I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that in the scale of most common fees published in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' of 7th February 1970 a prostatic resection operation in Tasmania is listed as attracting a. most common fee of $80 and that the fee for the same operation in Victoria is listed as J&gt;2J0. In view of the excessive difference between the two charges will the Prime Minister give Victorians free air fares to Tasmania, which would save the Government ยง100 an operation, or will he ask his colleague the Minister for Health, when he returns, to examine this situation and explain to the House why there is a difference of nearly 300% between the two costs? 
I rise to support the amendment. 1 believe it is a natural corollary of the motion before the House, lt seems totally unreasonable to argue that we should look at all the various causes associated with aircraft noise and possible solutions to these problems yet completely ignore anything to do with the siting of future aerodromes or the resiting of existing aerodromes. The fact of the matter is that we will be constructing new airports in Australia, particularly those in capital cities, in the years to come - possibly not next year or the year after but in future years. Also, we will be resiting some of the existing airports. If we are to bury our heads in the sand and say: 'Let us not worry about this; let us not look at these problems, as a Parliament, until such time as the departments, and the State governments, have made up their minds and the decisions are final and unalterable,' then we are devoid of all responsibility in connection with this matter. There is no evidence to suggest that it is better to ignore a problem than to face up to it. 
I believe the amendment, as it is phrased, will give this proposed committee the responsibility to report on this matter of the siting of airports. 1 do not believe it should do so in technical terms but I believe it should set guidelines as to the location or re-location of future major airports. I want to indicate what can happen where airport runways are placed in certain positions. This was not done recently and I do not suggest that this Government was to blame. The main runway at the Avalon airfield is located in such a manner that the Boeing 707 aircraft - in order that training routines such as turns, take-offs, circuits and bumps can be proceeded with - fly directly over the township of Lara. On either side of Lara are miles of open space. If this airport were being constructed now I would hope that the technical know-how that we have would make it definite that the runways would be located in such a manner that aircraft would avoid such a small built up area which is at this stage in an urban setting. New runways are to be built there. New airports are to be built in the future. I believe that this Parliament has some degree of responsibility to look at the problem of the siting of airports. 
I do not know whether the amendment gives enough scope, but I hope that the Committee - if not the Committee then the Government - will devise means by which the Parliament can set guidelines which will prevent the type of fiasco associated with the siting of the Tullamarine airport. There, the Victorian Government decided that it would allow houses to be built off the ends of the runways. It thus defeated any rationale that may have been created for retaining areas free from homes in the immediate proximity of the flight paths of various aircraft. There is another reason why we should be very careful about the siting of our major airports. Predictions have been made of the future activity at airports and there have been reasonably accurate predictions of the growth of our major cities. 
About a week ago on arriving at Essendon aerodrome I watched one of the jets which are now in operation moving down the runway. From the time it left one end of the runway until it arrived at the other end it was impossible to see the aircraft from directly behind it for the smoke from the exhausts. I understand that in the United States of America the operators of aircraft with certain types of engines have been warned that they will not be able to continue to operate the aircraft over major capital cities. This has not happened in Australia because I doubt whether anyone has the power to direct the airlines on such a matter. The fact is that tons of pollutants are being spewed out over our urban areas every day. As the airline traffic grows, as it most certainly will, we shall have to look for a possible cure for this problem. The Committee may well look at the problem of pollution while it is looking at the problem of aircraft noise. 
If the Government's attitude to the amendment in the past is to be taken as an example we could well say: This Committee is going to investigate aircraft noise and its recommendations will be completely separate, but any recommendations that may come forward in the future on the siting of airports are something else'. We could also set up a third committee in this 
Parliament - to see if we could get the maximum possible confusion - to look at the effects of pollutants from aircraft operations. Then we could receive three separate sets of recommendations. Alternatively, we could allow the one committee, composed of men who are very quickly becoming conversant with the various problems associated with aircraft noise and operations, to look at all the problems and bring back recommendations which could form guidelines in the future for this Parliament and of which the Department of Civil Aviation could take note. I hope the Department would take note of them. 
We have a choice. The honourable member for Cowper in his closing remarks referred to the cost involved. He said it would be extremely costly to re-locate the existing airports. I suggest that, irrespective of what we do in this field, it is going to be costly. But I believe that it will be less costly if we examine the problems of new airports, as suggested in the amendment, now before they are built than if, as the honourable member for Bradfield suggested, we look at the problems after the airports are built and then try to correct them. It is always easier and less costly to prevent a problem than it is to try to remedy it after millions of dollars have been expended. I support the amendment 

 - Mr Speaker, as the forms of the House do not preclude me from asking you a question without notice I direct a question to you in relation to accommodation in Parliament House. How many offices in Parliament House were allocated to private members of the House of Representatives during- the years 1958, 1960, 1962, 1964, 1966, 1968 and 1970? How many of these members were accommodated in offices in Parliament House on the basis of 1 per room, 2' per room and 3 per room during the same years? How many rooms were allocated to House of Representatives Ministers and their staffs in the same years? Would .you be good enough to seek similar information from the  President  of the Senate relative to that side of the building? 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has any approach been received from the Government of Victoria for Commonwealth assistance for the extension of standard gauge rail links to Victorian provincial centres. 
asked the Minister for 
External Territories, upon notice: 
What is the minimum rate of pay applying to native employees in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. 
Are there any minimum rate provisions or employment conditions applying to the employment of plantation workers' wives in domestic jobs. 
What is the minimum wage in the Territory for non-native employees. 
. asked the Minister for 
National Development the following question, upon notice: 
Were Commonwealth subsidies being paid to firms carrying out experimental oil drilling adjacent to the Barrier Reef. 
Are these subsidies to be continued if it is found that these operations could cause harm to the Reef. 
Has he suspended payment of subsidies until a full inquiry has been conducted. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Has he received a request from any State for amendments to the home care legislation passed last year. 
Will he consider taking steps to amend the relevant legislation to allow each local government body to appoint a social worker to cover all elderly citizens clubs in its area, instead of the present requirement that  a  social worker be appointed at each club. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion and Science upon notice: ls he able lo say how many persons in each 
State failed to obtain Commonwealth scholarships for 
universities, 
advanced technical colleges and 
secondary schools 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Have Commonwealth funds been made available to the Stale of Victoria for teacher training. 
What terms apply to these grants. 
Does the Commonwealth request any minimum standard of buildings and facilities. 
ls it a fact that female students at the 
Geelong Teachers College are prevented, for obvious reasons, from attending some classes which are conducted in men's toilet areas. 
If so, is there any action which the Commonwealth can take to relieve this disgraceful situation. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many United States Secret Service men or women were in Australia during the visit of the Vice-President of the United States. 
Did these agents act as police officers during the visit. 
Were they granted police powers by the Government. 
Under what circumstances can foreign nationals carry arms in Australian territories. 
Are foreign agents who act in a capacity, normally reserved for police officers required to prove that they have a comprehensive knowledge of Australian law and police practices. 
Were agents accompanying the Vice-President granted full diplomatic immunity or any other immunity from Australian laws. 
I ask the Treasurer a question. Has the Government suggested that increased interest rates on housing loans may be met by extensions of the period of payment of the loans? Would such a practice mean that there would be no alteration to the level of liquidity or to the levels of demand for building materials and services, which the Treasurer has indicated he is concerned about, but in fact would merely mean that persons who have negotiated loans and have on the basis of those loans built and occupied homes would have to pay over an extended period several thousand dollars in order to meet the increased interest rates without there being any short term effect on the economy? 
. One wonders what type of morality it is which permits people to stand self-righteously and criticise others while doing exactly the same thing. 
This scheme will cost the majority of Australian taxpayers a great deal more than they are now paying. In many instances it will cost them much more than the increase in fees referred to in the Bill. Many people who are unable to afford medical cover will be forced to contribute for the maximum cover or lose all benefits under this legislation. Although the cost of the scheme will increase, the services provided under the Bill will be not much greater. At least half of the increased costs will be paid in increased fees to doctors. Apart from persons with incomes of less than $48 a week, still no consideration is to be given to the ability of people to meet these commitments. Conversely, we still have the situation where the amount paid by a contributor will increase as his income decreases. In the case of a person whose income exceeds $32,000 a year the Com monwealth will pay, by means of tax deductions, two-thirds of the cost. The Commonwealth will pay nearly 10% of the contributions of a taxpayer whose taxable income is only slightly in excess of the minimum amount for subsidy as set out in the Bill. In effect this means that we are being asked to accept uncritically a scheme which will do little for most contributors, a scheme which will continue to cost those on the lowest incomes more than it costs those on the maximum incomes. 
I wish to deal specifically with one part of the Bill. It arises out of a statement made by the former Treasurer, the present Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  when presenting the last Budget. He was referring to assistance to persons whose incomes were under $39 a week. He said that all family units comprising at least 2 persons, except for those of pensionable age, would qualify for assistance. Subsequently, most likely because of the electoral shock suffered last October, the Government has decided to increase that figure of $39 to $42.50. It also has decided to give supplementary assistance to persons whose incomes are less than $45.50 and a lesser degree of supplementary assistance to persons whose incomes are less than $48.50. 
However, the terms used in the Budget Speech are incorporated in this Bill. A person, being a male, who is in excess of 65 years of age, or, being a woman who has attained the age of 60 years, is not eligible for any of this supplementary assistance. Married couples whose total incomes exceed $43 a week are excluded from the pensioner medical scheme and therefore must pay the full cost of insurance in a health scheme. Unlike those people who are under pensionable age, they will receive no assistance whatever from the Government. In other words, males over 65 years and females over 60 years who wish to cover themselves adequately by contributing to a medical fund must pay the full fees even though their private income may not exceed $43 a week, whereas a person under that age whose income is less than $48.50 a week will receive assistance under this Bill. I think that this is an anomaly. I hope it is an oversight on the part of the Government and I hope when the Minister answers he will indicate that it is an oversight and that the Government will amend this clause to provide that persons of pensionable age will be covered if their incomes are in fact lower than those provided in the Bill. 
One other matter that I should deal with, and that the Government should have dealt with, is the necessity under the existing pensioner medical scheme for pensioners to insure themselves if they want any form of assistance from specialists, if it is necessary for them to receive treatment other than in public wards of public hospitals or if they want operations performed by general practitioners. It is not possible in some areas of most States for pensioners to have treatment in public wards of public hospitals without travelling considerable distances. Therefore only those pensioners who have direct access to public hospitals are covered by the pensioner medical scheme. There are no provisions whatsoever in this Bill to give pensioners any assistance; they are totally excluded. This point has been raised in this House before, but I would like to know now how the Minister expects a pensioner living in Dimboola in Victoria, which has a bush nursing hospital, to obtain medical treatment when he is not allowed to make use of the hospital in that area. In some cases they must travel excessive mileages in order to arrive at a public hospital to obtain services. This seems to me to be an extreme discrimination against those persons who do not live in capital cities and it appears to me that the scheme has only been drawn up to assist only those who live in capital1 cities or other urban areas. It surprises me that members of the Australian Country Party have not been on their feet demanding that the scheme be extended to cover those areas which they profess to represent. 
The hour is late and there has been much debate on this Bill but I want to say - and I say it quite sincerely - that I hope that before the Government goes ahead with patching up what is in fact an outdated philosophy on health it will have another look at this Bill and the ramifications of its health policies. Health is too important for political dogma to be allowed to continue a system which does not give the level of service and does not provide the level of coverage that the Australian public is entitled to expect for the money that is being expended. I believe it is time that we had a responsible approach, and a responsible inquiry into all sections of our health services should be undertaken. AH alternatives should be examined and the inquiry should not be restricted merely to those alternatives which the Government wishes for political reasons to maintain. Such an inquiry should be conducted so that we could ascertain what is required. Although proof is not really necessary the validity of the proposals of the Labor Party at the last election would be clearly established. 
This Bil] is an attempt to bring into operation a health proposal which was put forward in panic during an election campaign, lt was not well thought out and it is quite clear that this Bill contains enough anomalous material to fill a number of volumes of Hansard. I do not believe any length of debate or any number of amendments will solve the problems. Some benefit will flow from this Bill and 1 am disappointed that because of this we have no alternative but to support the Bill, poor though it is. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
On how many occasions in the last year have Trans-Australia Airlines nights 406 and 410 been delayed owing to unavailability of aircraft. 
What was the reason for and extent of each delay. 
How many of these delays have occurred on Tuesdays. 
I wish to raise  2  matters, both of which are of concern and both of which directly affect Commonwealth employees. The first is related to the payment of invalid pensions and the conditions under which invalid pensions are paid to persons who are awaiting settlement by the Commonwealth of claims for workers' compensation. It has been brought to my notice by a specific case that where an invalid pension is paid to a person who has a workers' compensation claim pending, it is not normal for the Commonwealth to seek to recover the moneys paid in the form of an invalid pension, lt is normal for the Commonwealth to seek to recover moneys paid in the form of sickness benefits. In the case drawn to my attention, which involves workers compensation paid to an employee of the Department of the Army, the person concerned sought advice as to whether it would be necessary to repay amounts received by way of invalid pension. He was informed that it was not normal for the Department of Social Services to seek repayment of these amounts. I would imagine that the amounts involved in payment of invalid pension which were not considered recoverable would have been taken into consideration in the final settlement. 
Following settlement of the claim by the Commonwealth the Department of Social Services notified the person concerned that he had been illegally paid more than $900 in invalid pension and that this amount was recoverable and would be recovered by reductions in the levels of continuing pension to be paid to him. In other words the payment of $11 a week which that person was entitled to after settlement of the workers compensation claim was to be cancelled until a repayment of $900 had been made to the Department of Social Services. It is my considered opinion that when the Commonwealth settled this claim without pre viously advising the person concerned or his legal advisers that it would seek to recoup the amounts paid in invalid pension, which is not the normal practice in the case of persons in private employment, the Commonwealth acted improperly. I do not argue whether these amounts should or should not be recoverable but 1 contend - I think the House will agree with me - that if a person seeking compensation from a private employer does not have to refund amounts paid in invalid pension it is improper for the Commonwealth to seek repayment in the case of persons seeking workers compensation from it. The situation is that Commonwealth employees are placed at a very serious disadvantage visavis private employees and are in fact discriminated against. T do riot intend to pursue this mat er further at this stage. I hope that the relevant Ministers will examine it to make sure that Commonwealth employees enjoy the same rights in this area as other members of the community. 
The other matter I wish to raise is of considerable concern to employees of the Government Aircraft Factories in my electorate. The Minster for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  has indicated vaguely that proposals exist for rationalisation of the industry. What a beautiful word: It means nothing. But the whispers and rumours going through the industry - they have been going through it for some time - are that the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories will be merged in some way. Employees in the industry, aware of the Government's reputation in matters of this nature, are extremely concerned that any merger will mean that the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation will take over the Government's interest in the Government Aircraft Factories. If this happened there would be a grave risk that employees in the Government Aircraft Factories would find themselves out of jobs, out of the industry and lost to the industry forever. I hope that the Government will give an assurance that if a merger takes place in this industry in the name of rationalisation the Government Aircraft Factories will retain a controlling interest in any merged industry, because it is an industry which at this stage is engaged solely in operations of a defence nature, lt is an industry which can justify its existence only by defence needs. If the Government intends to merge these organisations in any way I ask the Minister to give an absolute assurance to the people engaged in the Government Aircraft Factories that their jobs will be protected. I believe that those jobs can be protected only by the Government's retaining control of the industry. 
Over a long period a lot has been said by various Ministers about seeking to maintain this industry but on many occasions opportunities to produce or assemble military or civil aircraft in Australia have been passed up. It is my understanding that when the Friendships were being purchased by Australia the Department of Civil Aviation suggested that it would be economically feasible for the Australian aircraft industry to assemble them, but the Government would not back such a proposal. If I am correct this was a short-sighted policy which has lost to an important industry numerous skilled operatives who cannot be replaced without extensive and long term training programmes. 
We do not appear to recognise the need to build up skills over several generations in an industry like the aircraft industry. If periodically those people who have developed skills in the industry are to be wiped out by retrenchment or the up and down nature of employment in the industry over recent years we will not have an industry if and when we require it - heaven forbid that we do - for national defence purposes. 
During the last war the Government Aircraft Factories did a magnificent job providing Australia with much needed aircraft. If we were placed in a similar situation again it is the Australian industry which would have to provide the basic maintenance and production facilities necessary to maintain Australia's aircraft needs. The outlook for the future is gloomy if we are continually to white ant the people who have built up skills in the industry over a number of years. It is ridiculous for the Government to retrench people in this industry at every opportunity. The industry at Avalon is currently employing not more than 50% of the people who were employed there 3 years ago. The retention of those skilled operatives is far more important than the money that has been saved by their retrenchment. It would be far better to retain these people in employment than to send millions of dollars down the drain on the Fill. 
I hope that the Government will take note of the first matter I have raised this morning because I believe that Commonwealth employees are being viciously discriminated against. I hope that some definite statement of Government policy will be made about the aircraft industry so that people engaged in the industry will have some confidence in the security of their employment. 
All remarks will be directed through the Chair. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Row many Australian Servicemen have died in Vietnam. 
What were the major causes of death. 
How many Servicemen were killed by other than direct enemy action. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is he aware that this year Victoria is faced with a Budget deficit of at least $25m? Is he aware also that the Premier of Victoria has offered at least $120m additional expenditure in election promises in the policy speech of the Liberal Party last night? Has the Prime Minister promised the Victorian Premier that if his Government is reelected the Commonwealth will provide additional finance to the State in order that these election promises can be redeemed, as has happened in the State of Tasmania? If this is so, will the Prime Minister advise the leaders of the other Parties participating in the State elections of this fact so that all Parties can assess properly the financial state of the Victorian economy? 
The motion that the Speaker's ruling be dissented from is, as has been stated, a very serious one. In this case it is a motion which has to be carried by this House for the protection of this House. Your ruling,  Sir, that  the amendment is acceptable, if continued as a precedent, will provide governments with an out every time there is a censure motion before the Chair. They will be able to produce an amendment of any description, substitute it for the censure motion, and prevent the Parliament from voting on the censure motion which is before it. I shall read the first portion of the amendment which was moved this morning by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr 
Patterson), and I would hope,  Mr Speaker,  that you would take note of it. It states:  and that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States . . . 
Now 1 shall read the first portion of the amendment which was moved by the "honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson),  lt states:  that this House does not believe thai there has been any failure on the part of the Government to honour any commitments. 
That is a direct negative of the first portion of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. There could not be any clearer negative, lt is a negative in actual words. The first portion of one amendment quite clearly states that the Go- vernment has failed to honour a commitment, and the first portion of the other amendment states that the Government has  not failed to honour a commitment. If your ; ruling is upheld,  Sir,  it  will mean that this House will have 2 amend nients before it - one totally negating the Other. 
The second point is that the proposition contained in the amendment moved by the "honourable member for Dawson would vindicate what the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  has said and it would indicate that this House believes that the honourable member for Farrer. acted in a proper manner and did hi fact give to the States undertakings which have not bean honoured. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey to the initial amendment, if carried, would in fact indicate to this House and to the public at large that the honourable member for Farrer did not know what he was talking about. I am interested to know how those people who support the honourable member for Farrer can now propose an amendment which indicates that the Government acted properly and that in fact the honourable member for Farrer acted improperly. I would hope that you,  Mr Speaker,  would consider that point. I would also hope that some of the hyenas opposite would keep quiet so that I can talk. On the basis of the first portions of both amendments I submit that under no rules of debate or any precedents that have been established in any democratic institution can the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey be accepted as a proper amendment to the initial amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. 1 shall repeat the first portions of the 2 amendments because I think that they are of paramount importance to the dissent motion. I believe that those honourable members opposite who wish this House to continue as a House of Parliament operating in a democracy in a democratic way should take note of what is contained in the first portions of the 2 amendments. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson states that the following words be added to the motion that the House take note of the paper:  and that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet lack the confidence of the House because they failed to honour a commitment made to the States by the previous Minister for National Development. . . . 
The first portion of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Casey states:  that this House does not believe that there has been any failure on the purl of the Government to honour any commitments.  1 submit that those portions of the amendments are direct negatives. I submit,  Mr Speaker,  that even at this late stage you should withdraw your ruling and obviate the necessity for mis House to continue with the motion of dissent from your ruling which, if carried, I think would be a tragedy for this House. If you do not reverse your ruling and if the House does not carry the dissent motion, I can only suggest that politics have overridden democracy in this House. 
The introduction of this Bill into the Parliament represents a major advance in the thinking of the Government. It is a great pity that the Government was not prepared to initiate this type of legislation a considerable number of years ago when it could have acted to enable far greater participation by Australians in the industrial development of this nation. At this late stage, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn),  there will be great difficulty in raising loans overseas at reasonable interest rates to promote the operations of this Corporation. But even at this late stage the Opposition welcomes the introduction of this legislation. As was pointed out by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  and as has been pointed out on many occasions both within and outside this House, it is a great pity that the Government did not arrive many years ago at the necessary state of mind relative to its economic judgment to bring in this legislation so that some of the basic components of our national industries could have been saved from take-overs by overseas companies. 
The prime example of Government neglect of the need to maintain Australian interests in industry is the Bell Bay aluminium undertaking which was set up as a joint venture by the Government of Tasmania and the Commonwealth of Australia at a time almost immediately prior to the great expansion in the Australian alumina industry. The Commonwealth chose to sell out its share of the venture to American companies with the claim that it was not able to provide the necessary capital for the expansion of this industry in order to allow it to develop to its fullest extent. This claim was completely hollow. The facts of the matter are that the Commonwealth Government did not wish to maintain its interest in that industry and was not prepared at that point of time to take the necessary steps to protect for Australia what is and what then was an important component of our national industries. It must be conceded to be a major victory for the Minister for Trade and Industry that he has been able to overcome the financial conservatism of many honourable members, especially of the Liberal Party, in order to bring this Bill before the Parliament. I think it is more a mark of recognition of his important bargaining power within the coalition than it is a mark of the Liberal Party's acceptance of the principles involved. 
This Bill, given the necessary support, will operate to the advantage - we hope, anyhow, - of Australian participation in Australia's future development. As 1 said before, it is a pit)' that such a corporation could not have been set up a long time ago. The honourable member for Balaclava indicated that he did not believe that basic statistical data and research material on which such a corporation could be set up were available. He did not believe that the Commonwealth had undertaken the degree of research which was required. When this Government came into office some 20 years ago there was a section of the Department of Labour and National Service which was responsible for inquiries into secondary industry- That section produced what is known as the GAP document. One of the first initiatives taken by the Government under the leadership of  Sir Robert  Menzies was to wind up that section because the Government did not want the embarrassment of statistical information being made available to the Australian people. We now find people of the same conservative economic point of view complaining that the information that this body and other bodies which then existed could have provided is no longer available. It would seem they are hoist with their own petard. 
The shortage of Australian investment capital is not as great as we would be led to believe. The facts are that certain research organisations have indicated that about 90% of all capital investment in Australia comes from Australian sources. The other 10%, unfortunately for Australia, has managed to take over most of the growth industries within our economy, and therefore has a position in our economy far in advance of the actual investments which have been made. This is a situation which could not be allowed to continue without some action being taken. In his second reading speech the Minister for Trade and Industry said that one of the prime purposes for the setting up of this Corporation is that with the growth of our gross national product the demand for consumer goods is such that our import requirements and the requirements to service overseas investment capital are growing but the burden of our export income is becoming so great that we will not be able to guarantee to meet these growth requirements in the future. I would like to deal briefly with one area in which our export income has been suddenly cut off largely because, I believe, of inaction by the Commonwealth Government in a field in which it has power to act. 1 speak of the ban recently placed on mutton exports from Australia to the United States of America and the continuing pressure against our other meat exports. This is an area in which considerable export income is available to Australia and it is income which has been jeopardised largely because of the inadequacy of the inspection facilities provided by the Commonwealth in our meat works. Meat inspectors are Commonwealth employees and as such are employed under conditions laid down by the Public Service Arbitrator and it is therefore within the power of the Commonwealth to act. 
There has been much criticism of this Bill because it will enable the Government to act in a limited field to encourage new industries. The point I want to make is that it will not be sufficient to pass a Bill of this nature unless we are also prepared to act to protect those export markets which we already have by providing adequate facilities to ensure that- the quality of our exports is up to the standards demanded by the receiving countries. The people who are of vital importance in the industry which I have just mentioned are the meat inspectors. There are not enough of them. The Minister indicated in this House the other day that he was aware of this problem. I wonder whether he is aware, and if he is aware why he does not act to correct the situation whereby after 12 months training a meat inspector receives $65 a week and after 7 years experience his salary is $82 a week. He is unable to obtain annual leave because there are not enough meat inspectors available for him to be replaced while on leave. He is not paid overtime under the same conditions as other people in the industry; He is not given time to clean up after his work as are others, and in addition he is given no time for a meal break. These are only basic things, but they are things which the Commonwealth Government, as the employer of these people, should be able to understand and correct. Apparently it is not prepared to correct them. Because of this there is a threat to an industry which is earning considerable export income for Australia. 
To some degree over a period of time, the Bill will relieve some of the problems which the Minister set out in his second reading speech - problems which are being created by the need for Australia to earn export income in order to service capital investment which has occurred in Australia over a number of years. This is a small measure, but it represents an important step forward in our economic thinking. There are a number of reasons why Australia needs not only a corporation of this nature but also a government with an imaginative approach to our economic problems. I think we should compare what is proposed in this organisation with what the Italian Government has done in promoting and assisting industrial development in Italy. The IRA is a major corporation which was set up by the Italian Government to promote secondary industries and to service industries in Italy. It is one of the most important organisations in the world industrially, lt operates in almost all fields of commerce and ensures that Italy has active participation in its own industries, lt acts also to ensure that employment is provided in areas where people are seeking work. At present the organisation operates in the fields of television and radio, motorways, airlines, shipping lines, telephone services, docks, engineering, manufacturing and steel works. It is one of the biggest corporations in the world. It was sufficiently large for the Italian Government to utilise its services to purchase the reserves of natural gas that were discovered in Italy and to ensure that those reserves were utilised for the benefit ot the nation. There is no indication in the Bill, or in anything that the Minister has said, that the Australian Government at this point of time is prepared to recognise the need for this type of Australian participation. 
I have considerable doubts whether the philosophy of the major party on the Government side has changed at all in relation to this type of legislation. I believe that the existing political situation has enabled this Bill to be brought into the House. I trust that the Board of Directors of the Corporation will be sufficiently independent of mind to avoid the political restrictions and constrictions which the conservative Treasury will endeavour to apply in order to prevent the Corporation from having any major influence within the economy. The Bill has the support of the Opposition because the Opposition believes that a corporation of this nature is absolutely necessary in our economic conditions as they exist now and as they have existed for many years. We are only sorry that no real effort has been made in other areas to examine exactly how else and to what extent we can participate in capital investment in Australian industry and in the furtherance of Australian industrial growth. 
We tend, as a Parliament, to ignore the problems which are being created by some of the social costs associated with the operations of our national economy. It has been stated by Professor Wheelwright in a paper - and I think others have said the same - that each migrant to Australia has a social cost of about $4,000. This may or may not be true but it is one of the things that this Parliament should consider. It would not be wrong, and it would not indicate any lack of support for our immigration problem, if a committee of the standing of the Vernon Committee were set up to inquire into the economic value and the economic cost of immigration to Australia and to make recommendations on any alterations that are necessary, for economic reasons, to our immigration policy. If, as has been claimed by the professor, we are spending about $4,000 on each migrant in social costs - not actual dollars - then it would not be a bad idea if we had statistical and economic data provided to show us the absolute value of immigration. I believe we need migrants at the rate we are getting them, and at the rate we can get them, but it may well be that in accepting the need for migrants we are overlooking some real economic facts. It would not do any harm for this Parliament to try to find out the true situation. 
The final matter to which I refer is the effect that overseas take-overs of major Australian industries has on our work force. It is true to say - I do not think that even the boards of overseas companies would deny it - that it is more difficult to get harmonious industrial relations in an organisation which is totally owned outside Australia and where, in the main, before even minor industrial negotiations can take place the Australian officers of that company have to contact an overseas board to get approval to negotiate. The overseas board, incidentally, may have little or no knowledge of prevailing conditions in Australia. lt may have little or no real understanding of the on the spot problems that confront employers and employees. These overseas boards are making decisions and are trying to engage in industrial negotiations which just cannot be done by remote control. Across the table is still the best way to negotiate matters between employers and employees. 1 believe that Australian participation in industry, with Australian directorates having the responsibility and power to negotiate with their employees, is one of the major aims which any government should be seeking, lt is an aim which would have real effect on improving industrial relations. 
I support the Bill. 1 hope that the Government appoints to the Board of Directors of the Corporation people who are prepared to undertake the aims which were set out by the Minister for Trade and Industry and which the Opposition hopes will be fulfilled. I sincerely trust that the conservative elements on the Government side who would seek to destroy this Bill by restrictions are not able to have their way. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Is 'the Minister aware of the extreme dis content among meat inspectors in Australian meat works who claim that lack of meal breaks, inability to obtain regular annual leave and other considerable disabilities, including a serious pay disparity with other persons working in meat works, are causing a serious lack of applicants for training in the positions of meat inspectors from persons likely to complete the course? Also, is he aware that only 1 in 5 of those who begin the course complete such training? As these are Commonwealth employees, will the Minister look into improving the pay and conditions of meat inspectors, providing them with the opportunity to take their annual leave and also allowing them permanency of employment under the same conditions as other Public Servants? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Have any doctors been excluded from (a) the Pensioner Medical Scheme, (b) the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme or (c) the Repatriation Medical Service. 
If so, who were the doctors excluded and what were the reasons for exclusion in each case. 
Have any doctors so excludedhad their previous rights restored. 
I give notice that at the next sitting I will move: 
That this House disagrees with the. announcement by the Prime Minister that Camp Hill will be the site for the new and permanent Parliament House and is of the opinion that the site should be Capital Hill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Do plans exist for merging the Government Aircraft Factories wilh the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation: if so, what are they. 
Will the  Minister ensure that in any  merger the Commonwealth Government will retain a controlling interest. 
Will the Minister guarantee that employees of Government Aircraft Factories will not be retrenched or downgraded because of arrangerrments arising out of any merger within the industry 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the statement by the Prime Minister expressing the Government's opposition to political interference in sport, will he undertake that his Government will not take action that would jeopardise the future staging in Australia of international sporting events, such as did happen when the Government demanded compliance with political requirements by visiting national teams when application was made to stage the world table tennis championships in Australia and subsequently forced the withdrawal of Australia's application and seriously affected Australia's staging of the world modern pentathlon championship? Is not the Australian Government's action in these matters similar to the action of the South African Government which places race discrimination on entry into its country for sporting events, as did the Australian Government on that occasion? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: (0 On how many occasions and for nhat reason have Australian exports of meat products to the United Slates of America been slopped or restricted during the past 5 years. 
What was the estimated cost lo Australia of these restrictions. 
Have any United States exports of primary products suffered similar temporary lass of access to the Australian market in the same period. 
It is disappointing that the Government has taken the attitude that it has to these amendments. The National Health Bill, as t was presented to the Parliament, was inadequate enough, but the fact that this House because of the guillotine provision was prevented from dealing with the Bill clause by clause is an insult to the Parliament. I believe that the Government should be ashamed of the fact that the Senate is able to amend the Bill and send requests back to this House. Some of the requests which have been made by the Senate and which the Government quite obviously is not going to accept would provide worthwhile benefits and in at least one or two cases real economies in the cost of medical treatment. If request No. 1 by the Senate for an amendment of the Bill and request No. 7, which relates to amending the Schedules, were accepted by the Government the present lottery system in relation to the treatment of one's eyes would be discontinued. At present if glasses are prescribed one receives nothing in the form of Commonwealth benefit. This is a totally unsatisfactory situation and one which should have been corrected by the Government by way of accepting the request for an amendment in relation to the services of ophthalmologists and optometrists. I do not think that this would have been unreasonable. I believe that it would have taken away the element of risk which exists at present in relation to the cost of treatment.I believe that it would have also removed what is quite obviously a tendency towards improper practices in order to obtain the Commonwealth benefit. 
I wish to deal also with request for amendment No. 2. It is quite obvious that the Government, by refusing to accept this request for amendment, is quite content to force dental surgeons into a situation where they must adopt a practice in relation to oral surgery which is more expensive than need be in order to give their patients an opportunity to obtain the Commonwealth benefit. The Government's policy is that procedures adopted by dental surgeons which are more simple and less costly because they can be carried out in a surgeon's own surgery are not worthy of attracting the Commonwealth benefit. I think that the 2 points which I have made are worthy of further consideration by the Government. 1 think it is a bad practice for a government to adopt to say to a profession: 'If you use a more expensive means of treatment we will provide some subsidy, but if you use a cheaper means of treatment, although it may be more efficient, we will not provide any insurance cover at our level for your patient, I think that that is a bad practice to adopt and one which the Government should be condemned for encouraging. 
Question put: 
That the requested amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7 be not made. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What was the value of imports from the United States in each of the last 5 years. 
What was the value of Australian exports to the United States in each of these years. 
What restrictions exist withregard to the entry of Australian exports to theUnited States. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has he any information regarding the current membership numbers of Communist parties in Australia. 
If so, what are those numbers. 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What increase in Commonwealth tax reimbursement to the State of Victoria will accrue in the next financial year under the existing formula. 
What will be the increase in Victoria's interest repayment liability to the Commonwealth in the next financial year. 
Has the Government of Victoria given any indication of the anticipated budget increase which will face that State in the next financial year because of the increased cost of labour, goods and services. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many plain-clothes police are employed in Commonwealth offices in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Do plain-clothes officers enter Parliament House without the permission of the Presiding Officers. 
Are any private security organisations employed to protect Commonwealth property in the A.C.T. 
What is the cost to the Commonwealth of any private security organisations employed on these duties. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a persona! explanation. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Have any requests been received for the inclusion of access to registered dental practitioners on the list of benefits available to holders of pensioner medical cards. 
asked the Minister for Health  upon notice: 
Has he or his Department conducted any investigations into the current unrest among Australian nurses. 
What action does the Commonwealth Government propose to take to ensure that nursing regains the standards desired by the nursing profession. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice: 
What is the average delay in the provision of private telephone services in each population centre with a population in excess of 20,000 persons. 
I rise to oppose the recommendation for a reduction in the number of members constituting a quorum. I do so not on the rather fallacious ground of how many honourable members should be present in the chamber during a debate and not on the fallacious ground of some honourable members running out of the toilet and coming into the chamber when they have heard the bells ringing because they thought a division had been called when in fact a quorum had been called for, but on other grounds. The fact of the matter is that if a quorum had been set at the figure of 25 the likelihood would have been that we would still have had as many calls for a quorum to bc formed. My recollection of the occasions when quorums have been called for in this chamber is that there have been very few honourable members present and only on a limited number of occasions would reducing the number constituting a quorum to the figure recommended by the Standing Orders Committee have changed the situation at all. The fact of the matter is that when the belts ring honourable members are expected to come into the chamber.  Lt  is the primary responsibility of honourable members to be in this chamber whenever they are required and if a quorum is required in order to enable the Parliament to operate it is their responsibility to be present. 
I do not think that there is any merit in the suggestion which has been made that it would make it easier for honourable members if the number required to form a quorum were reduced to 25 because they would avoid the responsibility of having to be in attendance so often. The Leader of the House  (Mr Snedden)  said yesterday that the maximum number of honourable members present during any division in the last 5 years was 115. 1 have not had time to check his statement, but, as far as my memory serves me, I should think that more than that number of honourable members would be present in the chamber when the  Speaker  and the  Chairman  of Committees are elected. J am fairly certain that on a number of occasions at least 120 members were present, but I have not checked the Journals. He also said that the minimum number was 66. I am certain that that number is incorrect because J was here when 51 members were present for a division, when 51 members were present for a subsequent division and when 52 members were present for a third division. Had Opposition members chosen not to vote on those occasions the sitting of the House would have been suspended for want of a quorum because the Government did not have a quorum in the House and the Opposition had disgracefully few members present. I do not want anyone to say that 1 am being biased. 
I might well do. I do not believe that the House should attempt to provide itself with Standing Orders which will enable the members to escape their parliamentary responsibilities. On one occasion prior to my becoming a member a sitting day of the House commenced at 5 a.m., with less than 30 minutes notice to members. That was a sitting day, not the commencement of a session. 
That is correct. The House adjourned at 4.30 a.m. and re assembled at 5 a.m. for the commencement of a sitting day of the Parliament. If the proposal is carried, this could take place whenever 25 members are present At least on the occasion to which  I  referred a decent number of members of Parliament had to be present in order to enable it to continue. The passage of legislation and the opening of the Parliament are governed by the necessity of having quorums. The Government Ministers and those from the major political parties who have been Ministers, have considered the maintaining of a standing order which prevents the suspension of the Standing Orders to be of such importance that unless an absolute majority of members is present and votes for the proposition the Standing Orders cannot be suspended. If it is considered necessary for an absolute majority to be present to suspend the Standing Orders, it is not an unreasonable proposition that at least an absolute majority be present when legislation is passed, even though they do not all vote for the legislation, as they are required to vote for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
If the proposal is carried, the number that would have to be present to form a quorum would be fewer than the number which at present constitutes the Commonwealth Ministry. That is considered to be an executive committee of the Parliament, yet fewer members could meet, form a quorum and enact legislation of any nature on behalf of the Commonwealth. The number necessary to form a quorum in this Parliament would be fewer than the number necessary to form a quorum in any other nation. The calling of a quorum in the House has been irritating on occasions. I might have called a quorum on one or two occasions. Unlike the honourable member for Malle  (Mr Turnbull),  I can remember at least one occasion when a quorum was called by a member on his side of the House. 
Someone said it. 
He did say it. A Government member called a quorum when a member on this side of the House was making his maiden speech. The point at issue in this debate is whether 25 persons, or one-fifth of the members of the Parliament, should constitute a sufficient body of opinion to represent in this House the people of Australia when legislation is passed. It has nothing to do with the number of members who stay in the House to listen to debates. If one likes to count the numbers in this House one will find that that is the true statement. It has nothing to do with whether people do or do not attend committee meetings. The bells can ring just as easily for divisions as they can for quorums, and they more often do. Therefore that is a fallacious argument; lt has no basis. Not one minute of this sessional period has been lost through the forming of quorums, and I would venture to say that less than 1 hour of the previous sessional period was lost through forming quorums. It seems to me that the only thing we are seeking to achieve here is a reduction which will enable the Parliament to meet and to pass legislation with a lesser number of members present in the chamber. Even when a quorum is called in this place honourable members go out again before the  Speaker  or the  Deputy Speaker  has sat down. So that is hardly a relevant argument. 
The only real, permanent effect of the changing of the size of a quorum would be in relation to the number of people who must be here when the House assembled in order legally to constitute the House; how many people must be here when the House assembled each day in order legally to commence the operations of the House; and how many people must be in the chamber and actually vote in order to validate legislation. They are the relevant things. The fact that people may be studying out in the corridors or studying in the chamber is totally irrelevant and unimportant. The only important thing is how many members are in here to vote when legislation is passed. In my opinion it would be a total disgrace to this Parliament and to honourable members if the stage was ever reached where a number of members less than the present quorum passed an important piece of legislation. 
-This is correct, but that does not apply to a Bill which is contested. If a Bill is not contested by honourable members it is passed by a consensus of opinion and not actually on a vote of this House. An important piece of legislation on which there is divergence of opinion in the community is entitled to the respect of the Parliament and the level of the respect it receives and has received in the past from the Ministry. The important thing is that under the proposed change legislation could be passed with 25 members of the Parliament present. If 14 members voted for a measure they could pass it. 
It might be contested if they were here. When the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill was passed during the last sessional period 51 members were present. Had the number required for a quorum been lower, it could as easily have been passed with 31 members present. 
That is bad luck. It is one of the penalties of having 26 Ministers who do not want to come in. I am not worried about that. Ministers have other responsibilities and problems, but I do not think that is a reason for reducing the quorum. When the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill was passed 51 members of this House were present. Under the Standing Orders as they exist at the moment and with the contingent notices of motion on the notice paper, with 51 members present - it could as easily be 31  -  a Bill could be brought into this House and passed. That would be legal under the Standing Orders. The danger is that the situation could easily be reached where the inability to attain an absolute majority could be overcome by Ministers moving contingent motions. Someone will always be found who is prepared to manipulate the Standing Orders or a situation. The contingency motions are an example of this. Such action is very convenient but it completely by-passes the meaning and spirit of the Standing Orders. 
If this proposal is adopted the situation may be reached where on an important piece of legislation someone may wish to by-pass the Standing Orders. It may well be that all the members who were absent were paired, and they may have good reasons for being absent. It was only by an accident of fate that I happened to be here to vote on the last night of the last sitting period. So, I do not claim to be pure in respect of that matter. 1 could not obtain a pair, so I was here. That was all there was to it. I was one of those who did stay. By the time I obtained a pair I had missed my aircraft; so I had to stay. That is just a fact of life. But the facts also are that members have obtained pairs and left and that under the present Standing Orders it is possible to pass legislation with barely a quorum present, ft is possible to bring in legislation and pass it through ali stages in this chamber under those conditions. 
I believe that it would be wrong to consider this matter purely on the basis of the personal inconvenience that is caused by calling honourable members into the chamber occasionally, when someone decides that he will annoy the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  or someone else. 1 do not think that is a relevant matter. I do not think it is a very important matter in the life span of this Parliament or any other parliament. The important point is that the Parliament must retain at least a semblance of responsibility. I believe that one-third of the members is not too many to demand be present to pass important legislation or to open and operate the Parliament. 
I rise to support the proposal of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that a parliamentary inquiry should be conducted into the terms under which the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement will be renegotiated next year. I do so because I think a very narrow view of housing is being expounded by the Commonwealth Government. In fact, we have reached the stage where the only consideration in relation to housing which is evident in Government policy is how much money will be spent on it; how much interest will be charged; and how much can be extracted from young families in order to meet repayments over ever-extending periods. I believe that there is more to housing than this. I believe there is more to Commonwealth responsibility than this. And this is not a new view to be put before this Parliament. 
Provision was made in the initial Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement that certain allocations of money had to be spent on recreation and community facilities. No such provision now exists in the Agreement with the result that some of the housing projects which have been constructed and are being operated by State authorities with Commonwealth money are an absolute disgrace to our society and will cause our society far more problems than would the total failure to provide housing. I think that is a fair statement. As early as 1945 the urgent need for the provision of housing was brought to the attention of the Parliament. A report was prepared that year for the then Minister for the Post War Reconstruction and presented to the Parliament. Despite the fact that at the time pressure on the nation's resources was far greater than it could conceivably be considered to be today, provision was made in the recommendations of that report that as a matter of urgent consideration recreation and community facilities should be constructed with housing projects. I would like to quote 2 passages from that report - I do not have time to quote any more. I will later ask leave to have the report incorporated in Hansard because the report was made to the Parliament at a time of austerity and as a result only 1 copy is available in the Bills and Papers Room. Members cannot peruse this copy at their leisure because of the obvious  value of the single copy that is available. The section of the report dealingwith the summary of recommendations has this to say about the activities of the Commonwealth Housing Authority. 
to examine proposedhousing projects where Commonwealth financial assistance is desired to ensure that the plans comply with Commonwealth standards for town planning, community facilities and housing; 
I think where large sums of Commonwealth money are involved it might not be a bad idea to have some guidelines for the allocation of Commonwealth funds. Quite obviously some of the recommendations have become out of date by the passage of time and some have been covered by legislation. 
In another section of the report dealing with minimum community standards we find that the following provisions recommended in any new housing estate: 
Shops (to provide day-to-day needs); play areas, infant health and pre-school child welfare centres; meeting hall; and schools. 
The report also recommends under the heading 'Education and Culture' that urgent needs include: 
Kindergartens and day nurseries; 
Club and meeting rooms; 
Small halls for use as little theatres, lecture halls and space for art and museum exhibitions, orchestra, band, etc.; 
Libraries, including childrens section. 
Under the heading 'Recreational' the report states: 
small equipped play areas, located within close distance of dwelling; 
children's playgrounds, equipped and supervised; 
playing fields for field games for youths and adults; 
gymnasia; 
swimming facilities; 
youth centre, including rooms for indoor sports, club activities, handicrafts and music; 
I think that these requirements are as relevant now as they have ever been. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard 2 sections of the report. 
Part XVI. Community Facilities. 
Earlier tonight we heard a speech by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  which I think was a disgrace to this Parliament, a disgrace to himself and a disgrace to the electorate he represents. Never has this Parliament been subjected to so many deliberate misrepresentations, half truths and untruths than we heard in the first 15 minutes of his speech. During that period, in fact during his entire speech, he ignored almost completely the problems of the industry he purports to represent in this place and sought to distort facts relating to unrest and law and order in this country. I suggest that that was done for one reason only, that is, to try to promote unrest for political gain. I accuse all Government supporters of that because it obviously is true. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  may well laugh. During the last session we heard for 2 days Government members one after the other trying to incite violence during the Moratorium Campaign. In some parts of the country, farmers were misled into thinking that the tears from their members when they failed were caused by early autumn rain when in fact they were crying over their failure to incite violence. I think that this sort of humbug is a disgrace to this Parliament and a disgrace to the Government which is using it as a political gimmick. 
We heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  state today that he will be introducing strong legislation in this respect. They were good, noble, fighting words. In 1961, in this place amendments to the Crimes Act were guillotined through the Parliament because they were a matter of major national urgency! The whole structure of our society depended on the passage of those amendments that night! Not 1 person has ever been charged by the Government under any of those amendments. Those amendments were a whole lot of windowdressing and hogwash designed to create hysteria. 
-In 1967, a Bill was passed through this Parliament-- 
if the honourable member for Sydney will wait, he may make his own speech later. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. 1 ask: In view of the Government's announced intention to stay bankruptcy proceedings against primary producers in drought areas, will the Prime Minister inform the House what action the Government intends to take to protect the position of the business people and creditors in country towns who are bearing the financial load of providing what are in effect compulsory, non-interest bearing, long term loans which could result in their bankruptcy? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What orders for the textile requirements of the Defence services have been placed with Australian mills this year. 
Have textile orders been reduced substantially compared with recent years. 
If so, is the Minister able to say whether this reduction is causing a threat to employment in some textile mills. 
Are reduced orders a result of reduced requirements or are they caused by an increase m the proportion of requirements being obtained from outside Australia. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many senators and members of the House  of  Representatives (a) having served in three Parliaments or having served 8 or more years, retired other than by electoral defeat with less than 12 years' service at 60 years of age or older, (b) have served more than 20 years in the Parliament and (c) have retired other than voluntarily after having served in either three Parliaments or for 8 years or more in the age groups (i) under 30 years, (ii) 30 to 34 years, (iii) 35 to 39 years, (iv) 40 to 44 years, (v) 45 to 49 years, (vi) 50 to 59 years and (vii) 60 years and over. 
This proposal is for extensions to Avalon Airport. This is in my electorate. Whilst there is some commercial advantage on a short term basis to some people in my electorate from this proposal, I think that, on a long term basis, the adoption of this report and the construction of these facilities would have an extremely damaging effect on the future development of the area. I think that that far outweighs any short term' benefits which may accrue. The last set of figures which I obtained from the then Minister for Civil Aviation - the present Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  - indicated that at Avalon airfield 41,000 aircraft movements occurred in one year. The report indicates that at the present time the airfield is capable of accepting 25 movements an hour. Qantas Airways Ltd has 12 landings and 12 takeoffs an hour, which is 24 movements an hour. lt is proposed to extend the capacity of the airport so that 38 movements an hour can take place, and it is also proposed to strengthen the runways to take Boeing 747 aircraft and, as also mentioned in the report, Concorde aircraft. 
The Department of Civil Aviation, in referring this matter to the Public Works Committee at such a late stage, has obviously tried to create  a  situation in which there can be no alternatives. Most likely it has successfully done this. But the facts of the matter are that the Department and the Minister were aware 2 years ago that this development was to take place. In an answer to a question I asked the then Minister he indicated that for some time after the arrival of Boeing 747 jets it was expected that training operations would be carried out at Avalon. The report indicates that the new facility at Avalon will be a temporary one that will operate for about 5 years. If this is so, it is still unsatisfactory, because both international commercial jets and the domestic jet fleet will be carrying out their training operations from an airfield which, despite what the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  says, is in  a  built-up area and is so located that, according to the experts of the Department of Civil Aviation, training is not possible on flight paths which do not take the aircraft directly over the townships of Lara and Little River or very close to them. If we increase the number of aircraft operating in the area and the rapidity with which those aircraft operate, we are automatically militating against the future development of the area and asking those people who have built their homes or who are building their homes in the area to accept a situation which no person should, if it is avoidable, be asked to accept. 
I believe that the part of the report which criticises the Department for its tardiness in development is well warranted criticism. It is obvious to everyone concerned that to spend $6.4m on temporary extensions to an airfield in an unsatisfactory position, thereby causing serious inconvenience and retarding development in an area, is  a  very poor way to spend Government funds when, according to the report, for the expenditure of something in excess of $15m a proper training facility could be provided which would for many years adequately serve the airlines of Australia and the international operator, Qantas. No-one is so stupid that he wants to retard the progress of Australian airlines. We do not want to do that. But to place a training facility in  a  centre which has within a radius of 15 miles from it about 150,000 people - within 5 years there will be in excess of 200,000 people, most of whom will at times be under the flight paths and some of whom will be constantly under the flight paths of training aircraft - is an act of criminal negligence by the Department concerned. 
I believe that this House should censure the Government, not the Public Works Committee because it was placed in the unenviable position of being given no chance to consider the proposal because it was presented with  a  timetable which made it impossible for it to bring down a recommendation which really fitted the situation. I realise, and I think anyone who knows the area concerned realises, that there are people who, because of their employment or because of their prospects of employment in the future, consider this development a worthwhile proposition. But having heard at close range the Concorde flying, and having seen the outcries in the British papers over the noise levels of the Concorde, I can assure the House that the 120,000 or 130,000 people in the Geelong area will not be very happy to find that they are likely to be guinea pigs in the training operations of this aircraft in Australia. The Concorde is  a  high noise level aircraft. It may well be that in the future the noise levels will be reduced. 
It is not satisfactory to place the training facilities for the Concorde, the Boeing 747 jets and the Australian commercial fleet in close proximity to a rapidly growing community which, according to the State Planning Authority in Victoria, is part of the urban development. It is zoned for urban development. To place  a  training facility in this position in the manner in which it has been done is an act which should be condemned by this Parliament. The honourable member for McMillan, who is carrying on  a  conversation, would complain if the facility were put at Warragul or Beaconsfield, but it is to be a long way from his area. The present circuits take the aircraft almost directly over Lara and almost directly over Little River. Lara has a population of about 3,000 people and Little River most likely has a population of something less than 300. But the flight paths are unable adequately to avoid the town of Little River.  Mr Doyle  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  represent this area. Despite the fact that Little River is not more than  i  mile in length and not more than 200 yeards in width, these aircraft in their training operations have to pass almost directly over this town. According to the technical experts, they cannot avoid it. The Department can do what it likes. Tt can take note of the report, but if the training programmes are such that this cannot be avoided, the people in these areas will have to put up with the additional noise of a minimum increase of 20 per cent in flight operations in their area. 
The other thing of which I think this House should be aware - 1 raised this up to 2 years ago in this House - is that these aircraft fly at heights of only 1,500 feet and lower. They pass quite often directly over St Laurence Park, which is an elderly citizens housing area under the control of the Brotherhood of St Laurence. The constant noise is extremely disturbing to these people as it is to other people in the area. With the advent of these other aircraft - I am not in a position to know exactly what the training requirements will be and I do not know whether the Minister for National Development, who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation, is able to inform us - it is not unreasonable to expect that the training requirements of the Concorde aircraft or the Boeing 747s will take in a considerably wider circuit than the one presently used by the Boeing 707s. 
Within 4 miles of the outskirts of the township of Lara and much closer to the normal flight paths are the present northern areas of the city of Geelong. Quite properly the Shire of Corio, which covers this area, has protested against this development. Most likely it is concerned both because this airport is being developed and because it does not get any rates for the land on which the airport is built, but that is beside the point. The fact is that 
Geelong is developing in a northerly direction towards the township of Lara. In 5 years time a great percentage of the flight paths of these training aircraft will be over highly developed urban areas. I suggest that it is totally unsuitable to develop a training airfield in such a location, and all I can say is that the lack of foresight and planning by the Department in preparing for the Boeing 747s and the entry into the Australian international air operations of the Concorde and other supersonic aircraft is lamentable, to say the least. 
It may well be that the Department has made recommendations and that they have been rejected as policy matters by the Treasury or some other Government department. This may well be the true situation. Irrespective of the reason, we are throwing $6im down the drain on development to provide a facility that will destroy the development and peace of mind of a considerable number of residents in my electorate and adjoining electorates. 
I believe that the Parliament should censure severely the Government or the Minister concerned, whichever happens to be totally responsible, for the complete lack of foresight and planning which has led to this situation and to the recommendations of the Committee. The people of this area are entitled to a full and proper explanation from the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  as to why, when it was known at least 2 years ago that this facility was to be developed, the Government did not carry out an investigation instead of waiting until such time as it was impossible for new facilities, if they were found to be necessary, to be developed in time for the training programme to begin. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. Is he aware that some large Victorian private hospitals have substantially increased their charges for intermediate and private wards in recent weeks, in some cases by more than 25 per cent? One of the major hospitals in my electorate now charges $140 a week for intermediate wards. Is the Minister aware that these charges are not covered by existing hospital benefit schedules? Will he inform the House when the new schedules, which were promised to the hospital benefit funds last July, will apply? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The matter before the House is one on which I think members on both sides of the House have expressed concern over a considerable period of time; it is one which needs total and comprehensive treatment. There are provisions in the Bill before us which were presented to this House last year and which, had the Bill been proceeded with at that time, would have become law on the first day of July 1970. It is significant in the present circumstances that the proposed amendment which has been circulated to honourable members does not specify a date of application but in fact specifies the day on- which the Bill shall receive royal assent. I think that this is significant in view of the present economic policies which the Government is pursuing in order to cut down on expenditure. 
The facts are that no specific date for the operation of the Bill is slated in the amendment. I was making the point - and I still make the point - that if the Bill is not passed or is not given royal assent for some considerable time any expense incurred under the Bill must be without the proper authority. 
Mt Lynch - If you read the second reading speech you will find that we do not need the Bill to implement the programme. I repeat that you have missed the whole point. 
The Minister for Immigration can explain this in the committee stage. 
I have read the second reading speech. I want to make one or two points and 1 want them to be quite clear. The Bill provides for expenditure on migrant education in both State and private schools. Also, it provides for adult education. However, the second reading speech does not indicate that the facilities for the leaching of children should also be used wherever practicable for the teaching of adults. This would seem to be a fairly reason-able usage of materials provided for a special purpose. The Bill also makes no mention that 1 can find - the Minister may be able to correct this - of the provision of additional facilities in State schools to provide this teaching capacity. I know of no school in my electorate, which has a high density of migrants, where additional classroom facilities exist for the provision of a special English class for migrants. It may be that by cramming children into other rooms, by using rooms for a purpose for which they were not intended, or by using school library facilities, accommodation can be made available. But, in the definitions contained in the Bill, capital equipment specifically excludes buildings. 
In the most densely migrant populated section of my electorate, Bell Park, a State technical school has existed for the last 4 years and, at this stage, it has no permanent structure whatsoever. This is an area where the children are more in need of this type of instruction and this type of basic English training than in other areas where better facilities are provided. The State education departments have been directed already to cut down their programmes for the next financial year. They have been told already that they should cut down on teacher training. If. in 4 years, an education department cannot construct even one permanent technical school building in an area of great need. I hardly think that it is likely to be able to provide classroom facilities to give effect to the provisions of this Bill. 
A  number of Bills which have been passed by this Parliament in recent years depend on the co-operation of and the expenditure of money by Slate governments to operate successfully. Victoria, which has a Government of the same political complexion as the Federal Government, has refused to co-operate with respect to many of these Bills because it claims, rightly or wrongly, that it cannot afford the expenditure required to implement the proposals contained in those Bills. Thus, any benefit which may exist in the Bills just does not apply. The success or Otherwise of this Bill will depend on the level to which State education departments are prepared and are able to co-operate. 1 am quite sure that the departments will wish to co-operate and will do everything possible to enable the Bill to succeed. T am not sure whether the State treasuries will do likewise. Their priorities may or may not be different. Rightly or wrongly the State governments feel that a far greater expenditure should have been forthcoming from the Commonwealth Government over an extended period on education, housing and other social activites connected with the establishment of migrants here. 
Now, the migrant child of school age quite obviously is at a very distinct disadvantage on arrival in Australia and any new facilities that will give that child a better chance to proceed at a normal rate in the early periods of its education after arrival here will be welcome. The migrant child of secondary school age has an almost impossible task because that child lacks the cultural and historical background to cope with our education system. As that child has not passed through our primary school system he or she is in a very serious situation. These children need help. They need help quickly. 
J wish to deal now with another area covered in the Bill, adult migrant education. It is obvious to any member who has a large migrant population in his electorate that the female adult is very slow normally to learn the language. The cause for this largely is that whilst the husband goes to work and is forced to learn the language, the wife is able to converse with those around her in the language  rf  the country of her birth. Unless there are very young children who in many cases do not learn their native tongue, the need for high pressure involvement to learn a new language is not nearly as urgent for the female as it is for the male who must go to work and therefore has to have some smattering of English. Migrants mainly find unskilled jobs and if they are prepared to work under conditions which most trade unions would not accept they can earn high incomes. But they are seriously disadvantaged. 
The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  said that he was disappointed with an immigration agreement that we had wilh Yugoslavia because of the small number of skilled people who were coming to Australia from that country. He said that, under that agreement, Australia was promised higher numbers of skilled people. My understanding is that the authorities in Yugoslavia also are rather upset about our failure to recognise the trade qualifications of migrants. They claim that they can send to Germany people whose trade qualifications will be recognised in that country and that those people will be able to work there at their trades. Germany is far closer to their homeland than Australia. Yet, the skills of Yugoslavs sent to Australia are not recognised and migrants cannot practise their trades here. They leave their homeland as tradesmen and arrive in Australia as unskilled workers. This is not something which can be altered by the provisions of this Bill, but I think that it is something which should be clarified. Countries will not send skilled people to Australia or advise them to come to Australia if, on arrival in Australia, they are classified as unskilled. I do not believe that any country can be expected to do this especially if an alternative is available, and apparently it is available in Western Europe. 
I wish to deal with one or two other aspects of the Bill which concern me.  1  hope that the Minister, if he has not done so already, will clarify these points.  1  mentioned one a moment ago. This is the use of school buildings. The Bill provides that equipment, etc., will be provided in State or independent schools as the Department sees necessary. The Bill provides also - apparently separately - for adult education. With respect to laboratory type equipment especially, I believe that this equipment should be supplied to independent or state schools on the basis that it will be made available for use in adult education courses outside normal school hours. This would seem to be a reasonably economic use of a facility. I would think that in most of the larger towns outside the metropolitan area high schools or primary schools - in the case of adults most likely it would be high schools - would be as central and as useful as anywhere else in a community as places at which to provide adult education courses.  1  hope that we will not see taking place in the expenditure of this money a duplication of facilities which may or may not help but which would be less likely to help. 
In some areas, notably in the inner city suburbs and in some specific areas of the larger provincial cities, there are very heavy concentrations of migrants. In these areas normally there are also very heavy concentrations of young children, ft would be of great help if pre-school children could be given the facilities to provide them with basic teaching in English to bring them at least up to the level of Australian children in their community. In the inner metropolitan areas where high rise flats and such like are developing, I hope that the educational standard of migrant children will be raised to a level where opportunities to obtain Commonwealth scholarships, etc., later in their education will be available. 
A child which gets to primary school without a basic knowledge of English and without a fairly good understanding ot our culture does not obtain a Commonwealth scholarship later in life. That is one of the statistical facts which can be seen by examining to whom and where Commonwealth scholarships are granted. These are 2 matters that I raise. It could be very effective at the pre-school level if English training of a primary nature could be given to children,  f  well remember the case of a young German child who lived near us. His grandmother came to Australia. He spoke about 4 words of German and about  3  words of English in each sentence. Until he went to kindergarten where practically all children spoke English, his English language, to say the least, was somewhat mixed up. But he will go to school because his brothers have gone to ? choo I and he will progress in the normal fashion through our schools. In areas where there are large concentrations of migrants - there are areas where  70  per cent,  80  per cent and up to  90  per cent of the population are migrants - the ability to mix or the value of mixing with children who talk English does not exist, and therefore the migrant children are severely handicapped when they begin school. If they arrive at the preparatory stage of schooling without a background knowledge of English, they do not catch up in later life. There is one other matter in the Bill which I have not heard anyone mention, and that is citizenship training. I am not exactly sure what is meant by this phraseology. 
I do not know .so much. I have been at functions where they have been told to vote the other way. Those functions were mainly paid for by other political parties, and I suppose it was their right to say that. But the point is that citizenship is a very controversial subject. Migrants arriving in Australia will not get a vote for  5  years after their arrival unless they are English migrants, who usually can speak English. 
We can go to some parts of the British Isles - I will not specify which parts - and when we start talking to the population we are not sure whether we can talk English or whether they can talk English, but certainly we do not talk the same language. There is provision in the Bill for citizenship training. Migrants other than British migrants will not have a vote in Australia for 5 years after their arrival. So 1 would hope that citizenship training deals largely with conditions which exist in Australia. The type of social struct rues and prejudices which exist in Australia should be part of the programme in which migrants are given instruction. 
I find, as I think most honourable members would, that migrants, especially newly arrived migrants, have very exaggerated ideas of what they can expect from our social welfare structure. They do not appreciate fully the type of health scheme we have. Many of them come here expecting the type of health scheme they had in their own countries. These are matters on which I think migrants should receive some pre-education or preinstruction. I do not envisage a booklet which is written in English or their own language and which most likely is couched in terms that they cannot understand anyway. Some pre-instruction in these areas would be of great benefit to the migrant and would help to make him happy on arrival in Australia and make him want to stay. I am of the opinion that most migrants who want to leave Australia decide before they even arrive here or in their first few weeks in Australia that they are not going to stay. Tt is in these areas that I think there is great scope for improvement in our public relations with migrants coming to Australia. 
The Minister may correct me if I am wrong, birt my understanding is that persons who have left Australia and returned to their own country cannot be used on ships as instructors for migrants unless they have been out of Australia for at least 2 years. 
1 have letters to that effect, but it does not matter. I think that the Department wherever possible should avail itself of qualified people who have returned to their homeland and who are coming back to Australia and should use their knowledge of the country for the instruction of other migrants. For instance. English migrants especially who are returning to Australia are better able to explain the benefits that migrants wilt receive in Australia or what goes on in Australia as compared with the position in their own countries. They have a better knowledge of the circumstances from which a migrant comes than do even qualified Australians. These are only minor things but I think they are important to migrants. My experience, as 1 said before, is that most disillusioned migrants are disillusioned before they get here. The less time there is between a person leaving Australia and being used as an instructor the more comprehensive and contemporary will be the advice that he gives. Anyone who left Australia more than 2 years ago and who is coming back today would obviously be giving wrong advice because the situation has changed so greatly. He may even think that the Government still has a majority of 42 in the House of Representatives. 
The Opposition has moved an amendment which I believe expresses the situation which should exist, and I hope that the House will carry the amendment. But the Bill does go some way towards providing the types of facilities which are and which have been for a number of years needed not only by the migrant population but by many hundreds of thousands of culturally underprivileged Australians, especially those in the centres of our great cities and those who will be crowded into the 1975 slums which are being built with Commonwealth money today. 
1 wish to raise a matter which  I  think is one of the most important and urgent for the Government to reconsider. Over a period  of  time now there has been a very deep and considerable public concern at the treatment meted out by the Government to a section of the community which has no way of coping with the problems of increasing prices and has no way  of  coping with the problems which are reducing their standards of living continually.  I  am referring to those persons who are dependent for their total income on base rate pensions. These people were graciously given a 50c increase in the 1970 Budget. Subsequently economic circumstances have changed to such an extent that that increase has been completely wiped out by actions of State governments and by actions of this Government, and the pensioners are left with a standard of living which is substantially lower than it was prior to the last Budget. 
The concern expressed by the Government in relation to inflation and other matters is shared by most people in the community. However, it is not much help to those people who have insufficient income and who have no way of increasing their income unless the Government is prepared to do this for them. It is impossible for a person dependent on a base rate pension to live at the standard of living to which he is entitled or at the standard of living which the Prime Minister described last year as frugal comfort. In my opinion 'frugal comfort' means slow starvation, but it is a nice way of putting it. 
Although it has been indicated outside this House and to some extent inside the House that the Government is not prepared to increase base rate pensions, I again raise this matter, because unless something is done now pensions will be even further behind wages and salaries by next October. The Government may decide to increase pensions in the nest Budget, but at the moment there is no firm indication that it will do so. If something is not done now hardship will befall these elderly people who have worked all their lives and who quite often, through no fault of their own, are not able to cope with the cost increases which have occurred in the postwar period. If a person who was fortunate enough to have worked in the 1930s could have saved every penny that he earned - this would have been very difficult - it would have taken him between 3 and 4 weeks to have saved 1 week's pension at the current inadequate rate. So an unskilled person who was working for wages during that time would not have sufficient savings now to enable him to cope with the inflated costs. A suggestion to the contrary is a dream rather than a reality. 
Revaluation of residential properties has recently taken place in Victoria. This has affected those pensioners who were able to purchase homes in earlier times, mainly at very low prices. A lot of the homes, whilst adequate for the needs of these people, are not what we would describe as replicas of Buckingham Palace. These homes have been valued on the basis of rentals that are received by some other person in a similar area and rates have gone up by as much as, and sometimes in excess of, 100 per cent. There is no way in which these people can cope with this increase. Similarly, the Victorian Housing Commission has increased its charges for pensioners living in special accommodation provided for them by an amount which is equal to the total increase and in many cases greater than the total increase in pensions provided by last year's Budget. 
The Prime Minister in a statement outside the House said that he did not consider that the basic cause of inflation was consumer demand, lt is also true to say that, although no-one on the Government side mentions it when he is talking about increased productivity, there is no consumer product in Australia today which is not being produced in sufficient quantity. Perhaps the farmers may say that their products are in short supply. They are not. They are in over supply. One of the results of increased prices which will continue to affect living standards of pensioners and others is that, whilst goods are available to be bought, pensioners cannot afford to purchase them. They do not have the cash. 
Increased pensions would not mean a great increase in Government expenditure. A 50c increase would increase annual Goverment expenditure by $30m, but an increase of that amount would be totally inadequate. Nevertheless this example illustrates the amount of money we are talking about. 1 have no doubt that if the price of the F1 1 1 went up next week, even though we will never get the aircraft and it is doubtful whether it will ever fly, we would find the money to pay for it without one second's thought. If Britain devalued her currency tomorrow, does any member of the Government seriously suggest that we would not find the funds to compensate the primary industries of this country for the losses they would incur? lt would be found overnight without one suggestion that the money was not available. There would bc no problems at all. 
But these people, who are the hardest hit in our community and whose ability to' cope with' increased costs is totally nonexistent, are deliberately denied by the Government, as a matter of policy, any substantial increase in their income. They are being asked to pay the price of the inability of the Government to cope with its economic responsibilities. Members of the Government parties stand in their places day after day and- say: 'lt is wages that are the trouble'. But when the Arbitration Commission, made its recent decision it made it on the basis of price increases which had already taken place. The decision had nothing whatever to do  with future price increases. 
There is no suggestion at all from any member of the Government parties that those who increase their profits irresponsibly, or those who increase their profits in order to finance the types of capital works which the Prime Minister seems to find objectionable at the moment, should come under the control of the Government. They are the Iilywhites or the candonowrongs of our community. The pensioners do not build big office blocks. They do not build new motels. They do not have any effect on this section of the economy. But they are the ones who are being made to suffer the most because of the Government's refusal to accept its responsibilities. The Government refused to accept its responsibilities last year, and it is compounding the sin by continuing to do so. I suggest that if it is at all possible for the Government to recognise its error and to recognise the serious situation that exists in many cases it should do so. 
I am not talking about the pensioner who has a private income. I am talking about the pensioner who is totally dependent on the base rate pension and who has no other source of income. I understand that such pensioners represent about 70 per cent of all base rate pensioners in the community. These people cannot reduce their standard of living, further without seriously affecting their health and their ability to continue living in our community. 
If the Government wants these people to live out the rest of their lives in semistarvation and moral degradation and to become people who are not able to stand up with pride as real citizens of our country, why does it not come out and say so directly instead of trying to create a situation which should not exist in a prosperous country such as Australia and which need not exist if the Government faced' up to its responsibilities? 
I support the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. I do so for one reason. This House has extremely limited powers with relation to the decisions which most affect the nation. This is one way in which this House can express an opinion on a matter of supreme importance to a substantial section of the Australian community. I believe it is time this House took the opportunity to express its opinion on the failure of the Government to deal with the very pressing matter of social services. All honourable members who believe that social services should be increased in order to cope with the increasing cost of living should support the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders so that an expression of opinion of this House can be obtained. If the motion is defeated it can only be taken that honourable members are not prepared to accept their responsibility as representatives in this Parliament. 
I want briefly to refer to an item contained in division  360  of this statement which refers to salaries and payments to the staff of the Australian News and Information Bureau. In view of the size of this Bureau, the amount of money required by it, in comparison with the amount required under a number of other items, is rather large and 
I want to draw attention to the fact that last year this organisation was used for purposes for which it was not set up. T ask the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  whether he can clearly indicate that these moneys were not spent on the taking of photographs, for security purposes, of persons within Australia which activity should come under another heading. That is the matter I particularly want to raise because the amount seems rather large and I feel the House is entitled to know whether these additional expenditures arise from a direction from the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to this Bureau to take photographs and in other ways engage in activities which are not properly the activities of the Bureau. If the money was used for these purposes I believe this amount should be credited against the Attorney-General's Department, which is the Department in charge of security, and the House should be clearly informed on exactly how the money is spent. Departments which do not have a security responsibility should not be used for that purpose. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members ot the House ot Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30% of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give  a  reasonably moderate pension.' 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
^1  rise to speak briefly in this debate. I support the remarks of the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor).  Because the 
Opposition originally opposed the inclusion of the provisions of section 62aa in the Income Tax Assessment Act it therefore feels that it is quite proper - although for different reasons to those given by the Government - that it should be repealed. lt would seem to me to be less than satisfactory economic planning to offer without any criterion incentives to all forms of industry for the purchase of manufacturing plant and equipment. It seems to me to be taking the easy way out. Remembering the situation in 1962 when, following colossal economic blunders on the part of the government of the day, panic measures were taken, it would seem that this typifies the approach of this Government to matters of national economic planning; it has no approach. The situation which has resulted in the introduction of this legislation is a further example of the laissez-faire attitude of the Government. 
Last year a budget was introduced into this House which could not be considered by any responsible person to have any other effect but than to substantially increase the cost of living in the community and make money available through taxation concessions to those in the higher income groups for additional investment in the community. My understanding is that one of the reasons for having a low maximum rate of income tax is to encourage those persons who have large surpluses  of  money to invest that money. This theory has been used in West Germany. It is apparently the theory of this Government. Within 6 months of the passing of the last budget, which contained fiscal measures which could only be described as being designed to create investment capital in the community, we find the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  saying that investment is one of the major causes of the present inflationary situation in this country. It would appear that some people on the Government side who have very short noses cannot see past the end of them. The investment allowance could well be a valuable instrument in financial policy if it were used selectively and used to assist Australian industry and development where that assistance is needed and is critical. I suggest that the investment allowance is justified for essential industries establishing themselves in provincial and rural areas, or for those essential industries which have, because of low profitability, reached a stage where it is absolutely necessary to replace their plant but cannot reasonably do so out of existing finances. Assistance of this kind would be of benefit to those industries. 
We hear a lot of debate about overprotection within the tariff structure. Some industries do not have the economic capacity to bring their efficiency up to the standards which would be required to enable them to cope with direct competition or partially direct competition from some of the more advanced countries or some of the low wage countries of, for instance, Asia. A concession of the type which existed in the earlier legislation could well be of benefit to those industries. An example of the type of - industry to which I refer is a textile mill in my electorate which was taken over some time ago and completely reorganised ' from a woollen piecegoods producing mill into a carpet factory, thereby maintaining' employment in that area and providing a vital industry. This is the type of thing which 1 believe should be encouraged and is worth encouraging. On the other hand it is not reasonable to offer the same level of encouragement to many sections of Australian industry which' are " already highly profitable and which have without doubt the capacity to carry out their own expansion and which do not? hesitate to use their position in the market in order to make excessive profit margins.1 I believe that to offer assistance at that level 'is wrong both morally and politically.. :  
The suspension of the taxation investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment will not damage highly profitable industries but it could have some effect on the development of industries which must of necessity up-date their plant and equipment in order to cope with competition. I feel that some level of economic planning and the selective use of this type of legislation could be of great benefit to industries operating in provincial and rural centres which, because of other problems, have a great deal of difficulty in, competing with industries established in capital cities. 
I think that this Big. which is being presented at this time for the wrong reasons, will remove a benefit which was previously granted to a large number of industries which had no reasonable grounds for claiming that type of benefit, but will unfortunately remove from a small number of industries a benefit which they greatly need. This is an undesirable and unfortunate result of financial mismanagement on the part of this Government. We are told that inflation is the reason for this benefit but one wonders whether the Government is really serious. When walking near Lake. Burley Griffin the other day I saw cut grass lying on the lawns and I am sure that this will make a great impact on national inflation. I understand that about 50 Commonwealth cars which have already been purchased are not to be used because the sight of new cars may give the appearance that the Commonwealth is unnecessarily spending money. 1 am sure that these sorts of things are having a tremendous effect on inflation. 1 am quite sure that allowing the excavation hole on the other side of this House to fill up with water and become an unused swimming pool will also have a great effect on inflation. Whilst these steps are possibly commended publicly the use of such trivial financial cuts will have no real effect at all on the nation's economy or on the future cost of living in this country. If the Government is serious and really wants to do something about the state of the economy - the inflationary spiral as it is being called - it will at long last recognise that there is a need to look further ahead than tomorrow. It is essential to plan for the future economy of this nation so as to ensure that strong and viable industries exist and that the fiscal measures which this Government will adopt will be of benefit and continue to be of benefit to those industries and will not have the effect, which for over too long a period has been evident, of generating a state of mind in which people say: 'Grab everything while you can while (he going is good because tomorrow we are sure to have a recession'.. This has been the pattern in Australia for too many years, lt is a pattern which should be changed and could be changed if the Government would take a longer, steadier and possibly unpopular look, or even a revolutionary look - I know that is a terrible word, but it is used on television every night - at its methods of financial planning. The granting of . taxation deduc tions to the value of about S300m in August of one year followed by an announcement to the nation in January of the next year that a disastrous inflationary situation has developed and that investment, which is one of the direct results of a taxation reduction, is one of the major causes of the inflation is, in my opinion, an admission of total budgetary failure and an admission of a total lack of foresight on (he part of the Government in regard to fiscal methods. 
If a government is not able to foresee the events that will occur within 2 months after handing down its budget then quite obviously it is not competent to deal with the financial affairs of a nation. This Bill quite properly withdraws an allowance which was granted in a moment of panic. As I said, it is unfortunate that the amendment proposed will penalise some sections of industry which are in need of assistance. This Bill does not indicate a responsible approach by the Government to the economic problems which are facing the community. At some time, somewhere, someone on the Government side might stand up and ask those who are responsible for this nation's fiscal policy when they will be in a position to forecast the financial events which will take place in this country and when they will provide financial policies which can be regarded as having some chance of standing at least for the year in which they are presented. Some of our recent Budgets have contained absolutely astounding errors. I believe that the circumstances surrounding this Bill are such that they will create in the minds of the Australian people, especially those who think, considerable doubt about the capacity of this Government to manage Australia's economy. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully showeth. 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on social service pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with Australian Council of Trade Union's policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: So that our citizens receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 - Mr Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Snedden)  put: 
That the  question  be  now  put. 
asked the Minister for Edu  cation and Science, upon notice: 
How many persons who were students at (a) the Geelong High School, Bell Park High School, Mathew Flinders Girls' High School and North Geelong High School, (b) St Joseph's College (Geelong) and Sacred Heart College (Geelong) and (c) The Hermitage (Geelong), Geelong Grammar School and Geelong College in 1970 were granted Commonwealth secondary school scholarships. 
There is no substance in the point of order. 
The date for final repayment is 31st March 1971, approximately 12 months after the drawings were made, in order to comply with section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act which requires that loans of the type made to the Board shall not be for more than 1 year. 
Receipts by the Board from sales of wheat will be insufficient to enable it to repay the borrowings in full by the due date. 
This is one of the main features of the Bill. The Treasurer went on to say: 
This will mean that the Commonwealth will be liable under its guarantee for an amount currently expected to be in the vicinity of $190m, recoupment of which is estimated to take approximately 14 months. It is proposed that the Commonwealth lend to the Board sufficient funds to enable it to discharge its debt to the Bank. It is also proposed that the Board be required to use for repayment of the loan all net proceeds from export sales of wheat of the 1969-70 pool - after the date of the loan - as well as the Commonwealth's stabilisation payment. 
I support the Bill. Now I shall make one or two brief comments. We have had some unseemly conduct going on in the House today from honourable members who represent city electorates. But one cannot drum into them anything regarding primary industries. I certainly am not going to try. 
The first  speaker  was the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  He is always a very logical thinker and, I understand, the shadow Treasurer. He spoke on this Bill but he took a different line altogether from that which would be taken by a man representing primary industries. I suppose that is why the Australian Labor Party has appointed him as its shadow Treasurer. He would not be against primary industry but he would keep the money pretty tightly in his hand regarding loans and such things as are mentioned in the Bill. There are two sides to this Bill. One is the practical side and the other is the theory side.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I put it to you that the esteemed honourable member for Melbourne Ports - I say esteemed because I esteem him - has put forward the theory. I hope that honourable members on the Government side will put the practical side. In case anyone listening in may wonder why I have hesitated at this point, the reason is that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  walked up to me, looked into my face and said: 'Do you want a drink, Win ton?' This kind of conduct should not be allowed in this House.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I appeal to you to take certain action. 
Order! I cannot deal with remarks which are not audible to me in the chair. I heard no remarks from the honourable member for Sturt, but if the honourable member for Sturt did make the remarks attributed to him I suggest that he apologise to the honourable member for Mallee. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Were representatives of hospital benefits funds promised a new four-schedule hospital fund structure in July 1970. 
If so. have these new schedules been prepared. 
If the schedules have been prepared when will they become operative. 
Is it a fact that current schedules do not provide protection for participants against sudden increases in hospital charges. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many persons (a) applied and (b) were accepted for enlistment in the Army for each of the last 10 years. 
How many applicants were rejected on (a) medical and (b) educational grounds. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. I ask the Minister to inform the House whether it is a fact that as a result of a recent reduction in tariff on man made fibres, dumping prices at which acrylics are available in Australia are having an adverse effect on the competitive price of Australian processed wool and in turn having an adverse effect on the Australian wool processing industry. If this is a fact will the Minister undertake to have a further look at the level of tariff on acrylics and man made fibres in order that the competitive situation of the Australian industry can be maintained? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Order! The honourable member's lime has expired. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill which is necessary in order to pass on to certain statutory office holders the increase granted in the national wage case. It is a short measure which will give the benefit of the much maligned 6 per cent national wage increase to a relatively small number of office holders who are not included in the normal framework of the Public Service. In dealing with this Bill I should like to refer briefly to the manner in which the measure has arisen, lt is true to say that the recent national wage case has been one of the most maligned pieces of conciliation and arbitration to have taken place in Australia since probably the 40-hour week case in 1947. The clear implication is that the Government has set itself out to destroy or weaken the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to such an extent that it cannot continue to function as an independent arbitral body. There is talk in the Parliament by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  and others of productivity indexes being used to govern national wage cases. There has been considerable talk about restraint, economic and otherwise, being placed on the Commission in the performance of its duties. I suggest that in addition to the constitutional limitations which exist in this field there is a real possibility that the entire arbitration structure would fail completely if limitations such as those which have been suggested publicly in this House were imposed on that body. 
It is impossible to have an independent arbitration system. Within the limitations of our Constitution the present type of arbitration system has served Australia over a great number of years, as well as any system that could be devised. It is impossible for such a system to continue to operate effectively if we are to place on the Arbitration Commission limitations of a type which would prevent it from making judgments based on the arguments presented to it. After all, it is a body which is constituted to arbitrate. It is not a body to determine economic policy. It is not a wage fixing authority in the sense that it decides what national wages will be. 
The job of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is to arbitrate in interstate industrial disputes. The fact that the role of fixing minimum standards of wages throughout Australia has fallen upon the Commission is an accident of economic history thrust upon it by the lack of force of the Australian Constitution, most likely by a lack of foresight on the part of those who designed the Constitution, and by a lack of courage on the part of those who are responsible for giving effect to the provisions of the Constitution. These people do not have the courage necessary to go to the Australian people and to ask for the powers which are required to give governments the economic powers needed to control the Australian economy in the manner which they may think fit. These people do not do this because they are frightened of what another government might do with those powers once they are acquired. I think this is a just fear when, only in the last day or so, we have seen the type of approach the Government takes on important issues. It is prepared to defend a situation where retailers are compelled to maintain excessive profit margins because manufacturers demand that that be done. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service has said consistently that he wants the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to ignore totally price movements when it is fixing wages in this country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
How many persons were employed al the Government Aircraft Factory at Avalon on 1 February 1971 and in the 5 preceding years. 
asked the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
How many persons: 
applied, and 
were accepted for enlistment in the Navy in each of the last 10 years. 
How many applicants were rejected on: 
medical grounds, and 
educational grounds. 
I want to make one or two points. Firstly, one of the first things that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said when he was elected to office was that he would pay regard to and add to the rights of private members. He has immediately cut down on question time, which is one of the few rights that private members have. By reducing question time to 30 to 35 minutes he has made it certain that private members will have to wait much longer for their opportunities to ask questions without notice. I believe that the only way to protect the - rights of a private member is to incorporate in the Standing Orders a period of 45 minutes for question time. 
The Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  quite incorrectly said that there are 3,054 questions on the notice paper. This statement is not true. The last question listed on the notice paper is question No. 3,054, but if the Minister had taken the trouble to examine the front of the notice paper he would have seen that the first question listed is No. 15 and the second No. 1,072. Had he turned over the page, he would have found that the 19th question shown is No. 2,087. So there are fewer than 1,000 questions on the notice paper. One of the Prime Minister's tactics since his election tq that office has been to suggest that members do not have the right and should not continue to have the right to place questions on the notice paper in order to solicit answers from Ministers. One fact which should be mentioned is that with questions without notice a Minister has to rise and say something. One question has been on the notice paper since 4th March 1970 so if Ministers are to ignore providing answers to what are yes or no questions, what is the point of putting questions on notice. It is an intrinsic right in the Parliament - one of the few acts of democratic government which remain and which are still permitted to members of the Opposition - that a member should be permitted to ask questions. This is something which every member, if he thinks the Parliament is worth while continuing, should seek to retain and should vote for. 
We are debating a motion that the House take note of a statement made some time ago by the then Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  about a subject which has developed a certain mystique in this place. Productivity is a word which may or may not mean something in the realities of political life in this country. In recent weeks the Government has made productivity part of the conventional wisdom of Australian economics and has sought to persuade the Australian people that increased productivity is the only thing worth while in our way of life and the only way in which our way of life can be bettered. 1 think it is fair and proper to say that all increased productivity is not necessarily in the best interests of the nation,It is also fair to say that a large number of current Government policies which. 1 would suggest, this Parliament has not. to this stage anyhow, sought to alter, in fact reduce the overall level of productivity in the community. 
I do not know what the position of the Country Party is. No Country Party supporter or Minister has yet spoken in this debate. But I doubt very much that the Country Party is prepared to accept the suggestions of the Report of the Vernon Committee of Economic Inquiry, for instance, which clearly indicate that one of the means by which productivity is reduced in the community is by providing subsidies to uneconomic rural industries. This is included in the Vernon Report, and as the Government is now so concerned about productivity I would like to see some Government supporter stand up and say that the Government is going to adopt the suggestion of the Vernon Committee and reduce such subsidies. I doubt very much that the Government would survive if it announced such an intention. There are other activities which have very important effects on the levels of productivity in the Australian community. Expenditure on education is an important method of increasing productivity and this is especially so at the levels where the skills which are necessary to maintain an industrial base are acquired. If we are not prepared to expend the necessary funds to provide the community with the levels and types of skills which modern industry requires then we cannot expect to increase the productivity of our industries. 
We cannot continue for ever to import from elsewhere the technical know-how that we in this country require and expect to gain first-band benefits from secondhand knowledge. We ourselves must be prepared to innovate. We must be prepared actively to pursue increased output from our industries and we must actively pursue Australian initiative. This is not part of the Government's policy and never has been. It is also true, as was fairly clearly pointed out in the Vernon Report, that one of the restricting factors on increased national productivity is a high level of immigration. I ask Government spokesmen whether they are prepared to reduce the level of immigration into this country merely to provide the country with a greater percentage figure of increased productivity. The crux of this matter, of course, is that the Government is proposing - quite erroneously,I suggest - that productivity should be the measuring stick for the fixing of minimum national wages. This is obviously quite attractive to the Government. It is attractive for a number of reasons, but the main reason why the Government is moving in this area is that it wants to find some justification for altering the present structure of industrial arbitration in Australia and it has reached the stage at which the lobbying of the national employers' association has become beyond the Government's capacity to resist. 
One thing which I should point out and which I think that the Government should recognise is that any attempt to place restrictions on arbitration - to some it may be a nice thought and it may even be possible to argue that it is in the interests of the national economy, although 1 very much doubt it - which would prevent the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission from giving decisions based on the evidence provided to it will ultimately destroy the arbitration system. A government of similar complexion attempted this in the 1920s but since then no government has had the courage to make an all-out assault on the national arbitration system which at present exists on a very flimsy fabric of law. I suggest that it would be disastrous to the continuation of this system of industrial arbitration for any government to try to place restrictions on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. Such restrictions would ultimately, I am quite certain, prove to be unconstitutional but they would in the interim provide such suspicion of the Commission and result in such industrial unrest that the conciliation and arbitration system would be destroyed as an effective industrial organisation in the Australian community long before any legal decision for or against such restrictions could be arrived at. 
If members of the Government want to end industrial arbitration of the type which has existed in Australia since federation then let them stand up and say that this is what they want, instead of running around the corner and seeking divisive means such as the introduction of a productivity requirement in national wage judgments. Do not let them seek these divisive means to destroy the arbitration system. If they do not want the arbitration system let them stand up and repeal the Act and be done with it. That is the crux of the matter. If productivity is made a requirement of wage fixing at the federal level there will be no wage fixing at the federal level. There is no alternative to that, that is just a plain statement of fact. I think it is about time some people on the other side of the House started to recognise and live with the facts of life as they exist and not as they would like them to exist. 
The Government has placed itself in this position because of its continual activities as spokesman and advocate for employer cases before the Commission. It has placed itself in a position in which it cannot appear to be acting in the national interest without acting for one side or the other. The fact is that the Government has consistently - and with the recent change of Government direction and leadership we can anticipate that this will be even more apparent - placed itself in such a position that every person in this community who works for wages, and every person who is responsible for industrial advocacy by an employee organisation, recognises quite certainly that the Government is one of the forces which is opposed to their interests, one of the forces which will at all times use all means possible to mitigate against the success of any industrial claim made by an employee organisation. Government supporters may hold their bands up in horror or do what they like, but this is one of the facts of political life in Australia. 
The Government has always come down on the side of employers. It has never at any stage in the 21 years it has been in office gone before the Commission to support employees. If it had then that would have been one of the real high points of its career. Whilst this attitude exists the Government cannot expect any approach it makes to institute guidlines for regulating the means by which wage decisions are fixed to be accepted. The employee organisations could not accept that these things are not done in order to benefit employers. When we talk of productivity being the yardstick by which wages and salaries in Australia will be fixed we should recognise that the Government is seeking a means by which it can reduce the actual awards granted to employees. In fact, it wants to reduce the level of wages and the purchasing power of wages in the community. 
In the last financial year the Australian gross national product increased by 10 per cent. Of this, some 7 per cent represented increased national production at current prices. If the full share of the increased production had been granted to employees, they would have received an increase of 7 per cent in wages. In fact, they received an increase of 6 per cent, and the Government held up its hands in horror. But I do not recall the Government making similar attacks on the Commission in those years when the Commission did not grant any increase in the national wage. 
I do not recall any Government spokesman making any statement a few years ago when locomotive enginemen, because of the changed technology of their industry, more than doubled their output per man but had their relative margin for skill halved by a decision of the Commission in a case in which the Commonwealth Railways was a respondent. I do not recall any Government spokesman saying: These men have increased their productivity, they have increased their worth, so their wage level should at least be maintained at what it was previously.' No Government spokesman stood up and said that. The wage level of these men was reduced, and that was all right with the Government. The only thing that is wrong in this community is when, the level of wages of employees is increased. Then it is a national tragedy. 
No honourable member in this place suggests - I hope that no honourable member opposite would suggest it - that, it is necessarily in the best interests of the nation to increase productivity. If honourable members opposite were to suggest that, obviously they would be fools. The Government actually created the situation in which many areas of primary industry considerably increased their productivity in the 1960s and the 1950s. Can any member of the Australian Country Party stand up now and say that these increases in productivity have benefited the people w':o were responsible for achieving these increases? Are farm incomes now higher than they were prior to achieving these increases in productivity? Arc the people who increased their productivity at the behest of the Government now enjoying the rewards of that increased productivity? They are not. Their industry is a shambles. Their marketing arrangements are a shambles. The fact of the matter is that the Government, which encouraged these people to increase their productivity, is now trying to find ways and means by which it can get them completely out of the industry so that the Government can be relieved of the responsibility of having to subsidise the industry, thus reducing national productivity. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I want to make one or two other points. The Vernon Committee's report, in dealing with productivity, referred to one or two other matters. It referred to the misdirection of capital expenditure. This is an area in which the Government could, if it wished, take some action. When one walks around a supermarket one can see the benefits of a 100 per cent increase in output when one looks at the packets in which some of the goods are enclosed. The packets reflect increased productivity. But the person who is purchasing these goods is buying exactly the same amount of goods as he bought previously. The only difference is that he pays a much higher price for an attractive package which he throws into the rubbish bin. 
That type of increased productivity will not help this country. It will not assist in any way in reducing prices; in fact, it will increase prices. I think it is reasonable to say that at the present time the Government is seeking ways in which it can put pressure on the Arbitration Commission so that the Commission will not make decisions which the Government does not want. The Government wants to find some way in which it can direct and control the decisions of the Commission. If the Government seeks to achieve this result by legislating in order to deal with productivity or if it seeks to achieve this result by directing the Commission in any way, then the Commission will disappear; it will be destroyed by the Government. As I said previously, if the Government wants to get rid of industrial arbitration at the Commonwealth level, let it legislate to do so; do not let it do it by adopting a back door method. 
I wish to raise a matter which is of extreme concern to a substantial section of the work force in my electorate. About 3 weeks ago I communicated with the Prime Minister by telegram and also by letter to inform him that because of severe uncertainty which had developed as a result of a considerable amount of publicity about the economic measures the Government intended to take and also because of aggravated seasonal influences there was a serious shortage of orders in the woollen textile industry. I informed the Prime Minister that unless urgent action was taken a substantial number of persons would lose employment within the next  two or  three weeks. There have been further developments and since I communicated with the Prime Minister on 12th March some 171 persons in the 3 major woollen textile mills in my electorate have been retrenched. A small number of employees have been asked to take their long service leave. There is no indication that the position is about to improve. Because of lack of orders the jobs of about 1,500 people remaining in the industry are still in jeopardy. 
It is within the province and power of the Commonwealth to take action in this matter. I have raised it tonight because urgent action should be taken. Each of the mills concerned has tendered for Commonwealth Department of Supply orders, but not one was granted to them to enable them to carry their work force until production usually increases, towards spring. Such orders would enable the plants to maintain the skilled personnel who are required if they are to remain viable businesses. If the slump in the industry develops the people lost to it will not be available for re-employment when they are needed. This will have a very serious and continuing effect on the viability of the industry. 
One of the mills was set up after World War I by returned servicemen who invested their gratuity payments in its establishment. It was a wise step and it has enabled a very substantial business to be developed in the Geelong area. The mill about which I speak is in serious difficulties because of changed circumstances in the industry. It is in urgent need of assistance of the type which  would be  forthcoming if the Government were prepared to place with it orders for cloth for uniforms for Service personnel. An order of 337,000 yards of material is subject to tender to the Department of Supply. I am informed by the mill's management that if it were to obtain an order for 20,000 yards - just a small proportion of the total order - it would be able to carry forward its staff until the normal uplift of production in the industry takes place. 
This mill was built by the savings of exservicemen. Until very recent times, being an ex-serviceman was a qualification to hold shares in it. This industry has given the nation considerable benefits over the years. 1 do not think it would be wrong for the Government to act to save it from serious financial embarrassment by placing an order for Service requirements with this ex-servicemen's mill. This type of operation should commend itself to the Government. The need is urgent and these mills cannot wait much longer. About 10 days ago 91 employees were given notice. Subsequently another 50 were dismissed. The total number of employees who have been dismissed or have been given notice is 175. This is a substantial proportion of a work force in a closed work area. 
Alternative employment is not readily available. The Prime Minister is already in possession of the main facts of the matter. I ask the Government to act urgently to remedy the situation and to try to save the jobs of a large number of people who can ill afford to lose their employment. Because of the closed nature of the area they have very little prospect of alternative employment. This is especially so of females. An examination of the recent summary by the Department of Labour and National Service of women in employment in provincial centres will show the very heavy dependence of women on the textile industry in Geelong. This is a matter of some importance. I trust that the 
Government will act to ensure that no further retrenchments take place. It is purely a matter of speeding up the allocation of orders and considering, when allocating those orders, the urgent necessities of these 3 mills. The Prime Minister knows their names, and I do not want to repeat them in the Parliament. The matter I have raised is a serious one and I ask that something be done about it urgently. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon' notice: 
How many persons (a) applied and (b) were accepted for enlistment in the Air Force in each of the last 10 years. 
How many applicants were rejected on (a) medical and (b) educational grounds. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
What would be the cost of adding 10 cents to each age and invalid pension. 
Earlier in this debate the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said that the Opposition had been caught with its pants down because it had not prepared itself to debate any of the Bills which are on the notice paper. I suggest to the honourable member that as he is the  Deputy  Government Whip he is entitled to know exactly or approximately when legislation is to be introduced in this House and as he has some responsibility to this House he ought at least to give responsible information to the House. Listed under 'Government Business' on the notice paper are 32 items, 14 of which were introduced into this House on Wednesday or Thursday of last week. A further 11 of those items were introduced in the previous 4 sitting days, making a total of 25 measures introduced into this House in the last 2 sitting weeks. 
On the notice paper are only some 8 items - some of which were dealt with today - which have not been introduced in this Parliament within the last fortnight and of those items at least 4 will not be dealt with during this session because the Government is not prepared to debate them. Perhaps the honourable member for Angas could explain why the Government is not prepared to debate the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1971, the Senate Elections Bill 1971, the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Bill 1971, the House of Representatives (Quorum) Bill 1971 and also a number of other notices which are relevant to this matter. They have been on the notice paper for some time. Also on the notice paper are other matters which have not yet been dealt with but which have been on the notice paper since last year, and the Government is not prppared to debate them. But the honourable member for Angas said that we are tardy because we are not able to deal adequately with 25 Bills in a fortnight. I suggest that any Opposition which considered or claimed that it could deal with 25 measures including a number of highly complex measures in a fortnight would be an irresponsible Opposition and it would be almost as irresponsible as this Government is. 
Well, if we said we could deal with those Bills in that time we would be. The fact is that supporters of the Government, especially back benchers, have totally abdicated their responsibility to this Parliament and they have no re spect for the position which they hold in this place. They are not fit to be members of any parliament in any democratic society. They are prepared to allow- 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Under what conditions are those persons who, under existing customs in their country of origin, have entered into multiple marriages eligible to enter Australia as permanent residents. 
Are all spouses in such marriages of equal standing under Australian law. 
Are these persons eligible for Australian citizenship. 
Do Australian divorce laws apply in full to these marriages. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware of charges made by the Premier of Victoria that the Commonwealth is avoiding its financial responsibilities under the pensioner medical scheme and thus forcing the State Government to increase hospital charges and also causing a resultant increase in hospital benefit payments to people in the State of Victoria. Has the Premier of Victoria raised this matter with the Commonwealth? Has he alleged that the Commonwealth is avoiding financial responsibility to the tune of $27m? 
This debate has 2 aspects. One is the appointment of an additional Minister, which is all very well and most likely will in some way assist the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  out of his numerical difficulties which arise because of the necessity to place friends and relations in the Ministry whilst at the same time maintaining some people of ability in high office. The Opposition is opposed to the manner in which this Bill has been brought forward. The Opposition also opposes the manner in which such important questions are considered. 
The Prime Minister, almost out of the air, decides that he is no longer capable of carrying out the duties which previous Prime Ministers carried out. 
He decides therefore that he will divide up his Department and appoint another Minister to do half his work. The Prime Minister then proceeds to bring forward a Bill. In the process, he hands on those operations of his Department which were to be the functions of the new Minister to another senior Minister and takes duties away from a junior Minister and makes them the basis for the appointment of a new Minister. This time the functions of the new Minister are not those functions which the Parliament - or more specifically the newspapers of Australia - was informed of at an earlier time. It is consistent with the activities of the Government that members of Parliament would be the last people to be informed of what the Government's intentions were in this field. I think it would be in order for the Parliament to consider seriously whether or not the appointment of an additional Minister is justified and whether the situation of the junior Ministers is such that they could not accept some small increase in work load which would enable the present Ministry to do the current amount of work. 
Another point is that with the addition of Assistant Ministers there will be an extremely lopsided situation between Ministers, members holding some form  of  ministerial authority and back bench members of the Government. This situation has existed in the past only in very small parliaments such as the Tasmanian Parliament where there are more chiefs than indians. A situation will be created very shortly in the Parliament where there are more Ministers than back bench members.  I  wonder whether members of the Liberal Party have considered the situation which will evolve in their Party room when they line up and find that some 40 people in the party room hold official positions within the Parliament and who would suffer considerable remunerative gain or loss by any displeasure they incur from the Prime Minister who has the life and death appointment of these people in his hands. What hope will back bench members of the Government have of influencing seriously Government policy? They will be that close to being outnumbered that it will not be funny. 1 think that is a matter for serious consideration. 
The appointment of Assistant Ministers is not a new proposition. The last time this proposition was raised in Ibis Parliament, it came from the then Prime Minister. lt was dropped on the basis that he felt it was unconstitutional. It is a proposition about which the present Prime Minister has indicated that he does not think the Constitution would allow these men to be paid. I presume we have a very good set of Liberal philosophies in this: The Assistant Ministers will be expecting to work, but not to be paid. However, the Prime Minister has indicated that they will be entitled to out of pocket expenses and travelling allowances. I would ask - and I think the House is entitled to at least have this information before it before agreeing to the legislation - at what rates these allowances and out of pocket expenses will be paid? Will they be paid at the same rates that apply to Ministers or will they be same rates as apply to ordinary members of the House, because these members are ordinary members of the House. If they are paid out of pocket expenses at a greater rate than that to which members of the House are entitled to receive they are at least indirectly receiving remuneration for their positions^ am sure that most honourable members of "the House would find it much easier to discuss the whole situation of travelling allowances and remunerations, etc., rather than in this backhanded way of rewarding one or two close supporters. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, you are seriously involved also in this proposition. The Prime Minister has indicated that these Assistant Ministers will sit at the table during the Committee stages of debates on Bills. This will be something new because normally we have Ministers sitting at the table who have absolutely nothing to do with the Bills being debated before the House. The Ministers who are in charge of such Bills are always too busy to attend to their business in this House. This has been especially so during the last 3 or  4  Budgets. Treasurers of the Commonwealth of Australia have not been present to deal with their Budgets. I would hope that no Government could have such contempt for the Parliament that it would consider putting Assistant Ministers at the table while the House debated the Budget and the Estimates of the various departments. 
No, we would not. I would point out that the Standing Orders confer certain privileges on members of this Parliament. I would like to know now whether those privileges are to be extended to Assistant Ministers. 
By the expansion of these processes we could end up in a position where every Government member is either a Minister or an Assistant Minister. There are nearly enough positions to go around to cover every one of them. They would be in a situation where they would have privileges to which ordinary members of the Parliament are not entitled. For instance, Ministers can speak on an unlimited number of occasions in the explanation of points during the Committee stages of a Bill. 
The Prime Minister has indicated that he will be looking at the Standing Orders, and, if necessary, he will have them changed. I would suggest that before he decides to appoint Assistant Ministers in such a way as completely ignores the Parliament he should ask the Parliament whether it is prepared to amend the Standing Orders in order to facilitate these appointments and to facilitate the functions which these Assistant Ministers are supposed to carry out. What a ludicrous situation it would be. It could well happen because on most occasions when the Standing Orders are before the House and amendments are proposed a free vote is granted to honourable members. What a ludicrous situation it would be if Assistant Ministers are appointed with trumpet fanfares and the Standing Orders are not altered in order to afford them the privileges which will be conferred - wrongly, I think - to them. In this situation, they would not be able to perform their functions. I think that it is bad enough that Ministers should have such excessive privileges in the House. To confer those privileges on ordinary members of Parliament who are not responsible in any way to the Parliament for their activities would be totally wrong. 
That is a matter of judgment. At this time, our judgment would be different from that of those on the other side of the House. But our judgment would be right of course. 
Another matter in this second reading speech which causes considerable concern is that Assistant Ministers in some way or other will take part in the running and administration of departments, but they will have no political responsibility and will not be able to accept political responsibility. In effect this means that they will not be responsible to this Parliament. This will create a lovely old situation: it will be another addition to the buck passing line. Already, when Ministers in this House are in trouble, they blame the public servants in charge of their departments, State Premiers or anyone they can find. In fact, some Ministers even blame Opposition members for their mistakes. Now we will have Assistant Ministers who, according to the Prime Minister's statement, will not be subject to questioning by or responsible to the Parliament and who, with impunity, will be able to make all the mistakes they like. The Minister at the table, who will have to accept responsibility, will be able to stand up and say, T did not actually do this; you will have to see the Assistant Minister.' And, after all, the Assistant Minister is not recognised by this Parliament as the person responsible. I think that this matter is open to serious question. 
I now wish to deal seriously with another matter referred to by the Prime Minister in his ministerial statement. He said: 
I do not intend at this stage to make specific appointments to the office of Assistant Minister. These will be kit until the parliamentary recess. 
I ask why the Parliament is considered to be so irrational that such an important step is not to be taken while the Parliament is in session. There is no reason whatever why the Parliament must go into recess today, tomorrow or next week. If there is a pressing reason, I think it is the responsibility of the Government to inform the Parliament and the people of Australia why the Parliament cannot remain in session. 
At present on the notice paper we have the greatest list of executions since the French Revolution - 17 guillotines in one motion, an amazing proposition for any democratic Parliament. If this was the second or third week in June, as it was last year when we were seriously faced with the possibility of not being able to have the Budget prepared in time, we could understand such a course being taken, but in this case we are in the first week in May, and it is one of the earliest times that Parliament has been going into recess in recent years. There must be an explanation for this; it may be that the Prime Minister is afaid of the Parliament. He says that he is a team man; possibly the team he belongs to is not the one that operates in this House. 
I have one other point to make. The Prime Minister says that the Assistant Ministers will be members of the Executive Council. I presume this will entitle them to be called 'honourable'. They will be entitled to make appointments. Many very important appointments are made by Ministers of this Parliament. Although I will not say 'yea' or 'nay' to this, I think that some honourable members would consider that many of these appointments most likely should be subject to further consideration. The Prime Minister does not specify any limit to the number of appointments that Assistant Ministers may make. They will be able to sit on the Executive Council and make appointments. The Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia is an appointed official. Will these Assistant Ministers be able to participate in such an appointment? The Presidential Members of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission are appointed officials; not only are they appointed but they are appointed for life. Therefore, once they are appointed the only way their appointment can be revoked is by this Parliament's deciding that they are incompetent. 

 Sir, it may be stretching the bounds of imagination a little far to suggest that an Assistant Minister may make such an appointment. However, the fact is that there is nothing in the Prime Minister's statement to suggest what appointments will be made by these Assistant Ministers. When the Treasurer is overseas attending a meeting of the International Bank or doing something else - he is always too busy to deal with the affairs of the Parliament at Budget time, and no doubt he is too busy with other matters at other times, too - will the Assistant Minister to the Treasurer be able to appoint the Commissioner of Taxation or the members of the Tariff Board? Will Assistant Ministers be able to appoint people to high offices in the Public Service? What limits are involved in the making of these appointments? We should also consider the appointment of members of the Board of the Commonwealth Development Bank and other appointments made by this Parliament. All that the Prime Minister has said is that the Assistant Ministers will be members of the Executive Council and will be empowered to make appointments. 
I assume - and I hope correctly - that surely no Prime Minister would say in Parliament that Assistant Ministers would be able to make appointments in the other sense of the word - that they would be able to make appointments for Ministers to see people; surely secretaries would do that. Therefore, I can only assume that the appointments referred to in the second reading speech are the types of appointment to which I have referred: Appointments to positions and posts. It is most likely that there will be some graded scale. 
Up to grade X an Assistant Minister will be able to appoint a certain officer, but once that officer becomes more senior, further appointments will have to be made by Ministers, most probably first by a junior Minister and later by a senior Minister. I suggest that the whole proposition of Assistant Ministers is not well enough explained or defined. I do not think the Prime Minister has thought it out at all, and I am quite sure that the Government supporters have not even seriously considered it. The obvious reason for the appointments is to keep a few more people happy and to enable certain remunerations and staff facilities to be made available to back bench Government supporters, such remunerations and staff facilities not being available even to front bench members of the Opposition. 
The real crunch of the matter is to gain a political advantage, in that staff, speech writers and so on will be made available to Government supporters, while the Government can stand back and refuse to grant even front bench members of the Opposition the same type of facility. After all, there are certain political advantages in having one's speeches written and in being able to stand up in Parliament and sound like an expert on matters one knows nothing whatever about. In these circumstances, a Government Minister can even use the guillotine, passing through Parliament legislation which he wishes to pass and which 90 per cent of Government supporters do not even understand. This serious matter could have long term repercussions in the Parliament. I suggest that, if Government members are concerned about their own conditions and about the role that members of Government parties in Australia play, they should consider this question. They should not accept this type of buying off with a few sops. It is likely that there will be a public relations officer and a paid secretary, the use of a Commonwealth car and probably an allowance of $20 a day whenever these Assistant Ministers are not in Canberra. If honourable members on the Government side are prepared to accept this situation this is a very sorry state of affairs for the Parliament and this country. I suggest that before any action is taken on the Bill at least the Standing Orders Committee should be asked to examine the proposition put forward by the Prime Minister, and particularly to consider whether it will allow these Assistant Ministers to have the rank of full Ministers in the Parliament because, at the moment, there is no provision in the Standing Orders for them to sit at the table and play the part that it is necessary for a Minister to play during the Committee stages of a Bill. 
I second the motion. Briefly, I think that the suspension of standing order 92 (a) at this time is extremely important. I believe that those who framed this standing order would have intended that the guillotine should apply only to a single Bill. I would have thought that in the past the guillotine has been used by moving that a single Bill be declared urgent. I do not know whether there is any precedent for more than one Bill on different topics to be included in a declaration such as that made by the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz).  But I suggest that when 17 Bills, some of which are of extreme importance and some of which are among the most technically complex Bills to come before this Parliament in a number of years, are declared urgent, it is a little ludicrous to suggest that in 20 minutes the question as to the time allocated should be dispatched  -  I think 'dispatched' is the right word - and finalised. I suggest that it is proper that a greater amount of time be allowed for debate on this matter of urgency. 
I think that a full and proper debate on this matter in the Parliament may well clarify some of the issues which have bogged down the business of this Parliament during most of today and which may well bog down the business of the Parliament for some considerable time to come. 1 fail to see how the Government can expect co-operation when it acts in the manner in which it is acting at the moment. I also find it difficult to understand how a question of this nature can be put through the Parliament and how we can limit debate by allocating such a restricted time to consider matters of such importance as the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill. 
The present discussion arises from the question that certain Bills be declared urgent. The motion before the Chair is that we suspend the Standing Orders so that we can debate the declaring of these Bills urgent and the time allocated for debate. I second the motion because I believe that it is ludicrous for this Parliament to suggest to people such as those in the trade union movement and the employers who will be subject to the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill and who have a very important interest in it - the income tax legislation is another important matter - that this Bill was passed and became law after proper deliberation by this Parliament when we know, the Leader of the House knows and the people who will blindly support him at a later stage know that this Bill will not be discussed properly by the Parliament and will not be given anything like proper consideration. We all know that no proper opportunity to move amendments to the Bill will be given to this Parliament. 
I support the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders. I think this House has a very important duty to make sure that it remains the House of Representatives, the House of government. Do not let any Government member fool himself into thinking that by using the guillotine to push Bills through this House the Government will limit debate on these measures. They will be debated fully by the Senate. The abdication of responsibility by this House, which was evident the last time the guillotine was applied on the National Health Bill, will continue. If honourable members opposite want to make themselves second rate citizens in the Parliament they are going the right way about it. 
That is right. 
At approximately this time last year, after a similar exhibition by the Government, about midday on the last sitting day - after a 1.30 a.m. and a 3.30 a.m. sitting, which is nowhere near as bad as this - we had women chaining themselves up in the gallery. I suggest that much of the blame for that occurrence rested on those persons who were responsible for the late sittings of the House. I suggest that, if this house persists with the conditions of employment under which the attendants and other personnel in this House work, it must also accept responsibility for the results of the fact that no human being can be expected to be alert and efficient and to perform his duties under such conditions. 
The Clerks and the other people in this House do not have the same opportunity to rest as the members. Those persons cannot be expected to be. alert and to carry out their duties in the proper way after such an exhaustive session. Some of them in fact, are being asked to work 40 continuous hours by the Government members - the people running the House. I ask whether any Government supporter has the courage to stand up and say that these are reasonable terms of employment or any terms of employment at all. I know that the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan),  who is interjecting, would suggest that that is about right for the workers of this country. 
The honourable member has consistently voted with the Government to keep the House in session and will continue to ;do so until such time as the House rises 'at some time on Friday morning. This motion is a serious one. I mink it is about time the Government took some cognisance ;of it. The Government is keeping the members up, which is bad enough.' But it is also' keeping the staff up. I think it is an absolute farce to keep the Parliament going under these circumstances. It is about time some of the members of this House accepted their responsibility to the people who.::work for them. The people who work in this Parliament give good and faithful , service, but are paid a mere pittance, ari' absolutely disgraceful wage. 1 hope that at some time this, too, can be exposed to the public of this country. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I was on my feet before you called the.  Clerk.  I am not speaking to the Bill. I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent this House from immediately discussing the hours and conditions of employment of the staff of Parliament House. 
I move this because I think it is' a matter of serious consequence and something which . someone of responsibility in this Parliament should take into consideration. The situation is that the staff of this House, with 7 hours off, have now been on duty for almost 40 hours. If the timetable of this Parliament is to be completed in accordance with the Government's programme, the girls in the dining room the attendants in the House, the Hansard reporters, the staff of Ministers and other staff in the Parliament will have been on duty in this House continuously for about 40 hours. Possibly if we could telephone the Prime Minister's Lodge and have him awakened from his comfortable sleep we would explain this to him. The staff of the House, especially the attendants, are paid salaries which I suggest some of the Ministers in this place should have a look at. Their salaries are an absolute disgrace. They are not paid in accordance with the normal conditions of employment. I am informed that their maximum rate of overtime payment is time and a half. It is quite possible that they could be on duty here for 40 continuous hours. 
The one part of the Bill which concerns me is the provision to allow the Commonwealth to make deductions from grants for payroll tax which has not been paid. It is suggested in the Bill that the High Court might reject the challenge on payroll tax and the States would then not meet their obligation. This would appear to be a very doubtful situation. The Bill also contains a provision which would enable the Commonwealth to make a refund to a State which paid the payroll tax after having had a deduction from its grant. I am not sure of exactly what that means in financial terms, but it seems to me to be a bit of tweedledum and tweedledee. If the State has not paid the money and the Commonwealth has deducted a comparable amount from its grant, I do not see what difference a couple of bookkeeping entries would make to the accounts of either the Commonwealth or the State. If the Commonwealth gives money to the State and the State gives it back to the Commonwealth, at least this has the effect of employing people to make the bookkeeping entries. Apart from that it seems to be a pretty wasteful exercise. 
I am concerned with the effect of the lack of revenue avenues which have been available to the States for a considerable period of time. The receipts tax legislation was the prime cause of the failure of this type of fund raising, which is the reason why this Bill is now before the Parliament. The receipts tax legislation was not a very equitable means of raising revenue. It was a fairly inefficient way for the States to raise revenue. But I think it is even more inefficient and more inequitable for the Commonwealth to be continuing to demand that the States pay to it payroll tax and for the States to accept - it appears that they are being asked to accept this - responsibility for the payroll of payroll tax by local government and other bodies which are subject to State laws. 
In many cases the situation has now arisen - in Victoria I think this is a reasonable assumption - where the amounts of payroll tax which are being paid to the Commonwealth are very closely allied to the amounts of deficit which exist in the Victorian Budget. The effect of this is that the Commonwealth is taking money from that State on an interest free basis in taxation revenue, and in order to finance the money that must be paid to the Commonwealth the State has to dip into its loan money to finance the deficit. The people of Victoria are paying 7i per cent interest on money which is given to the Commonwealth in payroll tax. That appears to be the economic situation involved. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports has dealt fairly adequately with that situation. 
I appeal to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to look seriously at the effects which are being and have been felt in the community because of the Commonwealth's deliberate withholding of funds from the States. I believe that central finance is the most efficient method of finance which is available. While that finance is levied in the manner in which a big brother operation is able to continue, we will have , the situation which is occurring and re-occurring in all States especially in those States which are to some degree disadvantaged under the income tax formula. The situation in hospitals in Victoria is critical. The Geelong Hospital, which is in my electorate, had reached the stage at the end of last month where its bank overdraft was such that it was totally impossible for the hospital even to contemplate continuing unless additional revenue was made available. The hospital committee had made up its mind that it would be necessary to start dismissing staff and closing down sections of the hospital. This is a direct result of Government funds not being made available to this institution. 
It is a pretty serious indictment of the financial situation which exists in Australia when vital community organisations such as hospitals have their future placed in jeopardy because of Government policy. Grace McKellar House - a home for the aged - is in similar financial difficulties. One of the prime causes of its difficulties is the increased cost of labour. There are other reasons for its difficulties. However, the Commonwealth is in a very good position in that if there is a 6 per cent increase in the Commonwealth wage structure it automatically receives a very substantial increase in revenue, but the States have to reduce their services by the amount of any increase in wages until such time as the Commonwealth, under the income tax formula or by some act of grace, decides to reimburse the States by the amount of the extra revenue involved. This is very serious because it is a re-occurring problem. It does not happen once every now and then. There are always some increases in wages and salaries; some increase in costs; and therefore some increase in revenues available to the Commonwealth and some relative decrease in the revenues of the States and local government bodies, which are most likely the worst affected of all. Because their method of revenue raising is on a flat rate of taxation, the cost structure to the community has no relationship to the ability to pay and has no equity in it whatsoever. 1 point out that age pensioners who do not pay any form of income tax and who could not be considered to be liable to income tax are now paying $1 per week or more in most areas in my electorate in council rates, which are just another form of taxation and which should not have to be levied at such a steep rate on people whose incomes are so low. I do not want to speak at great length on this, but 1 do think that it is important for some protest to be made in this Parliament about what appears to be the extremely high-handed manner in which this Bill has been framed, whereby the Commonwealth has reserved for itself virtually the right to take money out of the Victorian Treasury if the Victorian Government is able to prove in the High Court that the payroll tax which the Commonwealth has been levying against it is not constitutional. If it is not constitutional, I hope that the Commonwealth will, when it gets to this refund clause, refund all payroll tax which it has already collected from local government bodies and other bodies over a considerable number of years. This would be a bonanza to those organisations. It most likely would not be enough for  Sir Henry  Bolte, but that is one of those things. I think his appetite for funds is most likely insatiable. 
There are serious financial problems which at this stage show no signs of being solved. These financial problems may be good political talking points for State politicians in abusing the . Commonwealth. These problems may well be and continue to be an embarrassment to the Federal Government. But the fact is that it is not the leaders of the State governments or the leaders of the Commonwealth Government who suffer; it is the community which suffers. The community services which can be provided only by local government and State government authorities, and which are so necessary in our community life if - it is to continue to develop, suffer. I refer to hospitals, homes for the aged, recreation facilities and so on, which have reached or are reaching the situation of total depression. Sufficient funds are not made available. There is a limit to how much people can be asked to pay. In Victoria the cost of a hospital bed is up to $196 a week. I think it is reasonable to say that no person who works for wages could possibly meet that charge. It may well be said that that is for private ward accommodation, but of course there are people who, although they do not wish to have the luxury, have to go into private accommodation at $196 per week because of the nature of their illness. The costs of insurance are greater to the individual than is the income tax which he pays to the Commonwealth each week. 
I suggest that some real efforts should be made to ensure that moneys are available to provide the community services. The Treasurer, as a former Minister for Immigration, would know the number of people who do not represent natural increase in our population but who are adding to the population in the States. They require many more services than those that would normally accrue to people who make up the natural increase in the community and who find it easier to assimilate into the Community and to satisfy their social needs. These are points which most likely have been raised with the Treasurer before and in this Parliament before. But I think it is extremely important that the depressing conditions which are facing local government authorities, semi-government authorities and to a lesser extent State governments should not continue. The service which these bodies provide are real and necessary. 
I would finish on this note: I hope that the challenge to the rights of the Commonwealth to levy payroll tax is successful because I think it is inequitable and improper for the Commonwealth to levy payroll tax on organisations such as local government authorities which can raise revenue only by the levying of taxes. I believe that income tax is a more equitable means. The moneys which are being raised in the form of payroll tax levied on local government authorities could be raised with less difficulty and probably less cost to the Commonwealth and the community if they were raised in the form of income tax. Payroll tax is not a good form of taxation; it is an inefficient form and, I think, a highly improper one. 
Order! 
Order! The honourable member for Riverina will resume his seat. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
How many students at (a) Geelong High School, (b) North Geelong High School, (c) Norland High School, (d) Bell Park High School, (e) Matthew Flinders Girls' High School, (f) Geelong Grammer School, (g) Geelong College, (h) St Joseph's College (Geelong), (i) Sacred Heart Col lege (Geelong), (j) The Hermitage (Geelong), (k) Clonard College, and (l) Morongo Presbyterian Girls' College were candidates for Commonwealth Secondary School Scholarships in each of the past 5 years. 
What percentage of the candidates in each school was successful 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
What is the annual cost to. the Commonwealth in debt repayments for each 1 per cent added to the bond rate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that artificial limbs and surgical aids are not available under the pensioner medical scheme. 
If so, does this cause severe hardship for those persons who are fully dependent on social services and who require these aids. 
Why are these basic health requirements denied to pensioners. 
Are telephones, etc., regarded as being more important to pensioners than essential surgical aids. 
Is it a fact that the cost of a bowel re-section operation is borne by the Commonwealth but the colostomy bags which are necessitated by this operation are not provided; if so, what is the reason for this apparent anomaly. 
asked the Minister for the Army, upon notice: 
How many Citizen Military Forces officer training courses have been conducted in the past 12 months. 
In what locations are courses currently being conducted. 
Have any scheduled courses been delayed because of lack of available funds. 
Is an officer school in progress with the 10th Medium Regiment based in Geelong; if not, when is it anticipated that a course will be commenced. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
What is the weekly rate of pay for first grade musicians in the Royal Australian Air Force. 
Have musicians been reclassified from group 7 to group 9. 
What is the difference in pay between these groups. 
Can he say what is the current pay rate for musicians employed by the ABC Symphony Orchestra. 
How many members of the RAAF Central Band have resigned in the past year. 
Have pay adjustments for RAAF musicians been approved. 
If so, when are the increased payments to commence. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Does existing Commonwealth legislation prohibit (he transportation of fauna from one State, in which it is protected, to an adjoining State. 
If not, will bc examine ways in which interstate trading in protected fauna can be p teven led by law. 
, asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What assistance for education costs is available for children of low income families in Commonwealth Territories? 
-1-! present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully showeth. 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with ACTU policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity: 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Mcmahon ministry 
I think the honourable member should relate his remarks to the matter before the House. 
East Pakistan refugees into India, the Secretary-General of the United Nations issued an appeal for international assistance. The Department of Foreign Affairs had already prepared contingency plans. The Prime Minister announced on 27th May that the first portion, $500,000 worth of aid, was the third to be pledged by any country. That is not a bad effort This was the third highest amount to be pledged by any country. 
We have our own Budget realities to contend with. This has become quite evident. We have had to raise charges to the Australian people and to place further burdens upon them. We had to look to our own resources and find just what we could provide without stretching our financial situation to a point which would not be tolerable. There was also the recent offer of 25,000 metric tons of wheat. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, India had excess supplies of wheat and was not ready to accept this offer. But at least the wheat was offered to the Indian Government. 
Order! There is no valid point of order. 
I rise to draw the attention of the House to a matter which is of serious concern to a substantial section of the work force and certain managements in my electorate. The existing situation in the textile industry in Australia, especially the wool textile industry, is critical. Since January of this year the membership of the Australian Textile Workers Union in the Geelong subdivision has dropped by 900 members. This has been caused mainly by severe recessions in the wool textile mills in the area. At least one major mill about which I have spoken before in this House has reduced its staff by more than 50 per cent. Other mills have made very substantial reductions in staff. 
It appears that a number of factors have contributed to this. One of the major factors is the extremely low price of imported woollen and substitute woollen materials which are available on the Australian market. Some of them quite obviously have been dumped on the Australian market. Made up garments have sold at prices lower than the price of raw materials for manufacture. It is fairly true to say also that Australian merchants handling woollen goods prefer, for reasons best known to themselves - most likely it is profit - to market imported materials as opposed to 
Australian made materials. One of the results of this is that there is practically no wool content in most of the fashion goods which are currently available in the shops for either men or women. Good quality woollen garments are just not available in any quantity. 
If, as is being indicated, serious concern exists amongst members of the Government about the future of wool as a fibre, I would suggest that it is time that someone had a look at what future wool will have if Australian merchants are not prepared to merchandise what is one of our major products and prefer cheap substitutes dumped on the Australian market for a quick quid - because that is, I think, the real situation. 
Recently, representatives of the woollen textile industry had interviews with the Minister concerned. They came away, with the impression that they could expect the tariff protection which they had already to be substantially reduced in the not too distant future. The future of large sections of the industry is most likely tied up fairly tightly with Government policy. It is tied up fairly tightly also with the ability of the industry to compete efficiently. There is no way in which an Australian industry can compete with low wage structure countries such as those of South East Asia, and there is no way in which an Australian industry can compete effectively, irrespective of its efficiency, against dumping, whether it be from Asia or Europe. In both cases, this is happening. 
One of the things which concerns me seriously is the importation into Australia of goods made with wool purchased in other countries. Apparently the Australian Government does not seem to consider this to be serious. Wool is one of Australia's major products; yet we are importing wool. I have been informed that woollen materials are imported by Australia even from Rhodesia. I understand that imports from Rhodesia supposedly are prohibited, but woollen materials are being marketed by Australian merchants. 
Recently I was made aware of a situation in which Australian woollen fabrics woven by one of the leading Australian mills in fashion goods manufactures were delivered to its merchants for sale and the merchants after holding them for some months said that there was no market for those goods. The mil] put the products on sale direct from its own warehouse and sold them almost immediately. This would indicate to me that there is something seriously wrong with the marketing of Australian woollen products. This is something which the Australian Government would do well to consider. 
The Australian share of woollen materials in the domestic market has dropped by approximately 10 per cent in recent years. This is a substantial drop; it is causing some long established and fairly efficient industries either to drop out altogether or to be in the situation where they may not be able to continue operations for much longer. I am more concerned about this matter because the textile industry is one of the few industries in Australia with a relative degree of decentralisation. The textile industry operates in a number of country towns. In a number of these country towns it represents the only really industry there. 
I hope that the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  will look at his own figures on this matter instead of rather glibly saying that he is aware of the trends in the employment situation. If he has a look at the statistics for Victoria he will find that 1 in 7i of the persons receiving unemployment benefits in that State are in the Geelong district. That compares with a population ratio between Geelong and the remainder of the State of 1 to 32. If the Minister takes another look at those figures he will find that more people are in receipt of unemployment benefits in Victorian country towns than in the metropolitan area of Melbourne, despite the fact that the population ratio is approximately I to 24 in favour of the metropolitan area. This is something which, I think, could well be considered by the Government and could be the subject of some serious investigations by the Minister's Department, because the figures are there in black and white. 
In total there are more people in receipt of unemployment benefits in the nonmetropolitan areas of Victoria than there are in the metropolitan area. In my opinion, that is extremely serious. 
It would appear to me that some form of quota system in relation to woollen materials is needed if we are to maintain  our present woollen textile industries. This should be a matter of Government policy. I am seriously concerned at the quite obvious lack of any initiatives in this field. I think it is fair to say that the Government is well aware of the situation. Recently a wool textile manufacturers conference was held in Canberra. A Press release was made by the  President  of the Association.  Mr S.  D. Kelly. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate it in Hansard. 
WOOLLEN MILLS SUFFERING MAJOR CRISIS, SAYS INDUSTRY'S LEADER 
CANBERRA - 'There is a crisis situation in the wool processing industry which may soon match that of the wool producers,' the  president  of Wool Textile Manufacturers of Australia,  Mr S.  D. Kelly, said here today. 
Employment and orders have both fallen off seriously in most factories in the last year. There are hundreds fewer jobs than there were a year ago, and more redundancies are inevitable. In the woollen weaving segment of the industry, employment is down 25 per cent. 
Production of wool and wool-blend woven fabrics dropped from 22 million to 19 million square yards in the last year, and forward orders are heavily down compared with a year ago,' said  Mr Kelly  who spoke after the conclusion of W.T.M.A.'s annual meeting in Canberra. 
Members of the organisation produce 80 per cent of all Australian wool textile products such as tops, yarns, cloths, blankets and rugs as well as major quantities of similar products in which wool is blended with other natural and man-made fibres. 
The wool textile industry as a whole has not been in a worse state economically since the depression,' said  Mr Kelly. 
Yet, paradoxically, it has never been a more efficient producer than it is today as a result of massive investments in new machinery and processes, and diversification of output. 
Our capacity and ability to produce high-quality yarns and textiles is very great but seriously underemployed. 
We are distressed but not dispirited. 
A way out of our difficulties must and will be found.' 

 Mr Kelly said that the woollen manufacturing industry, which employed 18,000 people, was suffering primarily from imports of products similar to, or which could be substituted for, those made in Australia. 
These come primarily from low labour-cost countries and those which have tremendous export incentive aids, either visible or - as is very often the case - concealed. 
Imported synthetic yarns and fabrics are biting great chunks out of our local market. 
It's a standard pattern: first the synthetic staple comes in to be turned into yarn by Australian spinners who supply to local weavers and knitters. 
Then the spinner is cut out by imports of yarns instead of staple. Then the weaver and knitter is cut out by the imports of fabrics. And now we can  see  the first significant signs of the fabric converter being cut out by imports of finished products such as garments and blankets. 
It's an insidious process and is slowly bringing not merely the woollen processors but also other sectors of the textile and garment industry to their knees. 
Overseas fibre, yarn and fabric producers must have a quite laugh at the way in which this country's textile industry makes a market here for the overseas products and then is quietly strangled.' 

 Mr Kelly continued: 'This country is soon going to have to decide whether it wants a textile industry or not. 
The woollen sector of this industry has already gone just about as far as it can in retrenchments, mergers, rationalisation, production efficiency and diversification, and the closing-down of less-efficient units. 
We're down to bare bones. 
If we, and other members of the textile industry, get any leaner it could have a very severe impact on the whole of the country's economy and nol merely on our own section of it. The industry's highly-decentralised nature and the extent  of  its infrastructure would make this inevitable.' 

 Mr Kelly said that it would be ironic if the world's greatest wool exporter allowed its own woollen industry to go to the wall. 
What a great advertisement that would be for Australian wool. And how foolish we would look to the rest of the world.' 
The wool textile industry was not ashamed of the fact .that it needed extensive tariff and quota protection to survive. 
World-wide, the textile industry pays about the same for its machinery, plant and raw materials. And, in Australia, we achieve the same output from these machines and materials as other countries do. 
The prime reason for differences in product costs is the price of labour - high here and low in most countries we import from. 
The result, without greater protection than we have now, is a foregone conclusion.' 

 Mr Kelly said that the wool textile industry was currently conducting research to support current and future submissions to government on the industry's actions and needs 'in the interest not only of the industry itself but also the nation as a whole.' 
One other matter which I think is serious enough to raise at this stage is that one of the major effects of the Budget brought down last night will be to increase substantially the costs and the disadvantages of industries which are established outside the metropolitan areas in each State. For one thing, the increase in telephone bills will hit much harder at industry which is  established outside the metropolitan areas than it will hit those industries established in capital cities. I suggest that it is time for some examination of the possibility of paying a bounty on goods manufactured by industries in decentralised areas rather than have them compete on the open market. The employment figures prove the seriousness of the situation. It will be criminal ineptitude if the Government continues to allow people to wander into the capital cities and create the morass of urban problems which are choking our cities, without attempting to save the living and employment conditions of people in provincial and country towns. It is a very serious problem. I hope someone on the Government side will take it sufficiently seriously to have a look at it before there is a complete collapse of the textile industry in Australia, especially those textile operations which are decentralised. 
I had not intended to speak in this debate but certain things have been said tonight which are, to say the least, irresponsible statements which could mislead any person who may subsequently be looking through the parliamentary debates - if there is such a person. The honourable member for. Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  made great play about the Australian Labor Party's policy on primary industry. The honourable member suggested that people who live in country areas would be worse off under a Labor government. I point out to him that any of the farmers in our community who recall the situation with regard to farm incomes at the time when these much vaunted protectors of the country people took office in  1949  will be pleased to recognise one fact which emerges from an examination of the situation after  20  years of Country Party assistance. The farmers are bankrupt now but they were prosperous in  1949.  If this is the type of support that Country Party policy gives to the farmers then the sooner someone without that sort of policy gets into office the better off the farmers will be.  1  want to deal with some matters about which I thought the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley),  who is supposed to be an expert on matters relating to conferences, would have been aware. The honourable member made some very serious allegations and said that Labor Party supporters agree to support majority decisions. The honourable member appeared to suggest that this was an undemocratic practice. I believe that it is an absolutely democratic practice. The honourable member said that there was something wrong when a person went to the people and asked them to elect him on the basis of the policy of a political party and then to accept that Party's policy. I suggest that no Liberal Party or Country Party members would be in this House if their parties had not endorsed them. This is one of the facts of political life and those people who would deny it are plainly dishonest. If those people who come into this place on the platforms of those  2  parties are not prepared to support those platforms they should at least have the honesty to tell the organisations which they purport to represent and the electors whose votes they sought on the basis of supporting particular policies that they are not prepared to be Liberal Party candidates or Country Party candidates and that they will run as independent candidates. 
It is plainly dishonest for honourable members on the other side of the House to suggest that they come into this place as anything but representatives of a political party. They are not big enough to get up and say that they could not have been elected without the support of a party. 
They try to kid themselves that the are something special but when the crunch comes they vote as they are told. We have seen today an indication of exactly how they perform and how their policies are formed. Their policies are formed in exactly the same way as those of the Communist Party or the Fascist Party. The leader of the party writes down his thoughts and his followers stand up one after the other and spruik them in exactly the same manner. When we look at the personnel of the new Ministry and the array of former Ministers we can be sure that we are in for a Red-baiting session. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has decided that only those people who are prepared to support extreme right wing ideas will gain his support because the Liberal Party is such a democratic organisation that its members have absolutely no say in who will run the Party and no say in what policies will be finally formulated. I am talking about the policies which come into this Parliament in the form of Bills, not the myths from conferences which arc held and where members can let off steam but have no actual say in the policies of the Party. The members of the Government's policy making body are not elected and members of that Party have no say in who becomes a member of that body. The fact of the matter is that one man is elected leader and to him, as with Allah, all wisdom is attributed. I suggest that no man in Australia has that sort of wisdom.  1  think that the events which have taken place' in recent months have proved how wrong the Government parties have been in trusting all their eggs in the one basket. If the idea of the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  - an idea which h.;s been proposed by other honourable 'members - were adopted whereby members of (he Party elected the ministry, that Party could talk about democracy. 
At the moment the situation in the Government parties is that the Cabinet governs the country. Members of the Cabinet are selected. It is not an elected body. There are more people appointed to offices in the Liberal Party by the Prime Minister and who hold their tenure of office bv the grace of his goodwill than there are persons not appointed to office. I think someone on the back bench on the Government side who has not at this time any such appointment should think about this. They are outnumbered by the Prime Minister's personal appointees. They are outnumbered by those people who owe an allegience to the Prime Minister because of the grace of their office. This Parliament is the place where the Government of the nation is supposed to take place. I think the events of today, particularly this evening, suggest we are in for a session of Parliament during which honourable members opposite will be trying to prove just how extremely right wing they are in order to curry favour with the Prime Minister. This is the real crux behind the remarks of the honourable member for Chisholm. 
We heard tonight the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  make a not dissimilar type of speech. The honourable member for Diamond Valley obviously recognises the fact that if he is not extremely careful he will not gain preferment at some future date. As both those honourable gentlemen probably think they have sufficient ability to justify their eventual appointment as Ministers, they are placed in the unfortunate position of having to curry favour by crawling to the Prime Minister if they want to receive a promotion. If they are not prepared to do this they will find themselves in the same position as the honourable member for Moreton and the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  and, as I understand it, the position in which the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  would have been had it not been for the intervention of the Prime Minister's wife. This is a dangerous situation and one which is of no use to this Parliament and more impor tantly of no use to this nation. I say this because it is only by a concensus and a blending of ideas and a cultivation of opposition within the organs of government where arguments are put for and against propositions that real decisions can be made. If all the people in any organisation are of like mind then that organisation will wither and die because it lacks the ability to renew itself. That is what is wrong with the Liberal Party at the moment. That is what is wrong with the Government at the moment. It is being crucified on the altar of uniformity. If it had a few more differences on ideological grounds and fewer differences on personal grounds the Government of this country would be much sounder and the future of the country would be in better hands. 
I suggest that what we have heard tonight is the start of the collapse of any ideas of the Australian Government and the start of a serious smoke screen. This Parliament should look very seriously at the situation where a man who holds the ideas, and has professed those ideas in this Parliament, that the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  holds, is now in a position of authority in this Parliament. There is no person in this Parliament, and I doubt whether there are many people in Australia, holding the extreme ideas that this man holds, and for these ideas he is rewarded. It is quite obvious that the majority of members of the Government accept the position of apartheid and all it stands for. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. House adjourned  at  10.42 p.m. 
The honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  complained about the time available to him in this debate. I was rather surprised to hear this because he was unable to use up the time that was allocated to him. We are debating a statement on foreign affairs which was made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in this House last week. This was an interesting statement because it was based on those things which the Government apparently feels are important to Australia's interests. The statement appeared to ignore totally large sections of the world. If one examines the statement one might imagine that there are no such places as the Far East, Egypt and Israel. They are not mentioned in the statement. 
The honourable member asks: 'Why should they be?' I would have thought that, as a former Minister for Foreign Affairs, he would have considered the events in the Middle East to be of some importance to Australia and to the world. My opinion of this rather strange omission - and I think it is the only conclusion that we could reach - is that these countries have been omitted because the Australian Government does not know how to put its point of view on these matters as the Americans have not told Australia what their view is. 
We have heard a lot about China in this debate. We have heard a lot about the Australian Government's about-face on China. Not very long ago, the representatives of this Government in seeking reelection published large red maps with arrows pointing downwards, suggesting that the Chinese would invade Australia. 
Well, the only reason why people of such intellectual incapacity bellieve that the Chinese will come down for the next election is this: They look at a map hanging on a wall and, because China is above Australia on that map, they think that the Chinese must come down to Australia. Like an organisation which still exists in the United States - the Flat Earth Society - they have not recognised that a sphere is round and that, because of the pull of gravity, anything which comes down must use some type of energy and motivation to come down. A great deal of Australia's foreign policy is based on the belief that everything shown on a map hanging on the wall to be above Australia will come down to Australia. 
I should like to point out something which has not been mentioned in this debate but which indicates clearly the basis of the Australian Government's sudden interest in China. In his statement the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: 
On Mtn May the Prime Minister announced that the Government had as its long term objective to normalise om' bilateral relations with the People's Republic of China. 
The previous, speaker slipped back a couple of years when he referred to it as Communist China. This description is not fashionable with Government members at present -  - to which end it had been decided to explore the possibility of establishing a dialogue with the Government of the People's Republic. 
There is not any mention in the statement and to my knowledge no mention has been made in the House, that at the SEATO Council meeting in London  Mr Rogers,  the United States Secretary of State, indicated that the United States wanted to encourage a growing role by China in Asia which was constructive rather than destructive. It is somewhat strange that that statement by the United States Secretary of State was made a few months before the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  indicated that Australia wanted to establish bilateral relationships. lt may be only a coincidence but it is one of those coincidences that are oft repeated, that when the United States makes a foreign policy decision the Australian Government follows along like a yapping puppy dog. I do not know whether as a nation we have a mind of our own but if we have it certainly has not been used in foreign affairs for a long time. 
Tonight we heard a speech from the Prime Minister. As Prime Minister of Australia he is a person who should be entitled to the respect of every Australian. When he makes a speech on a matter as important as foreign affairs he should be expected to make statements to which people can refer and which can be accepted as being responsible. Not long ago a Minister for Defence left the Ministry as a result of differences that arose because he gave briefings to a certain journalist. Tt is obvious that the Prime Minister has reversed this practice and is now taking his briefings on foreign affairs from the 'Bulletin'. The Prime Minister's speech did no credit to the Parliament, to himself or to Australia. It was a personal fandangle designed to try to belittle the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  for initiatives which he took and on which every responsible newspaper in Australia congratulated him and said that he had done a service to Australia. The Prime Minister's speech was the speech of a man who knew that he had been caught out by the initiatives taken by the Leader of the Opposition. It was the speech of a man who thought that the only way by which he could justify bis own inaction was to try deliberately to distort the actions of the Leader of the Opposition. This is not unusual. In fact it has been a regular practice in foreign affairs debates in the Australian Parliament. 
One wonders what the new slogans will be. We may well have heard one the other night from an honourable member opposite. I know that honourable members opposite think it is better to have an electoral slogan based on gimmickry than to go on the Government's appalling record in any area of government. It is easier to sell a slogan than a record of failure. Not long ago we had the slogan 'AH the way with LBJ'. What a tragedy that led us to - hundreds of Australians dead - and we are leaving Vietnam in exactly the same situation as when we went there, with a dictator in charge and when even VicePresident Ky will not contest the elections because he says that they are too crook even for him. I do not know what the Government would suggest have been the results of our 5 or 6 years of involvement in Vietnam. They certainly have not paved the way for the election of a democratic government there. The former Prime Minister was going to go Waltzing Matilda with someone. I think that the present Prime Minister most likely would like to find a way of sticking with tricky Dicky. 
It is probably as good as the type of rubbish that your people will be churning out for elections. 
I address a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Does the Conciliation and Arbitration Act provide that ballots can be ordered on matters on which the Commission considers the opinion of union members should be obtained? Have any such ballots been ordered by the Commission? If not, will the Minister seek a report from the  President  of the Commission as to why these provisions of the Act have never been applied? 
 I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Adelaide making a statement. 
It is time that the opportunity was given to members of this House to correct deliberately false statements which are made by Ministers at question time. These statements cannot be debated because no opportunity is given to debate them. I believe that the only way in which this situation can be overcome is for the House to exert the right of members to raise matters by leave in this place. The Ministry is not the only body in the House which is entitled to participate in the administration of the affairs of Parliament. Parliament must make its own decisions. I move this motion because I believe that by continually using its numbers and its powers to gag debates so that statements can go unchallenged, the Government, and the Ministery especially, are deliberately depriving this nation of a proper democratic process of government through procedures. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that de facto wives are covered by the provisions of the States Grants (Deserted Wives) Act. 
Are the same de facto wives excluded from the provisions of the Social Services Act; if so, why. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
How many age and invalid pensioners will not receive anincrease under the pension proposals announced in the 1971 Budget. 
What percentage of all age and invalid pensioners does this represent. 
asked the Minister for Social Service, upon notice: 
Are Australian women who have entered into a bigamous association with a migrant who was married in another country entitled to a widow's pension, provided they meet other requirements. 
Are children of bigamous marriages regarded as qualifying children for widows' pensions. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What would be the cost in a full year of increasing the pensioner funeral benefit to (a) $150 and (b) $100. 
What would be the cost of providing this benefit to pensioners qualifying under (a) the new means test used for the two most recent rises in basic pensions and (b) the means test applied for pensioner medical benefits. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
What is the average cost of investigating claims for deserted wife's pension. 
What percentage of claims are rejected. 
What percentage of accepted claims are subsequently cancelled, for reasons other than increased income, age of children or re-marriage. 
Does the cost of investigating claims which are rejected exceed the cost of continued payments. 
I do not intend to delay the House long at this late hour. However, I do wish to raise again a matter that I raised about 2 weeks ago in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House which has apparently not raised a ripple of thought among supporters of the Government. I refer to the very critical situation which is developing in non-metropolitan areas in relation to employment. In the last couple of days we have heard some comments by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and quite a spate df figures which, I assume, were intended to indicate that there was no employment problem at present in Australia and there was no likelihood of any employment problem developing. On the previous occasion I pointed out, and I do so again, that the current situation is there are more people in the non-metropolitan areas of Victoria in receipt of the unemployment benefit than there are in the metropolitan area. As the population ratio is something like 1 :  2i,  this is a fairly serious situation. 
The situation in Geelong, which is in my electorate, is very serious. The number of people in receipt of the unemployment benefit in the Geelong employment district, which is somewhat larger than the city of Geelong, represents 14 per cent of the State's recipients of the unemployment benefit. The ratio of the population of the Geelong employment district to the population of the rest of Victoria is about 1 : 25. It can therefore be seen that the situation is very serious. Some time ago the Department of Labour and National Service produced a publication dealing with the problems surrounding the employment of women in certain provincial centres. One would have thought that, the publication having been produced, some action would have been taken to provide the necessary employment for women in these centres. Apparently the Department decided that its responsibility ceased at the point it produced the publication because little or no action has been taken. I think this is a correct interpretation of the situation. 
The present difficulty could develop Into a serious economic problem for a number of provincial centres. I am not fully aware of the situation in other centres in Victoria or, for that matter, the whole of Australia, but I am aware of the situation in my own electorate. The woollen textile industry is in a state of recession. Over a period of time I made representations to the former Minister for Supply concerning the situation in the woollen textile industry. I am not aware whether the present Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  has notified mills of orders which, it was indicated to me in June, had been allocated. Some weeks ago I did send a telegram to him asking whether that information could be sent. I have not received any reply to that communication. Therefore I am not in a position to know whether the Minister has notified the mills. 
I was informed by the former Minister for Supply that 2 orders had been granted to Geelong mills. I understand that a small order was also granted to the RS and S mill, which has been in desperate trouble for some time and which is at present operating at something like a third of its normal staff component. In an area of confined employment opportunities such a reduction of staff is extremely serious. There has been a considerable drop in the level of employment in the textile industry. The drop has been considerably greater than what would be reflected in the unemployment figures. This is due to the high percentage of married women who are employed in this industry. Whilst the dropping out of employment of married women would not show up in the figures of the recipients of benefits it would very seriously affect the economy of the area and of the families concerned because the income of these women has become a part of the normal income of the family and the spending rates and standards of living have been geared accordingly. At this stage it does not appear that the situation is improving, and this is a matter to which I think the Government should be giving serious consideration. 
I think that the situation which exists in Geelong most likely exists in a number of other provincial cities throughout Australia. Although capital cities are important, I do not think that many members of this Parliament - perhaps some would - would want to see the situation develop where the Australian community was finally convinced that the only places in which opportunities for employment and future advancement existed were in the capital cities. This situation is developing, and the lack of any form of initiative being taken by this Government in this field is adding to the problem. We are reaching the stage where people would be entitled to think that governments in Australia want people to Live in the capital cities because these are the places where amenities are provided and where governments create the cheapest form of living. It is much dearer to live in country areas. People would be entitled to think that governments support this policy in every possible way. 
As I said, I do not intend to take up the time of the House for much longer, but I want to raise one other matter which I think is equally important and which requires urgent action by the Commonwealth Government. It is a matter which I think every honourable member would support if he had a a free vote on it. I think it is time that the Australian Government adopted a far more serious approach to the problem of providing relief to the refugees from East Pakistan. I do not believe that the Australian Government has done anything like it should have done in accepting its obligations to do something about what is quite clearly the greatest human tragedy of this century. The Indian Government is charged with the responsibility of spending $ 1,200m a year to provide food for these refugees. It cannot reasonably be expected that the Indian Government can afford to spend this amount of money in order to provide food for refugees from a neighbouring country. Regretfully, the Australian Government for reasons best known to itself, has chosen almost to opt out of the field of providing relief. I do not think that this does us good as Australians and I do not think it will enhance our standing in the world in the future. 1 believe that we should provide a level of relief which will maintain the standards of living which this country would hope that the countries of Asia would strive to achieve. I think that this is something which this Parliament should and must do. I hope that the Government will take seriously the fact that it has earned the obvious international reputation of being a miser in this field, and give relief at a far greater rate. Within a month 100,000 children from East Pakistan are expected to die. We are told that the Australian Government has done a magnificent job in giving $1.5m in relief for the refugees from East Pakistan. I must admit that$1. 5m is a lot of money, but it is not much money in the context of the Australian economy and it is a very poor contribution to overcoming what is a very serious human problem. I would hope that this question will be treated far more seriously and with far more feeling by the Australian Government. I make this appeal and I believe that every member of this Parliament will agree with the sentiments that I express. I only hope that collectively those who hold the rank of Minister, in their deliberations on the policy decisions of this Parliament which unfortunately are made outside the Parliament - will give expression to the wishes of the members of this Parliament 
Question resolved in theaffirmative. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am surprised to hear an honourable member as young as the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  saying that he believes that the job of dealing with the nations problems is too big for the Government. That is what he implied. He made 2 or 3 references to the size of the nation. The nation was the same size at the time of federation in 1901, and it has not changed materially since then. Obviously, the problems have grown, but so has the prosperity of the nation. I think that the most ridiculous set of arguments advanced in this House were, unfortunately, those advanced by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  In some sort of an effort to justify the present rates of pensions and social services, which I am sure the Minister is not satisfied with, he collated the 1949 figures using price indices and by some strange quirck of the imagination projected those rates into the future and imagined they would still apply despite the changes in the living standards of very many in the community, despite the changes in the average national income and despite all the other changes which have taken place in our community- He then used those figures as a basis for justifying the current rates of pensions. I wonder whether the Minister would be prepared to do that in all circumstances and in all economic cases. I very much doubt whether any responsible person is prepared to suggest that the standards of 1949 should and would be maintained by a Government in any modern country today. But the Minister seems to think that that is some magic period. For my purpose now I use the single rate age pension, which is the higher value pension at the moment, as a percentage of average male earnings. That is a far more relevant comparison and one which the Government likes to use on other occasions when it wants to criticise people or suggest that people are well off. The rate for the single age pension in 1949 as a percentage of average male earnings was 24 per cent. The single rate pension in 1971 is 20.3 per cent of average male earnings. In 1949 the married rate pension was 24 per cent of average male earnings. It was the same as the single rate pension. The married rate pension today would be something closer to 18 per cent of the average male earnings. 
 Child endowment for the first child was the basis of great election programmes and promises by the Liberal Party in 1949. When that was introduced, it represented 2.6 per cent of average male earnings. Today it represents .6 per cent of average male earnings. It was introduced as a result of a completely cynical election promise because it has never been altered since it was introduced in 1950. Child endowment for 3 children under 16 years of age represented 11.3 per cent of average male earnings in 1949. Today it represents 4 per cent of average male earnings. 1 think that that in itself is sufficient evidence to deal with the Minister's claims that families and pensioners are better off today. If pensioners are receiving a lower percentage of average male earnings, they are worse off. This is the position despite considerable prosperity in Australia and despite regular statements about what a prosperous nation Australia is. It would appear that we are a prosperous nation when it comes to spending money on things which are not accountable to the Parliament. When spending money on such things as the Fill aircraft, $l00m is nothing. But when it comes to finding money to ease the burdens of those less fortunate than the majority of people in our community, that money has to be totally and fully accountable. 
I will never forget the situation on the first evening I spent in this Parliament. It was the occasion of the presentation of the 1967 Budget. Tonight I heard the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  say that this Government has raised pensions every year. On the first occasion that I was in the Parliament for the reading of the Budget Speech the then Treasurer, the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  gave the pensioners a great big dose of sympathy. The money could not be found to provide them with anything else but sympathy. The honourable member for Griffith has said that a pension rise was granted in the 1970-71 Budget and another pension rise was granted 6 months later. I just wonder how cynical people can become. On the occasion of the presentation of the 1970-71 Budget this was said to be a magnificent achievement. It was only great public pressure which brought about a further 50c pension rise. That pension rise was qualified with the introduction of the fourth means test that has been brought into operation on age pensions in Australia. We have a means test for supplementary assistance, we have a so-called tapered means test, and now we have a means test for the standard rate pension. I think that the manner of operation of the standard rate pension should be pointed out to the House. A person in receipt of the full standard base rate pension, with virtually no other income, has received since March of this year an increase of $1.75 in the pension. Persons outside the fringe area of that base rate pension have received no increase whatsoever. I do not think that the Minister would doubt that since the last rise in the 1970-71 Budget there has been a considerable movement in prices. But those pensioners who are part pensioners, who do not qualify under this fringe benefit provision, are penalised to the extent of 50c for every $1 by which they increase their income. There has been no alteration in the means test to cope with these increased prices. Such people are penalised by the Government to the extent of 50c for every $1 by which they increase their incomes because their pensions are reduced but they receive no compensatory increases in pensions. They are debarred from increases in pensions and if they are capable of increasing their incomes they are effectively debarred from doing that too. 
A cruel means test has been placed on these people. Not only are they not to receive any additional income, by way of pension increases but also they are to be taxed at the rate of 50 per cent on any additional income which they earn privately to cover the increases in costs which are taking place in our community. They cannot look for any increase at least- until the next Budget if the present policies of the Government continue, and we are not in the position to predict what turn the policies will take. It was only 2 years ago that the tapered means test was introduced. According to the Government, everyone was to receive a pension. Listening to Government speakers tonight, one would imagine that the only people who can expect to receive rises in the future are those people on the standard rate pension. I think it is fair to say that the Government has played a cruel confidence trick on at least 17 per cent of age and invalid pensioners in our community. They have no avenue by which they can realistically expect to increase their incomes to cope with increasing prices. The means test limits have not been altered for a number of years. Such pensioners are fined 50c for every additional $1 they earn, if they can earn an additional $1. If they are not capable of earning an additional $1 they receive nothing because they have no way of increasing their incomes. 
I turn to another matter which I believe is of serious consequence. It is the present rate of funeral benefit. A pensioner responsible for paying for the funeral of the pensioner partner receives assistance of S40 from the Government. This represents approximately 10 per cent of the cost of an average funeral today, and would most likely represent considerably less than 10 per cent in country areas. A couple of days ago, I asked the Minister for Social Services a question relating to the costs of increasing that benefit. If the Minister has studied the figures he will realise what is involved. I asked the Minister what the cost would be of increasing the funeral benefit from $40 to $150 which would cope with a little more than one-third of the total cost of the average funeral. The total cost to the Treasury of that sort of increase would be approximately $3m. I do not think that any honourable member on the Government side would suggest that $3m is a tremendous amount of money. In fact, in the context of a $8,000m Commonwealth Budget it is a very small amount of money, and it surprises me that the Government has not seen fit to increase this benefit. To increase the benefit to even $100, which is totally unrealistic in line with today's prices, would cost the Government $1.7m. Yet there has been no increase in the Budget, not even a $10 increase to relieve a pensioner of part of the financial burden of the funeral of his or her partner. 
It is tragic to see pensioners putting away 5c a week to try to insure themselves against a pauper's funeral when the Government is not prepared to spend less than $2m to provide something like an adequate funeral benefit. The amounts of money concerned are so small that they would not be noticed in the Commonwealth Budget. One wonders what devastating effect it would have on the Australian economy if the surplus for this year, instead of being $600m, were reduced to $597m. I do not think it would have any effect but it would provide pensioners with some relief from a massive cost incurred at a time when they are completely incapable of meeting that cost. 
One important matter I draw attention to is the serious position which is evolving because of the ever increasing cost of local government rates for pensioners who own their own homes. These pensioners, irrespective of their total income, do not qualify for the supplementary assistance allowance which exists for pensioners who are paying rent. In some cases, because of the alterations in the character of areas in which people live and the alterations in valuations, the levels of rates and the maintenance of property are becoming a burden almost equivalent, if not equivalent, to the burden which is incurred by a pensioner paying rent. I believe that some consideration should be given to assistance in this field. It seems to me unfair that a person who has saved sufficient money to purchase a home and therefore has somewhere to live is not able to obtain any form of assistance to cover the cost of maintaining that home. 
I quote an extreme example of the type of situation which a combination of Commonwealth laws creates in our community. A person with an income of $32,000, who is anything but poor, and who pays $200 a year in municipal rates receives a Commonwealth tax reimbursement of $140 on that $200. He therefore in fact pays only $60 in rates to the municipal authority. A pensioner couple with an income of $1,586, which is approximately the married rate pension, and who pay $100 in rates receive no reimbursement from the Commonwealth and no assistance from any other authority. Thus for a house of half the value a person with a twentieth of the income has to pay $40 more in rates than does the person with a $32,000 income. This is a serious anomaly, and I believe that if the Commonwealth is to provide assistance for rates, whether it be by tax reimbursement or in any other form, the reimbursement should be on an equitable basis and all persons should be able to share. Because a pensioner does not receive enough income to pay tax, that pensioner is denied the opportunity to participate in a scheme of subsidising rates. This is a serious matter and one which should be considered. There are obviously other anomalies in the tax laws but I am dealing only with those that relate to social services. 1 want also to deal with the pensioner medical scheme. It is becoming increasingly apparent that the drugs which are available to pensioners are being changed with considerable rapidity and are causing severe heartburning to many pensioners who. having become used to one type of drug, are denied this drug and then asked to utilise some new drug which they do not trust or in which they do not have the same faith. In many cases of illness with elderly people, as with young people, confidence in the remedies provided are quite often as important as the remedies themselves. I direct attention also to surgical aids. Under the pensioner medical scheme a pensioner may have various types of operations but such things as colostomy bags which become necessary as a result of an operation are not available to the pensioner under the scheme. The pensioner has to pay the full cash price to the chemist. This is a totally ridiculous situation. The Government is saying to the pensioner that he must have an operation to save his life or to prolong bis life. The operation is carried out and then the pensioner is told: We will reduce your standard of living by X number of dollars a week because you have to buy all the equipment necessary to maintain yourself for the rest of your years on this earth. 
A worse case is the cost of pacemaker heart units, which cost $600 or $700 and are not available under the scheme. The full price has to be paid by the pensioner or the money has to be found by some charitable means. This is not a sum of money which a pensioner can afford. One of these units quite obviously is not placed in a person's body unless it is absolutely necessary. This is something which I believe the Government should provide for a person whose life depends on such a unit being fitted. It seems to me to be immoral to say to a person: 'If you can pay $800 for a pacemaker unit you can live. If you cannot you can go away and die'. That is the situation at the moment. 
I want to deal briefly with the position of pensioners' children. There is at the moment no way in which a pensioner's children can adequately be provided with a norma) education. In any education system they are second class citizens. 1 believe that if a person qualifies for a pension, especially an invalid pension, and has young children, some scheme should be evolved whereby his children can be provided with the wherewithal to obtain the education to which they are entitled and which is within their capacity to receive. We prolong the poverty cycle by forcing children to become self-conscious of the fact that they cannot participate in a normal manner in the affairs of their school because of the incomes of their parents. We prolong the cycle by creating a second class student in denying children of pensioners the normal opportunities. 1 wonder what a pensioner's child thinks when the rest of the school, especially if it is a high school, is coming to Canberra to have a look at Parliament House, which I would hope would be a part of their education, but because of the costs involved the child cannot have that part of his education. It is also true to say that in most oases the children of pensioners are forced to leave school at an earlier age, unless they are extremely lucky, because of the incomes of their families and the economic circumstances in which they find themselves. They are in fact denied the normal opportunities of other children in the community because of the economic circumstances of their parents. I believe it should be a high priority item on any government's agenda to ensure that these children are given the same opportunities as other children. 
Finally I mention women who become involved in bigamous marriages. At the moment there is no coverage for them in the social services legislation. It is unfortunately true that a small number of women become involved unknowingly in bigamous marriages. There is very little protection for them. If they have children of the marriage and become technically deserted wives when they find out that the husband is already married and is incapable of maintaining them, the only way they can obtain any relief from the Commonwealth is by an act of grace payment from the 
Treasury. This is a most unsatisfactory situation because they do not know their rights. I believe it should be possible to place the victims of bigamous marriages in the same circumstances as deserted wives. There are not many people involved and the cost would not be great. I believe that a humanitarian service would thus be provided to a group of unfortunate women in our community. 
asked  the Minister for Social  Services, upon notice: 
What is the average cost of processing claims for unemployment benefits. 
Does the total cost of investigation exceed the cost that would be incurred if acceptance of claims was automatic. 
If so, will he examine the possibility of automatic payment of short term claims with investigation taking place after the period of unemployment exceeds the normal average of claim duration. 
asked the Minister for 
Defence, upon notice: 
What was the cost of recruiting for the (a) Navy (b) Army and (c) Air Force in each of the past 10 years. 
What was the cost per accepted recruit in each Service in each of those years. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How often has the Commonwealth-States Officials Committee on Decentralisation met during the past year. 
Has the Government received recommendations from the Committee. 
If so, when can action be expected on these recommendations. 
If the Committee has not met, will he explain why. 
I ask the Minister for Supply whether it is a fact that officers of the Government Aircraft Factories have been told that Government Aircraft Factories are to be merged with Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd almost immediately? If this is a fact will the Government retain a majority interest in the merged enterprise? Is it also a fact that at the moment another major Australian company is negotiating for a takeover of Commonwealth Aircraft Factories? 
I rise to support the amendment. I believe that in doing so I should make it clear to the House that the endeavours by the Government to prove that the Post Office should be run as a paying business concern are somewhat futile and that the efforts of members of the Australian Country Party in this field are tragic when one thinks of the levels of services that are provided at considerably less than cost to the people they represent. I was surprised to find members of the Country Party advocating that people in country areas should meet the cost of the services provided to them by the Post Office; but that is the logic behind what they have been saying. I think that the members of the Country Party who have advocated this policy should go back to their electorates and tell their electors what they have suggested. The reaction of the electors would be interesting. 
I should suggest to the right honourable member for Fisher that it would be better for his electors if he were to do his own homework. The Post Office provides a communications service which is vital to the nation. The Post Office is the largest business in the nation. It performs a function essential to our trade, commerce and social life. I believe that if the logic of the Government's arguments were to be carried through to its norma! conclusion the Post Office would be doing what the railways have been doing for many years, that is, cutting down on nonprofitable operations. Imagine the scream we would hear from the public if telephone exchanges that were non-profitable were closed down instead of upgraded! Yet that is the only basis of a proposal that the Post Office should make a profit and be run as a business operation. No member of this Parliament or of the community would suggest that private business organisations should be expected to maintain as a public service large areas of non-profit making industry. A private business organisation in such a position would immediately close down its non-profitable areas and keep the profitable sections of its operations going. But the Post Office is expected to carry on providing many services which cannot reasonably be expected to be profitable. 
How could the country mail runs, for example, be expected to be profitable or business-like operations? They are services to the community. The stupidity - I think stupidity' is the correct word - of any such suggestion can be seen by the fact that the mail charges in the capital cities have become so high and deliveries so slow that courier services are springing up everywhere and taking away from the Post Office the cream of the mail business. Apparently the people who provide these services can make a profit out of their operations. The result is the Post Office is increasingly losing its more lucrative business to private operators. It should be remembered that this business would normally assist to compensate the Post Office for its losses on its less profitable operations. 
I believe it is also wrong to suggest that the interest charged on Post Office accounts is an honest charge. Most of the moneys which have been provided over the years to the Post Office have come from revenue and at no interest cost yet the Post Office is charged interest on this money, thus adding to the difficulty of the Post Office in providing its services. The increased charges are inflationary in the extreme. They are higher than the general increases in costs in the community. 
One of the things which I have noticed about honourable members opposite is that the only thing that ever worries them is a rise in prices. According to their monetary theory charges can be increased by 30 per cent without adding to costs, but an increase of 6 per cent in wages must result in a 50 per cent increase in costs. I would like to hear a supporter of the Government stand up and say that he honestly does not believe that people in Australia should be paid a living wage. Yet that is the argument the Government puts forward in this House day in and day out. Anybody who stands up in this House and says that a postman delivering mail in the streets of any city is being paid  a  decent living wage is either  a  fool, does not know what he is talking about or has no thought for the standard of living prevailing throughout the community. 
I am saying it because that is the sort of thing the Government is putting forward. I challenge the honourable member to stand up and deny what I have said. I do not think the honourable member has any interest whatsoever in the people in his electorate who work for a living. If he had he would be saying that the people in the low income group should be paid at least a decent wage. I doubt whether even the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  would suggest that the wages applicable in the lower grades of the Post Office are anything like the wages he would prefer to see paid if the Post Office were in a financial position to pay them. 
That is right. At least they have had a rise since we last had one. I wish to draw attention to the effects of increased postal and telephone charges on country areas. Although members of the Country Party are apparently not concerned about the effect of these increases on country areas, I am. I want to draw attention to the effect that these increases will have on industries in country areas that are struggling to maintain an existence because of increased costs in general. The increase in telephone charges would appear at a glance to be relatively minor, but to a business operating outside of the metropolitan area the impost will be staggering. For instance, a firm operating in Dandenong in Melbourne can communicate with almost all of its service suppliers in the metropolitan area on the basis of a unit fee call of 4c, as it is at present, or 4.7c, as it will be if this legislation is passed. A person can talk on the telephone for as long as he wishes at the rate I have mentioned, but a country or non-metropolitan industry making the same use of the telephone will be charged many times more. 
Country or non-metropolitan industries also suffer various other disadvantages, such as a slowness in communication and a slowness in deliveries. The added hardship of increased telephone charges can be the deciding factor in whether struggling businesses can establish themselves in non-metropolitan areas in preference to metropolitan areas. The increased charges will impose a very heavy burden on these industries. I believe it is a burden which could have been avoided if a different system of charging had been initiated at the time of the introduction of subscriber trunk dialling. It is, unfortunately, probably too late to change now without incurring great expenditure. However, I think it is fair to say that some sort of adjustment should be made in the telephone charges levied on decentralised industries. These industries have to pay a very stiff penalty for being established outside of a metropolitan area. 
Let us examine the situation in my own electorate of Corio. A dealer in Dandenong can make an unlimited telephone call to one of the oil installations or firms in the Newport/ Williamstown area for 4c at the moment, but a firm making a similar call from Geelong to this area, which is almost exactly the same distance - 32 miles - will be charged something like 20c for every 3 minutes. That is unfair discrimination which has a limiting effect on the establishment of new industries in country areas. I do not believe that the rate of establishment of industries in non-metropolitan areas is great enough for the good of the nation. I think that this is a matter which the national Parliament and the Executive, through the Cabinet, should seriously look at. The increased charges which will be imposed as a result of the implementation of this legislation will add to the burden of industries in non-metropolitan areas. 
Another area which is not of such great significance but which is a constant cause of annoyance, especially to migrants, is the fact that there is no second class mail rate for air mail to continential countries, including the United Kingdom. It is difficult to explain to an English migrant that although a letter or a greeting card can be sent from England to Australia for 8c or 9c, it costs the first-class letter rate to send a similar card in return. This seems to be wrong and I think it is something that could be rectified without great cost to the Post Office. It would satisfy a lot of people who wish to use the mail services, expecailly for greeting cards and that type of mail. Similarly, I believe that the proposed increase in postal charges, as was the case with the earlier increase, will have the effect of reducing the number of Christmas cards that are posted. I think that it would be in the best interests of the Post Office to reintroduce second class mail. I realise that, in effect, there is a second class mail system in that there is no guaranteed delivery on any mail other than priority paid mail on which extra postage has been paid. Second class mail, especially for greeting cards, would enable people who are being priced out of the market to communicate. It would provide a service which I am sure would be effectively utilised and would not add greatly to the costs of the Post Office. 
I have recently had a number of representations from the Beliarine Shire Council, which is a local government body in my electorate. The Council is concerned at the lack of an official post office in the shire and that it does not have available to it the normal service of bulk postage which is provided by the Post Office. The Council, in response to representations, has received replies from the PostmasterGeneral's Department which have indicated that insufficient business exists to warrant such a service. I do not know which came first, the chicken or the egg, but if the postal services are not provided in the area it is doubtful whether business can be generated. If bulk mail facilities, for example, are not available, it is obvious that local businesses will not use the non-official post office which exists. I raise this matter because it has been the subject of a Council resolution recently, and the Council is very concerned about the lack of facilities. 
It is in Drysdale. I mention, too, the conditions under which some members of the Post Office staff are required to work because unsatisfactory premises are being utilised as post offices. I speak especially of the Norlane Post Office which was built, I think, in 1952 or 1953. It is a temporary prefabricated type of building. It has remained in use while the population of the surrounding area has more than doubled. There has been a considerable increase in the number of staff working in that post office and it has become completely unsuitable for the amount of business conducted in the area. 
At one stage, a new post office was imminent but, because of changes in priorities and in the financial situation, I understand that this proposal has receded into the background. The staff is extremely concerned about this post office because it is not a suitable building for the volume of business which is now being conducted in this area. 
Another matter which concerns me is the concessions which are available to pensioners for telephone rentals. Whilst the level of concession as a percentage of the normal charge has been retained, the actual cost of rentals is to be increased. This is a severe burden on people who, in many cases, need a telephone in order to communicate with others. I do not think it would be of great cost to the Government to maintain the level of rentals at or about the level which exist today. I note that the radio and television licence fees have not been increased for pensioners. To have given the benefit of cheaper telephone rentals to them would have been a humane attitude and would have enabled some people to maintain a telephone who now will have to have it cut off because of the proposed increase. The Government is rather sharp with people who do not have the income to meet the cost of the service. 
I support the amendment. I believe that it is irresponsible to suggest that, dollar for dollar, the Post Office should operate as a business undertaking. Like the State transport systems and many other services which are provided, the Post Office is necessary for the maintenance of communications and of our way of life. If it is required to make a profit on all of its operations, I suggest that the services which are now provided could not possibly be maintained in the future at the prices which would be necessary for the services to be provided, especially in the remoter country areas. If the Post Office was to be a profitable business undertaking, it could operate only from the capital and major cities, something that no-one in this country would stand for, but it is the logical conclusion to the type of policies which are being put forward by the Government. Every person in Australia is entitled to adequate telephone and postal services. Where they cannot be provided without cost to the nation, then the nation must bear the cost. To place that as a tax against business operations and individuals using the services is. I think, bad economics. It adds to the cost in the community and to the inflationary spiral about which Government, supporters appear to be so worried. It is no more than a hidden way of raising taxes. I support the amendment and hope that it will be carried. 
The presentation of the annual Budget is properly a time for national accounting, ft is a time when the Parliament is entitled to examine the record and achievements of the government in office over the previous 12 months. Where a government has been in office  for  a considerable period it is also a time when the Parliament and the people are entitled to examine what has been achieved during that period. In the past 12 months one of the major achievements of the Government has been to destroy completely any confidence which existed in the Australian community in the Government's ability to give sound leadership and to provide constructive thought on the problems of the nation. Another major achievement of the year has been the number of promises made by the Government during the Senate and House of Representatives election campaigns which have been deferred and which for all practical purposes have disappeared from the public record. 
It is quite obvious that many of the promises made by the Government and many of its statements in its platform for re-election in 1969 had and still have no meaning. In any field which we like to examine we can truthfully say that this Parliament and this Government are no longer in command of the nation's affairs. We have a day to day situation where we are not even sure who will come into the Parliament tomorrow as Prime Minister, let alone that we will have a continuity of the policies of the Government. When a change in the Prime Ministership took place earlier this year we were told that the new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  had a mandate because it was the party which was elected to govern and not an individual. If we accept that and accept what the previous Prime Minister put forward as election policies on behalf of that party we have to reject the projected theory that the new Prime Minister had the right to repudiate policies on which the Government sought and obtained its mandate. 
In this debate today, as has been the case over a considerable period of time, the major emphasis of most speakers on the Government side of the House, particularly the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  has been that for all the ills of the nation there are no other villains than the people who belong to trade unions. The Minister for Social Services used such phrases as 'organised sabotage' and 'a deliberate campaign to destroy the national economy'. He projected his own belief that there is a trade unionist behind every tree and a Communist under every bed. In what can be described only as something closely approaching hysteria, he attributed every ill that has ever been heard of in Australia to those people who, according to his point of view, are trying to destroy the national economy and the nation. He said that it was in their interests to do so. I find this difficult to understand. 
It is my belief that the millions of people who belong to trade unions in Australia are responsible people, people whose major interests in life are to provide themselves and their families with a decent standard of living and to live at peace with the community, without taking a very active part in politics - most trade unionists do not take a very active part in politics - without making excessive demands on the community but expecting from the community that which they have a right to expect in a society with a standard of living as high as the Australian society has. It appears that Government members do not agree with this. They do not agree that those people who work for their wages are citizens of equal standing with those who operate businesses or make their money by financial manipulations, by nefarious practices or by manipulating the stock exchange. The latter are the goodies, according to the Government. They are the people we ought to respect; we should not respect the people who produce the goods that create the wealth of the country because they are trying to destroy the economy of the country. 
A campaign has been directed, mainly by members of the Australian Country Party, at creating fear in the rural sections of the economy about the prospects of a reduction in the working week. The people who work in the rural sections work a 44- hour week and not a 40-hour week. The people who are engaged in production in our community, who produce the national wealth, work a 40-hour week. Those people who are engaged in service industries, tertiary industries and those industries which are able to operate only because of the productive capacity of people in business and management to work in other areas, in the main work less than a 40-hour week. Apparently, if a third of the employees work less than  a  40-hour week the nation's economy will not be destroyed. Only those people who create the wealth in the community will not be allowed to have the benefit of the additional leisure that a reduced working week would create. 
One-third of Australians now work less than a 40-hour week, but they are not people who are engaged in production. The crime of those people who would seek to reduce their working hours is that if they reduce their hours the other sections of the community which already have these benefits may well find themselves in difficulty maintaining their situation. Over a long period the Government has been subject to fits of hysteria. Over a few weeks or a few months an hysterical situation has been built up by Government members in relation to some section or other of our national activities. Some of it has been totally irrelevant and some of it relevant. Al the end of such a period we usually have new legislation passed through the Parliament as a matter of urgency. Last session we had a law and order Bill, the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill. 
In 1967 the Defence Force Protection Bill was passed. Back as far as 1961, in one of the great hysterias of all time, we had amendments to the Crimes Act. Those Bills were all forced through thus Parliament in such a way as to give the impression that unless they were passed the whole nation would grind to a stop. They were forced through the Parliament with the belief expressed by the Minister for Social Services paramount in Government thinking, that the nation was about to be destroyed. It is interesting to realise that no people have been charged under the amendments to the Crimes Act in its first 10 years of operation, even though it was found necessary to guillotine the Bill through the Parliament because it was so necessary for the national security. To my knowledge, no-one has been charged under the provisions of the Defence Force Protection Act, despite the fact that people deliberately flouted the Act and deliberately broke the provisions of the Act and brought that fact to the attention of the Attorney-General. 
The Government acted in plain, common hysteria designed to divide the nation. 
That was the basis of those Acts. More recently a similar campaign has been mounted about secret ballots. Government members, quite obviously acting under instructions, have tried to create hysteria about the need for secret ballots before strikes. Unfortunately, someone had not done his homework; but someone else had, and he exposed the fact that the provisions for secret ballots already exist under section 45 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act but they are not applied. State governments friendly to the present Commonwealth Government, governments of kindred spirits, are also providing for secret ballots. But in no dispute involving those State governments where federal awards were involved have any of those State governments ever requested that a ballot be taken. 
It seems to me to be somewhat hypocritical and irresponsible for a government to profess that the provision of this type of legislation would be the end-all and solution for all industrial problems when those provisions already exist and that government has not had either the capacity or the will to use those provisions or request their use. 1 suggest that the basis of the whole proposition is political and that little or no real effort of responsible government has been involved. Trade unionists are people who work for their living. If they lose a day's work through strikes or for any other reason they lose one-fifth of their week's income. They have no way at all of recovering that income. It is a permanent and total loss. I can assure the House that people who are involved in this sort of situation are not easily talked into striking. They are not easily talked into losing the margin over the bread line which they have. 
Many Australian industries pay very low wages which nowhere near approach the figures for the national average male wage so often quoted by Government members. About 70 per cent of Australians earn less than the average male wage, and a good proportion have a take home pay which is less than half that amount. So to lose onefifth of one week's income in a high price, high interest economy such as we have is not a step to be taken lightly. We have heard much talk about inflation. We are told by the Government often enough that the solution to inflation is for those people who work for their wages, and only those people, to accept a situation in which they will cease to have rising incomes, in which no increases in their incomes will take place in future. If only the wage earners would stop asking for wage rises all of the nation's problems could be solved, Government members say. It may be more true to say that if we had an effective Government in this country the nation's problems would be on the way to solution. But it is not true to say that if wage earners were to reduce their standard of living progressively, as advocated by the Government, their problems would be solved. 
I think we should have a short look at some of the inflationary actions which have been taken by the Government. The Budget this year does not contain payroll tax. It is not a budgetary item because it has been transferred to the States. But in Victoria payroll tax this year has increased by 75 per cent. That is not a bad increase in a tax which is known to be inflationary and which is known to increase costs by at least double the amount they normally would increase. 
Hospital charges in Victoria have increased by 50 per cent. This increase is not likely to affect those people who do not get sick but it is a tragic situation for persons who do, even if they are able to afford to cover themselves with health insurance under the scheme which was introduced by the Government. We were told at the time of the last election that this scheme would involve a very small increase for contributors. Hospital benefit contributions in Victoria have increased by one-third, substantially above the increases which have taken place in wages, I suggest. The cost of telephone calls is going up by 20 per cent and the cost of stamps has risen by 40 per cent in 12 months. Interest rates have risen 20 per cent in 2 to 3 years. Is the Government suggesting that these actions, which it has taken itself, are not inflationary? These costs have to be borne by wage earners in greater proportion than by most other sections of the community, and wage earners have less capacity to recover increased costs than do most other sections of the community. 
During question time today the Prime Minister indicated that a substantial pro portion - he made it sound as though it was more than a small proportion of those persons unemployed - were in fact unemployable. If one takes the trouble to look at the eastern States of Australia and examine the particulars concerning persons who are in receipt of unemployment benefits and examine where they are located, the only conclusion one can draw is that the Prime Minister thinks that the people who live in non-metropolitan areas are mainly unemployable. I would not subscribe to that theory for one moment. These are the facts: Those people who are beyond doubt proven to be unemployed and who are in receipt of unemployment benefit in the metropolitan areas in Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland total 4,326. In the same States in nonmetropolitan areas 9,603 persons are in receipt of unemployment benefits. This is more than double the number in the 3 capital cities of those States, despite a population differential which would amount to at least three to one in favour of the capital cities. 
Is it suggested that there is not a crisis in non-metropolitan employment in the eastern States of. Australia at least? 1 have not had time to do the calculations for the other States. Is it suggested by anyone in this House that we can pass off a problem like this just by saying that most of these people are unemployable anyhow? There is not one shred of evidence in the Budget or in any statement made in this Parliament which indicates that the Government is prepared to take any action or is contemplating taking any action to promote industry and employment in non-metropolitan areas. It is not only the unemployed persons who suffer in this situation. The business people in the communities and the communities themselves suffer because the wages which are paid to people are the wherewithal upon which the economies of these non-metropolitan towns exist. Unemployment benefits are a cost, and it could well be economically feasible that the expenditure of the amounts of money which are being paid in unemployment benefits to promote the development of industries in these areas would be an investment which would yield a profit in years to come. That is of course if the Government's policy is to promote employment in these areas and if it is not a fact that the Government's policy is to hamstring inflation by creating unemployment. That has always been a theory of conservative economics - a theory which I would hope that the Government rejects but which its current attitudes would suggest that it does not reject. 
Finally I raise one other matter that should have arisen in the Budget but which did not. lt is not related to the other matters that I have spoken about. I refer to the problem of nursing care for aged persons. There has been no increase for a number of years in the level of aged persons nursing home subsidies wilh the result that the burdens and the problems associated with this have grown tremendously in magnitude. Those people who have sons and daughters who are able to maintain them are fortunate but the sons and daughters are placed in the position that whilst they are maintaining their parents they can make no claims for tax deductions on the amounts which are expended. Therefore they must carry a double burden in this field. No old people want to be a burden on their children and no children want to sec their parents in circumstances of need. I think that humanitarian considerations alone would demand that action be taken in this field as soon as possible. The costs of nursing home care are rising alarmingly. The provision of assistance at government level is not rising. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and I believe that the Budget for 1971-72 is a document of which this Parliament cannot be proud. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Has a decision been reached on the proposal to provide additional assistance for the training of country apprentices. 
If so, will action be taken to include Geelong in the area covered by the Scheme. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What is the rate of placement of physically disabled persons registered for employment in (a) metropolitan and (b) non-metropolitan employment districts. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
How many (a) cities and (b) towns in Australia in which municipal council administrative offices and council chambers are located, are without an official post office. 
We have heard an interesting, one-sided summary of history by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  He quoted from some pre-war speeches by honourable members who were at that time on this side of the House. 1 remember one quote from a speech by the then Leader of the Opposition.  Mr Curtin,  in 1936 which was completely ridiculed by members of the Government of that day. The Minister for Defence in particular included references to the important need for Australia to develop air defences - that was not entirely backward thinking in 1936  -  and to the fact that it was evident even at that time that Australia could not expect assistance from the United Kingdom in the event of any future war and would have to look elsewhere. The statements which we heard this afternoon from the honourable member for La Trobe in relation to the United States of America were very much  like those of that day. The then Minister ridiculed the suggestion that the United Kingdom would not be able to come to our aid. The United Kingdom has always come to our aid and will always be there in the future, were the ringing words of confidence before this House. We now have the benefit of hindsight and we all know that that was not the fact. 
I think we all know in our hearts that the United States is going home from Asia and is going to stay home from Asia. It would be only in the event of a global war that we could expect the United States to come back into Asia in a military capacity. The events, in which Australia played a major part, involving the United States in the land war in Asia have cost us the future possible support of the United States in any defence situation. It is possibly significant that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Mc Mahon)  on Armistice Day in 1964, introduced national service in its present form. The night before in this Parliament the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, had explained exactly why it was necessary and in fact critical for a 2-year period to be the minimum length of service. According to the Prime Minister, it took at least 6 months for recruit and corps training. Allowing for time for transfers, reassimilation and leave, it was necessary that a 2-year period be fixed in order that a minimum of 12 months effective service be provided to the Army by the national servicemen. 
If that was true in 1964 1 would be interested to know why it is not true today. It seems to me that if we are going to reduce the period by 6 months some real reasons should be given why and how this can be done without actually reducing the effective period of service of national servicemen. We are all aware of the real reason why the reduction is taking place, and this makes the speech of the honourable member for La Trobe the most cynical of speeches. 
The reason why the 6 months reduction is taking place is that the Government could not finance its defence expenditure with a 2-year period of national service and found that the cheapest and easiest way out was to reduce the period, by 6 months, to 18 months, lt is purely a budgetary reduction in the period of national service. That budgetary reduction, when 6 months can be cut off the period purely to satisfy the political requirements of drafting an annual Budget, shows just how seriously the Government treats the need for national service in our defence system. The honourable member for La Trobe made a number of other statements. He referred to the placing of forces in Singapore. He did not refer to the fact that in J 941 the forces were placed there without the benefit of air support and were placed there in a practically defenceless situation and, because of the manner in which they were supplied, were virtually in a suicidal position. We obtained no benefit whatsoever from that piece of forward defence, and if anyone can stand up in this House and suggest that that was in Australia's best interests I would like to hear him. 
The primary amendment moved by the Opposition would have the effect of concluding the national service scheme and I think it is fair to say that that is the major object of the Opposition in this debate. I believe it is academic to argue whether a professional army of 28,000 men is as effective as or more effective than an army consisting of 28,000 professional soldiers and 12,000 national servicemen who, if the former Prime Minister's words are to be believed, have an effective service life of 6 months. I would suggest that this changing of personnel must have the effect of diluting the effective strength of the service. The honourable member for La Trobe has suggested that China has the atomic bomb and therefore it is necessary to have 12,000 extra men. I am not exactly sure how 12,000 national servicemen will stop atomic weapons from being utilised or being effective in a war. I am quite sure that if we did face a situation in which China had the transport capacity to challenge Australia in a war 12,000 men would not make a great deal of difference. Transport capacity would be about the only real criterion involved. 
The other important matter which comes into this debate is that of conscientious objection and moral obligation. There appears to be on the Government side some suggestion that 20-year olds have a moral obligation to serve in the armed forces because the defence of the country is involved. There is no moral obligation placed on those persons who engage in business and commerce and there is no moral obligation placed on any section of the Australian community other than those male persons who are or will in the future reach the age of 20 - and possibly their wives, mothers and fathers. If morality is the question then where is the morality in choosing a significantly small proportion of the community to carry the entire burden of defence or, as the honourable member for La Trobe put it, effective defence because - if his speech means anything - we have ineffective defence' if we have only 28,000 men. 
It is necessary, according to the Government, that 12,000 young men should spend 18 months in the Army in order to provide us with effective defence. The fact is that this could destroy their future career opportunities. I recognise that there are provisions which require that they be given back their jobs after they return to civilian life. These provisions are not really effective and it is not very difficult for employers to get around them. In normal circumstances we can expect, especially with young men who are seeking promotion in the major companies and in fields of business, that other people who have not had to take up service will have had the opportunities during those 2 years and will have taken the advancement which should have been available to the national servicemen. In those fields opportunities are not lost for 2 years, they are lost forever. I have a case before me at the moment of a young man who has recently commenced operating a one-man business. He has been called up for national service, and irrespective of what deferments he obtains and how long they extend the penalty for serving will be the destruction of his business forever - not just for a few weeks, but forever - because there is no way in which he can serve 18 months and still carry on his business. 
There is also some serious lack of morality in a situation in which we call on young men to train to kill their fellow human beings, not in defence of their country but in defence of the political policies of the government of the day. Today we do not hear anyone, other than possibly members such as the honourable member for La Trobe, suggesting that the Vietnam war was in defence of Australia. 
It was in defence of the political judgments of the Government, but to suggest that it was in the actual defence of Australia is, I think, stretching the imagination a long way. It was fashionable in 1966 to suggest that the Chinese were coming. In fact, 1 remember those pamphlets portraying arrows pointing down to Australia. 1 remember one former member of this House saying that it was only 2 hours flying time from Saigon to Australia. That is most likely true, but completely irrelevant to the situation, lt was good hysterical stuff. But the fact of the matter is that no-one seriously suggests that Australian troops were or are in Vietnam in defence of Australia. If there is any reason at all they are there to meet the political commitments of the Government and no other reason could seriously be advanced. 
There are in the community people who have objections to serving in military forces. There are also people in the community who have objections to killing their fellow men, and the requirements which exist at this time for establishing conscientious objection are not only that a person must object to killing his fellow man but also that he must object to defending his country in any circumstances. I suggest that this is totally unreal. It is quite possible and understandable that a young man would defend his mother, for instance, if she was attacked and would defend his country if he felt it was in dire danger but would not be . prepared to take the same types of actions to maim and kill his fellow man in defence of political judgments with which he may or may not agree. It is totally unreal to suggest that there cannot be genuine conscientious objection to serving in a particular war or serving in a particular set of circumstances. 
Unfortunately we have had foisted upon us policies which have now proven not to have been in the best interests of Australia but which have created a situation which is one of the most divisive in Australia's political history, which have created extreme bitterness among large sections of the Australian community - I suggest needlessly - and which the Government now proposes to continue but with a reduction of the national service period by 6 months not because it believes that 2 years is not necessary, not because it believes that 13 months is the ideal period, but because its budgetary requirements demand that the period of 2 years becomes 18 months. For that completely cynical reason a large proportion of the Australian population will be forced to serve in the Australian Army and, if the position of the honourable member for La Trobe is to be accepted, they are to be forced to serve in order to provide cannon fodder for the Army. The honourable member for La Trobe suggested that the 28,000 regular soldiers would provide about 3,000 front line troops. So we can assume that we are in fact not calling men up to provide balanced sections of the Army but for the single purpose of providing the people who will do the shooting and be shot at. Apparently the Regular Army is the train-, ing, background and logistic support for national servicemen who, in the effective 6 months period which they will serve will be asked to carry any future defence of Australia. That is the import of what the honourable member for La Trobe said, and it is the only judgment which can be made of his statements. 
A very small number of conscientious objectors are serving terms of imprisonment because they happened to disagree with a political policy to the extent that they were not prepared to comply with what is a fairly restrictive and demanding law which applies to only a very small section of the community. These men have to face extremely unsympathetic courts. I suggest to some Government supporters who believe that it is easy to be a conscientious objector that they should see some of the treatment which it meted out to some of these men in the courts after they have refused to undergo national service. Brutality is the watchword. Where the judge is sympathetic the defendant is usually dealt with extremely well. Unfortunately a lot of people in the legal profession appear to have the old colonial attitude that a term in the Army will make a man out of a person. Where the predisposition of the court is to judge that a man is trying to avoid his responsibilities, or where the court fails to accept the fact that there are people who disagree with a point of view, a conscientious objector is in a totally hopeless position. We have heard this from Government supporters, one of whom was the honourable member for La Trobe who was most definite on this point. There is no way in which he can justify or prove his claim to he a conscientious objector because he will not be allowed by the court to do so unless he is so passive that he is prepared to stand and say that he would see his mother beaten to death by a hoodlum without objecting. This is not the test of conscientious objection. I believe this is merely a device to prevent people from using this type of plea in order to avoid national service. 
The clauses in the Bill relating to conscientious objection are important. Although there are in excess of 100 minor wars going on in the world at the moment, it is a time of relative peace. I believe that our laws could be framed in such a way as to ensure that justice is done and not only appears to be done. I do not believe thai the prime objective of any government should be to convict people for their beliefs or to make it impossible for people to practice their beliefs. I believe that the prime objective of any government should be to cater for these beliefs when they are genuinely held. Many of our conscientious objectors do hold genuine beliefs. It is also true that because of the operation of the conscientious objection provisions in this Bill there are numerous young men who will not even attempt to claim conscientious objection because they know the type of hearing they will get before the courts. This situation is wrong and I believe that this Government should deal with it in a far more sympathetic manner. It is my belief that in the preparation of its Budget the Government has proved beyond all doubt the lack of need for a continuation of the National Service Act. The provisions of this Act have had the effect of reducing the morale of the men in the Citizen Military Forces almost to nil because of the lack of opportunities and lack of importance given to that Service. This Act has bad the effect of reducing recruitment for the Regular Army. It has also had the effect of causing divisions within our community. 
The Government has said that it cannot raise a volunteer Army. The Government has failed to enlist two-thirds of persons seeking to enlist in the Army. Many of those who have been rejected for service in the Regular Army have subsequently been accepted for national service. No genuine explanation has been given for its anomaly. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope) Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to raise one matter briefly. Obviously the purpose of this amendment is to release from prison 3 men who quite obviously have proven beyond all reasonable doubt their conscientious objection to the National Service Act. The penalty of 2 years imprisonment, being reduced to 18 months, is an extremely severe penalty and one which is comparable with penalties for some of the major crimes in our community. In considering this clause I would ask the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  to inform the House, now or on the third reading of the Bill, what the situation is with these young men who are serving prison sentences and whom we are asking to be paroled, with regard to any future application they make to join the Commonwealth Public Service or any State Public Service. Are they to be considered as common criminals and to be denied the right of access to employment because they have had a conscientious objection to a piece of legislation which is seriously objected to by a very substantial portion of the Australian population? 
If in fact, as appears to be the case at this stage, these young men are for the rest of their lives to be denied access to employment in the Commonwealth Public Service and other areas where a criminal record - this is what they have been provided with - is a bar to future employment then it is up to the Government, before we conclude the Committee stage of the Bill, to inform the House so that the Committee stage can be adjourned and consideration can be given to this point. Once they have served their sentence and been released from prison - as we are asking for in this clause - then their record of imprisonment should be completely wiped clean. They are not criminals. They have refused on the ground of conscience to participate in the national service scheme. 
To compare this offence with assault and battery, robbery and other criminal acts is totally wrong and something which should not be tolerated. I ask the Minister to tell us before we conclude the Committee stage whether these men are to be denied access to the Commonwealth Public Service because of their incarceration and because of their conscientious objection. If this is so, will he agree to the Committee stage of the Bill being adjourned so that amendments can be brought forward to ensure that their criminal records are completely wiped clean and they will be fully entitled to the privileges of citizenship of this country? 
Unlike the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess),  I intend to deal with the amendment and not to indulge in name calling. This is a serious matter. It is of- very great moment for a small but important section of the Australian people - those people who have turned, or who will turn in the near future, 20 years of age. The honourable member for La Trobe has said the 
Opposition is suggesting that an Army of 28,000 is adequate, whereas the Government believes that an Army of 40,000 is adequate. I think that someone on the government side should have explained how an army of 40,000 would be adequate and why it was desirable to reduce the numbers in the Army from 44,000 to 40,000 if, as honourable members opposite have been saying, there are great threats facing Australia at the present time. 
In fact, this Bill will reduce the strength of the permanent Army by 4,000 men. I think it is also fair that this Committee should clearly understand the reasons why that reduction is taking place. It has absolutely nothing to do with military strategy or defence policy. It is purely because the defence estimates, when presented to Cabinet, were in excess of that amount which could be fitted into the Budget, and it was felt that a reduction of 6 months in national service would be the easiest and most popular way in which to accommodate a reduction in defence expenditure. It was done to fit into the Budget strategy of the Government. I think that we should be clear on that point. Honourable members opposite should not stand up in the chamber like heroes and support national service at a certain level. 
I think we ought to deal a little more realistically with this figure of 40,000. The honourable member for La Trobe said that an army of 28,000 men does not represent an army of 28,000 fighting men. I suggest that the additional 12,000 national servicemen do not represent 12,000 additional fighting men. I think that we should be a little realistic about this matter. When a former Prime Minister spoke in this chamber on 10th November 1964 and outlined the way in which national service was to be introduced - the present Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  introduced a Bill the next day - he stated the reasons why it was necessary to have 2 years national service. He made it quite clear that 2 years national service was necessary because it was felt it was unrealistic to place a person into the armed forces for an effective service period of less than 12 months. He made it quite clear that the anticipated training period of men called up would be 6 months. He said that matters such as recreation leave, assimilation, transfer, travelling time, etc., would dissipate a further 6 months. Therefore, out of 2 years national service there would be an effective service period of only 12 months. So the proposal in this Bill to reduce by 6 months the period of national service in fact reduces by 50 per cent the effective period of service which these men will serve in the Army - unless, of course, "the former Prime Minister and other honourable members opposite have deliberately misled us since the Bill was first introduced. So if we take the figures as they are quoted, we are in fact talking about a difference in Army numbers between 28,000 and 34,000- not 40,000. That is the reality of the situation. If the Government's own figures are correct, then there is a difference of 6,000 effective national servicemen, not 12,000. In fact, I think it is less than that. 
The Government keeps harping on the fact that it cannot get recruits. The honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  said that educational standards in the community are higher; therefore, people who are educated are not prepared willingly to serve in the Army in the lower ranks. That may or may not be true. But it is fairly obvious that people without the highest educational standards who are not prepared to serve in the lower ranks are prepared to serve in the Army. The number of recruits who are rejected on educational grounds is astonishing. I suggest that while this nation is in its present situation the Government should consider educating those people who wish to serve in the Army but whose educational standards are marginally below those required for entry in to the armed services. The Government has made no attempt to do this because it is cheaper and easier to deal with the matter by conscription. It does not matter to the Government that conscription destroys a young man's future; it does not matter that quite often it deprives a young man of early family . life with his wife and children'; and it does not matter that it can destroy the opportunities of a man for the rest of his life. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  said that the Army makes men out of these young people. We do not have people wearing armour and riding white horses any more. There is no evidence to suggest that service in the armed forces is any more likely to build character than any other type of service in the community. It is a doubtful proposition to suggest that polishing another man's boots is morale building or character building. It is also a doubtful proposition to suggest that a trained police officer should be called up into the Army to serve behind an officer's mess bar - that seems to be a stupid allocation of priorities in any community - or that a trained teacher should be called up into the Army to clean out lavatories. Does this build character? It deprives the nation of the skills which it needs in order to satisfy by the easiest possible means the requirements of our defence forces. 
The Government is not prepared to provide attractive conditions of service, such as housing and other facilities which are necessary. It resorts to the simplest and most authoritarian method of attracting people into the Army. We hear in this chamber about the great need to defend freedom and about abhorrence of totalitarian nations. I suggest that there is nothing more totalitarian in any country than to deprive a man of his liberties and his rights as a citizen of the nation by forcing him against his will and his conscience to serve in any armed force. Men are entitled to speak for themselves. We do not live in an age when the King decrees and all persons must think alike. The amendment provides an opportunity for the Government to remove from the statute book an abhorent piece of legislation which is a denial of the freedom which we suggest we defend. I suggest that Government members should seriously consider my proposition. Retraining of those persons who are deficient in education at the time when they seek to enlist in the Army could provide the Army with a substantial proportion of its required manpower on a longer term basis than would be provided by the continuation of this Act. 
I suggest that it is totally cynical to stand in this Parliament and say that this Bill is based on the defence needs of Australia and that these reductions have been made on military advice when we all know that they have been made on the advice of the Budget strategists who drafted this year's national Budget and found that the defence expenditures were in excess of what the Government was prepared to put before the Parliament. Because the Government could not take the odour of not providing the increases recommended by the Kerr Committee it has reduced the period of national service by 6 months. That is the real story. It is a cynical budgetary proposal motivated purely by money. I think the Government should state truthfully why it is reducing the period of national service and should not stand beneath its halo and claim it is defending the country with 40,000 soldiers. In fact we will not have 40,000 but only  about 34,000 effective troops. 
Question put: 
That the new clause proposed to be inserted (MrBarnard'samendment)besoinserted 
I want to raise with the Minister a matter  1  raised a few minutes ago. He said that he would examine the rights to employment in the Commonwealth Public Service of a person imprisoned under the Act. If the Minister finds the situation is as stated - that persons are debarred from joining the Commonwealth Public Service and other services - will he undertake to introduce amendments to the Act which would remove this continuing penalty against the very small number of persons who have been incarcerated and ensure that their penalties are for the period specified and not for the life of the person concerned. This is a serious matter if the situation is in fact as it appears to be. I believe that no government could justify a situation in which it denies forever the rights of these persons to employment in the Commonwealth Public Service or in other areas because of their criminal record. Will the Minister give this undertaking because I think it is a serious matter and one that should be given deep consideration. 
asked the Minister for Edu  cation and Science, upon notice: 
Have instructions been issued for a reduction in the staff establishment of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation at Geelong. 
Have similar instructions been given to other Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation establishments. 
If so, are these instructions a result of the Government's anti-inflation campaign. 
asked the Postmaster- 
General, upon notice: 
On what dates were the post offices in Belmont and Norlane first opened. 
What was the number of staff at each office at the time of opening, and what is the staff at present. 
How many homes are served from each office. 
Is it a fact that the present building is totally unsuitable to serve the Norlane area. 
If so, when can a new building more suitable to a growing area in the centre of a major business undertaking be anticipated. 
Has Norlane been given a low priority because it is largely a Housing Commission area. 
I ask the Prime Minis  ter whether he agrees with the implied suggestion by the Minister for the Navy that 
Australians working in naval shipyards are spies and saboteurs. Have any Australian workers in defence establishments been prosecuted for breaches of security in recent years? Does the Prime Minister consider that Australian defence secrets would be better kept in British, Japanese or United States shipyards than in Australian shipyards? Has he any evidence of any lack of security in respect of sh p, built in recent years in Australian shipyards? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Hallett)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. I claim to have been misrepresented by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in answering a question I asked him relating to imputations by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  that employees of Australian naval dockyards were spies and saboteurs. The Prime Minister in reply named a person who I do not know and who I understand is not an employee of Commonwealth naval dockyards and suggested that this person was a Communist, thereby imputing that all persons who work in naval dockyards were spies and saboteurs. I suggest it was a totally improper answer to the question. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian Delegation to the 58th conference of the InterParliamentary Union held at The Hague between 1st and 9th October 1970. I move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 

 Mr Speaker, as the  deputy  leader of the Australian delegation at the InterParliamentary Union conference at The Hague and also as one of the Council representatives at the meeting which took place in Monaco in the Australian autumn of last year, I should like to thank those people who assisted the delegation. I refer first to  Mr Bowen  of the Department of Foreign Affairs, who was the adviser to the delegation on policy matters. I wish also to mention  Mr Alan  Cumming Thom, who was secretary of the delegation to The Hague,  Mr Colin  McDonald, Charge d' Affaires at the Australian Embassy at The Hague, and his staff also provided a very large amount of assistance to the Australian delegation. 
Having said that, I would like to point out to the House -  1  do not intend to go into the actual details of the report - the fact that Australian delegations are generally placed at a severe disadvantage because they do not have any continuing representation at these conferences. Most delegations from other countries have some continuing representation which enables the members of those delegations to be more fully acquainted with the personnel involved at and the operations of InterParliamentary Union conferences. I think it would be of value to the Australian delegation if it had some degree of continuity of representation at these conferences.  1  think the greatest value of these conferences is that they enable members of parliament to converse with each other on matters which affect parliament and parliamentarians. Some of the more interesting debates which took place at The Hague - from my point of view anyhow - were on the various concepts of democratic government and parliamentary democracy represented at that conference. About 56 member groups comprising some  478  delegates were present at The Hague. The number of member groups present was reduced by, I think, about five because of the death of  President  Nasser almost immediately before the start of the conference. The various Arab nation delegations which were in mourning for the  President  of the United Arab Republic withdrew from the conference. 
One thing which struck me - it took place at the spring meeting and not at the conference - was the manner in which the delegations from quite different ideologies were able to get together and bring forward draft resolutions which were acceptable to the whole of the conference. Whilst some Western nations may regard the decisions taken at these conferences as not being decisions of great importance they are nevertheless decisions which have been made by parliamentarians representing their parliaments and, especially with the Eastern bloc nations, the decisions are taken quite seriously.. It would appear from the level  of  assistance provided by the United States of America and some other Western countries that those countries also consider the decisions taken at these conferences to be of some importance. Very heated debates took place on the situation in the Middle East and on other matters, but it was always possible to come forward with recommendations which were adopted almost unanimously. I think that this spirit of co-operation could be widened if more consultation took place between not the people who administer the forms of government but those who are directly responsible for the decision making in the various parliaments. 1 mean by that the members of the various parliaments. 
I do not intend to delay the House much longer, but I would like to make one other suggestion. I understand that the practice of providing officers from the Department of Foreign Affairs to delegations on a continuing basis has been discontinued. I would like to suggest that some consideration be given to involving the  research staff of the Parliamentary Library in these conferences in an advisory capacity. The delegations that represent Australia are drawn from the Australian Parliament and not from the Australian Government. I think it would be of advantage to not only the research staff of the Parliamentary Library but also the Australian delegations themselves if advisers who were independent of Government policy but who were equally well informed were able to accompany the delegations to these conferences. It would also be of value to those people who are doing research work and providing material for members of this Parliament if they were able to make contact with the various people who attend these conferences. [ think it would be one way of broadening the outlook of the Parliament. It would increase the degree of independence of Australian delegations. 
 Finally,  1  would also like to mention those people who prepared the various briefs which were presented to the delegates at this conference. The amount .of information which was provided to us was of extreme value. I would request members of the Parliament to have a look through the record of the various debates which were held. Some very interesting points of view were expressed. I think it would be of interest to honourable members to examine the different points of view which were expressed, especially those view* on the structures and operations of Parliament which were expressed by people from countries which practise forms of parliamentary democracy different from ours and which have different ideological understandings of democracy. It was very educational to me to learn that we are not the only people who believe we have the best system of government. 
 Motion (by  Mr Giles)  proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
At this time when the House is considering the estimates for the Parliament I think it is appropriate that we should take a look at the manner in which the Parliament is and has been working over a number of years. After 70 years of operation it is time for reflection upon the present structure of the Parliament of the Commonwealth. The strength and influence of the mass media, the top heavy structure of the Liberal Party especially during the second Menzies period and the relative electoral weakness of the Australian Labor Party in the 1950s have led to a denigration of the standing of the Parliament in the nation's affairs. The major decisions are made elsewhere. Members of the Government parties are forced to accept decisions to which they are opposed because of their loyalty to their leader or party. The fact that the Prime Minister has the sole right to choose who will exercise the effective power of government divorces the Parliament from any area of control over the day to day decisions of the government. Men of ability are excluded because they will not crawl or because their policies or personalities clash with those of the Prime Minister of the day. Once Cabinet decides to proceed with legislation, no matter how controversial or complicated, it will be rammed through the Parliament with little regard for the ideas or wishes of honourable members. Important amendments to major Bills have been avoided by the use of the guillotine to prevent voting and adequate debate. 
Under the present Prime Minister the position of Parliament has deteriorated even further. Obviously unable to find confidence in his own leadership capacity he has decided to by-pass Parliament wherever possible. There is need for some real thought about the future operation of the parliamentary system of government if we are to restore its pre-eminence as a legislative and deliberative body accepting the fact that abolition of the Senate is at least not likely to occur in the near future. I would like to put forward some ideas for improving the effectiveness of the Parliament and increasing its control over the Executive. I would suggest that all Ministers should be members of the House of Representatives. The present situation where major ministerial responsibilities are exercised in another place is unsatisfactory for this House, and is used as a device to stifle questioning and debate on important areas of policy. Provision should be made for Ministers to be able to handle the passage of legislation under their control through both Houses. Ministers should also be rostered for question time in the Senate, as happens in the Indian Parliament. By this means the responsibility of the Executive is open to direct question in either House. The House of Representatives should have standing legislative committees to which all legislation would be referred after the first reading. These committees could be required to report on a Bill within a fixed period. The committees would have power to call public servants or members of the public during consideration of legislation. In order to facilitate this process the Minister would make his interpretative speech during the first reading of the Bill. He could if desired reply to the committee report on the second reading, which would retain its general debate function. 
In order that the Ministry should reflect the will of the Parliament it should be provided that if one-third of the members petition the  Speaker  for a secret ballot such a ballot should be taken of the members of the House of Representatives, the question being whether the House accepts or rejects the Prime Minister's nominees each being voted for separately. 
I do not care whether it does or not. In order that the Senate could play a full role in the Parliament and perform adequately its function as a House of review, a series of Senate committees should be established covering the major areas of Government activity. The  chairman  of these committees should be elected directly from the Senate. Such committees would have the power to conduct public inquiries into matters covered by their terms of reference. Bills may be referred to such committees, but must be returned to the Senate within a fixed period unless otherwise determined by the Senate. The committees should also have power to examine matters not directly before the Parliament. 
The changes I have proposed would place a greater work load on members and add to their responsibility. They would minimise the possibility of persons becoming Ministers who are unacceptable to the majority and make sure that ill conceived, hastily prepared legislation does not pass into law. This is, I would hope, a proper function of the Parliament. The House of Representatives would be, as it is historically intended, the House of Government; the Senate would adopt the role of a House of review and examination. The existing wasteful duplication of functions would be minimised. In the normal course of events the flow of legislation would soon be regularised, and the Government's timetable would be geared to the timetable of the Parliament. There would need to be special provision for urgent legislation, and possibly the Budget. I would envisage that statements and reports could be treated in the same way as Bills. There is one further point. I think it would be desirable if the  Speaker  had the power to direct Ministers to provide information to the Parliament where it is obvious that such information is required. Matters directly concerning the Parliament and members should come directly under the control of the Parliament itself. The functions relating to the Parliament that are at present administered by the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  should, I believe, come under the direct jurisdiction of the  Speaker  and  President  of the Senate. 
The propositions which I have put forward, despite the interjection of one honourable member, are propositions to which I have given considerable consideration. Because I believe that any such propositions should be put forward in a proper manner, 1 took the trouble to write them out. I do not believe that these propositions are original ideas. I believe that other people have most likely put most of them forward before this time. This is the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia and it should reflect the views of the people. It should reflect the majority views of its members. I do not believe that at present this is so and I do not believe that the Parliament itself at this point of time has within its Standing Orders the means by which members can influence the government of the day. 
You do not have a free vote on your side, so do not cloud the issue with irrelevancies. The situation is that this House is not acting as a House of Government. In fact it is probably true to say that neither House of this Parliament is acting as a House of Government I believe that the necessary provision ought to be made so that the Ministry was directly answerable to the Parliament and so that the  Speaker  could direct a Minister to make a statement on a matter when he believed that such information should be given to the Parliament. This is what happens in India which has a younger Parliament than ours. The  Speaker  of the lower House in the Indian Parliament can direct the Minister to make a statement in those circumstances. The Prime Minister of India and all the other Ministers in the Indian Parliament handle their legislation in both Houses of that Parliament. 
In the event of these propositions being adopted obviously there would be a need for changes to be made in relation to such matters as parliamentary privilege. It may even be necessary to have constitutional alterations but these changes should not be a total bar to the adoption of any proposition for the streamlining of this Parliament. It is a totally unsatisfactory situation when matters concerning the AttorneyGeneral's Department, which is a primary department, or the Department of Health cannot adequately be dealt with in this House because the responsible Minister is not in this place but is represented here by another Minister. A similar situation exists in the Senate when the Minister concerned is a member of the House of Representatives. If the Indian Parliament - which is the only one that I know with this arrangement, but I understand that there are others, - can provide for Ministers to appear in both Houses to accept the primary function of steering and answering for legislation in both Houses then I can see no reason why this could not be done in this Parliament. I think it would be a very strong step forward. I have outlined these proposals because I believe that some serious consideration should be given to them. I do not profess to be an oracle on these viewpoints but some serious consideration should be given by members of this Parliament to proposals that would make it a more effective body and with a view to placing its members in roles in which they will be far more effective in influencing the decisions of government from day to day. I am sure that when legislation is being considered- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  &lt;Mr Hallett) - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise tonight to raise a matter which is of considerable concern to the employees of the Government Aircraft Factory at Avalon in my electorate and which is also of concern to other employees in the aircraft industry in Victoria. Quite recently the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  informed me that the Avalon plant of the Government Aircraft Factories was not involved in any merger arrangements. 
Yesterday  Mr Churcher,  the Manager of the Government Aircraft Factories, circulated a letter headed 'Merger of Aircraft Production Facilities at Fishermen's Bend and Avalon'. This seems to be a change in attitude in a period of only 7 days. In the letter which has been circulated the employees in the first instance have been told that they should not worry about their future employment. In the second instance they have been told that when the merger comes into effect most likely there will be substantial alterations in the staff structure. In the third instance they have been told that they should not leave the industry, that they should place their trust in the management of the Government Aircraft Factories and that the best people will be kept in employment. These employees have no way of knowing who are the best people. 
I believe that a number of questions should be answered by the Minister, not by the employees of the various departments. I think that the matter should be fairly and quickly cleared up. There is a lot of misconception and before long there may be armed camps among the employees of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories, because in each case the employees are concerned about their future employment. The employees of the Government Aircraft Factories are, in the main, employed by the Commonwealth. A number of them are permanent public servants and they are concerned about their future employment and their future as public servants in any merger of the factories. The other matter which concerns the employees of the Government Aircraft Factories is the type of bias which might be displayed. The letter which has been circulated indicates that it is an industry with a commercial bias. I think that would mean that it is a commercial operation as opposed to commercial management. 
There are a number of things which I think the employees and this House are entitled to know. First, what is the exact structure of the committees which are discussing the merger arrangements? Are the 2 undertakings equally represented? As it is now apparent that the Government Aircraft Factories at Avalon are included, are the Commonwealth. Aircraft Corporation's engine and helicopter divisions involved in this operation? Is the merger to take place within a year, or will it take 4 years to arrange as I understand the Australian Council of Trade Unions has been told? Have the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation's management personnel been itemising equipment and allocating positions for that equipment within their own factory? Is the Corporation's own equipment largely due for replacement and therefore will the merger enable the Corporation to continue as a commercial operation without having to purchase new equipment? These are matters of substance which I think the Government or the Minister should clear up for the Parliament. Was a previous proposal put forward and rejected by a government under a former Prime Minister? 
I am concerned about the feeling of insecurity which is building up among employees who for a long period of years now have been under a constant threat of loss of employment in a trade at which they have become extremely skilled and in which they are irreplaceable. I believe it is important that this industry should survive and extremely important that it should do so as a Government controlled industry. It is a part of our defence structure. Despite the remarks which have been passed from time to time by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  there appears to be no suggestion that the naval dockyards will be handed over to private enterprise. I know that the situation in the aircraft industry is somewhat different but I think that this Parliament should be told fairly and clearly that the public interest in the aircraft industry will be protected. It should also be told that there will be no handing over of assets on any large scale to a private company which would mean that the taxpayers would be subsidising the company by providing it with equipment which it otherwise would have to purchase. 
It is also important that those persons who are absorbed in any merger arrangement should be given some guarantees of future employment. It could well be that in the initial stages persons would be absorbed into the new industry but that within a very short time they would find themselves eased out of it. It could well be that they could lose Public Service positions by being merged into the  new  industry without any guarantees of continuity of future employment. This is a very important and touchy subject for the people involved in the industry. For a number of years - since I have been a member of Parliament - I have consistently had representations from the aircraft industry, as it is established in my electorate, because of its doubtful and dubious future and because of an apparent total lack of forward planning. At the moment the situation is such that uncertainty reigns supreme.  1  do not think anyone employed in the industry is very happy about the current situation. I do not believe that the letter circulated among employees has clarified the position to any great extent. 
I want to raise one other matter. It concerns an individual employed by the Government Aircraft Factories. Some time ago the gentleman concerned applied to join the provident fund which is provided for employees of Government organisations. Subsequently, during processing, the file and his application were lost. He was told that he would have to submit another application, lt is approximately one year since his original application was made. From correspondence which I received from the Minister for Supply last week I am informed that there is no way in which the date of his acceptance as a contributor to the provident fund could be made retrospective to the date of his original application. While the Minister indicated that he regretted that this man would lose provident fund contributions for that period it was unavoidable. 
This is a severe injustice. The person concerned submitted an application properly. Through no fault of his the application form is no longer available. I think there should be some way of getting, around the red tape involved so as to enable this person to benefit by being able to join the provident fund from the date on which his application was submitted. It has been admitted that his file was lost and that it was not his fault that the application form was hot duly processed. I believe that to penalise him by a substantial amount is a totally wrong attitude to adopt. There should be some way in which his difficulty can be overcome. I raise that matter because I believe it to be a case of a very serious injustice to an individual. He did not lose his file. Officers of the Department of Supply lost his file. He should not have to pay the penalty for someone else's mistakes. That is the situation. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Can he say whether a number of contracts entered into by Australian exporters for the supply of processed fish products to Asian markets nave not been fully honoured. 
If so, why have these exporters failed to honour their respective contracts. 
Is it a fact that similar contracts have been entered into by other exporters before existing contracts have been fulfilled. 
If so, has this been a major factor in the failure of exporters to fulfil contracts. 
Is this failure to honour contracts having an adverse effect on Australian trade relations in Asia. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did an Australian representative recently make an official visit to Mongolia. 
Does Australia recognise the  independent  People's Republic of Mongolia. 
Can he say whether the Government of China recognised by Australia claims authority over Mongolia as a province of China. 
If authority over Mongolia is claimed, what is the reason for an official visit to thatcountry when Australia recognises another Government which claims that the country is a province under its control. 
Has the Government defined the areas it recognises as the areas of authority of the Nationalist Government of China; if so, will he make this information available to the Parliament. 
The estimates now under consideration are those for the Departments of Primary Industry, Customs and Excise and Trade and Industry. They cover a fairly broad spectrum of extremely important areas of Government activity. I have no doubt that honourable members have already dealt fairly extensively with the problems which are confronting our primary industries. The major considerstion here is the manner in which planning to facilitate the orderly marketing of many of our primary products has been delayed and, on many occasions, totally opposed by honourable members opposite. It is not very long ago when we heard in this Parliament Country Party members almost calling down the wrath of the Lord on those people who suggested that wool should be sold by an appraisal system. It is now fashionable for the same members to stand up in the House and say that this system will be the salvation of the industry. lt is not very long since a referendum was held - it was at a time when wool prices were a little better than they are now - to determine whether a floor price scheme should be adopted for wool selling and on that occasion the referendum proposal did not have the active support of the Country Party and it was rejected. 
Marketing probably will be the most important single factor in the future of many of our primary industries, it is an area in which there should be far more professional research than there is at the moment. It is a nice sentiment to say that growers should be the people to decide these matters and it is a nice sentiment to say that they are the only people who should have any real say in the disposal of these products. But government moneys are often involved and, as with many other areas of production, the national economy is involved. It is not always, in fact it is very rarely, that a producer of an article is the best person or the most experienced person in the use or marketing of that article. It does not automatically follow that because a person grows an article he knows best how to process it. That may be someone else's skill. Similarly, it does not follow that because someone is able to grow an article he is the best qualified to market it. This is something which should be given consideration and looked at in a more scientific and more abstract manner than has been the case in recent years. I noted before the suspension of the sitting that the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  in his speech was indicating that he felt that the tariff structure in Australia should be dismantled to a degree. 
The honourable member also said that tariffs should be substantially lowered. I remember about a year ago in this House when members of the Country Party and others supported the only reduction in tariff that 1 can remember in some time. This was a reduction in the tariff on man-made fibres or acrylics. This reduction in tariffs had the effect of reducing the price to the mill of man-made fibres by about $1 a pound and of reducing the competitive capacity of wool by that amount. In fact it reacted against the sale of wool. So the reduction of tariffs is not always in the best interests of farmers and I suggest that in this particular case it cost the wool industry market opportunities. It also removed from that industry its competitive situation. 
I wish to deal wilh one or two industries which are subject to extremely high levels of tariff but which even with these levels of tariffs do not have real protection in Australia. I refer mainly to the textile areas. If we are to maintain in Australia a viable textile industry it is necessary that that industry must receive protection against the high-volume low-cost production of some Asian and European countries, especially where that production is subsidised by the governments of those countries in order that the tariffs placed by the Australian Government will not necessarily reduce their costs of entry into Australia. The industry must receive not only tariff protection but also some level of quota protection. In the non-metropolitan areas especially, outside the capital cities, textile industries are quite often the largest single employers of labour and in many areas the only substantial employers of female labour. If the provincial towns which are dependent on this industry are to survive or to retain the population and growth rate which is desirable then some means of protecting and maintaining these textile industries is absolutely essential. 
One of the matters which has been brought to my attention in recent months concerns a woollen textile industry in the Geelong area. I think it is reasonably well known to the House that there is a recession in the textile industry and I think it is also reasonably well known that within my electorate there has been a substantial fall in the level of employment in this industry. In the industry in the Geelong area there has been a reduction of nearly 1,000 in the members of the textile workers union. They did not just leave the union, they left the industry. That is a very substantial and a major economic factor in an area of 100,000 people. It means that job opportunities have been lost. I note that the Government did not accept the Tariff Board's recommendations on shirts but even in this industry this week 40 people have been dismissed. They were women, for whom it is hardest to find employment in provincial areas. Forty women have been dismissed from the Pelaco factory in Geelong and this is a serious loss of employment opportunities for females in the area. In the woollen textile industry there is no encouragement for modernisation. I was recently taken through one of the mills in my electorate and shown that after being given the indication some years ago that it should modernise its plant and put in new machinery, which it did, it is now in the situation where not a piece of thread is going through that machinery. The other matter which is important is that in many cases where industries have to purchase new machinery in order to become efficient and more competitive they are not able to purchase that machinery in Australia and have to pay fairly substantial tariffs on the machinery that they import. 
Finally, it is all very well for people to say that if an industry is not efficient it should not continue operating and it is all very well for them to say that we should break down the tariff barrier. There is no honourable member in this House who is prepared to stand up and say that Australia should abandon the motor industry or that Australia should abandon the textile industry or that Australia should abandon those other industries for which protection is necessary. No honourable member is prepared to stand in this House and say that the standard of living in Australia can survive if dumped articles from low wage countries are regularly allowed on the Australian market. It may help primary producers, but I very much doubt it. I am certain it would not help the Australian nation and no responsible person could suggest that the 2 biggest industries which need protection, the motor and textile industries, should be discontinued merely to save costs on a few articles. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That in the opinion of this House the level of Australian aid to Pakistani refugees should be raised to at least the equivalent of SI for each person in Australia. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Corio moving forthwith the motion of which he gave notice yesterday: That in the opinion of this House the level of Australian aid to Pakistani refugees should be raised to at least the equivalent of SI for each person in Australia. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable The  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
that death from mass starvation and disease is occuring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedented in modern history, 
that, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
that the Government grant income tax deductions for donations over $2 made towards the relief of overseas disaster areas.  - (2)  that this be effected with hastetoensure the maximum possible aid to those at present in refugee camps and those in danger of famine in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has the committee which was set up to inquire into the textile industry in Australia completed its investigation. 
If so, will he make a statement to the house at the earliest opportunity on the future of the textile industry in Australia. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
What is the average period for which unemployment benefits are paid. 
What is tbe average period in (a) metropolitan and (b) non-metropolitan employment districts. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Can he say whether the Victorian Government has instructed the Victorian Institute of Colleges that all future salary increases must be met by increasing student fees. 
If so, has the Commonwealth considered the implication of this instruction with reference to students from low and middle income families. 
Has the Commonwealth considered what financial assistance is needed if colleges affiliated with the Victorian Institute of Colleges are to perform the functions for which they, were established. 
I rise to support the amendment, which is couched in similar terms to a motion which I attempted to move in this House on two occasions over the last 3 weeks. On both of those occasions the Government used its numbers to prevent debate taking place and an expression of opinion being made by the members of this House. I hope that on this occasion the Government will allow the amendment to be put to a vote so that honourable members may express their opinions in the same way as the Australian people have already expressed their opinion on the level of aid which is being made available by the Australian Government for the East Pakistan refugees. I think that firstly we should dispense with any suggestion that Australia cannot afford to increase the level of aid. I do not think that any responsible member of this Parliament would say that the Australian Government could not afford to double or treble the present level of aid. 
Expressed in the terms of the amendment, which suggests that the level of aid should be not less than $1 per head for each Australian, the level of Australian aid at the moment, including the increase announced tonight, is 44c per head of the Australian population, which is most likely less than is spent each day on cigarettes in this country. The situation of the refugees in India is tragic. It is a situation which is beyond the imagination of any person in this Parliament. I doubt whether even those who have been there can at this stage really envisage the tragedy which they have actually seen. Nine million people and more in a state of almost total hopelessness have been inflicted on an area which is probably the poorest area in the world. An earlier  speaker  suggested that there was a lack of administrative capacity in the State Government of West Bengal. I suggest that if any group of administrators or any group taken out of any Parliament in the world were given the job of administering West Bengal without the 9 million refugees it would show a complete and total lack of administrative capacity when faced with the problems that exist in that area. 
It is smug to suggest that a lack of administrative ability is a reason why Australia should restrict to the present level the aid which we are prepared to provide. The Australian Government's record in this is pitiful. No other description can be given to it. A previous Minister for Foreign Affairs, explaining why vaccine had not been sent, said that we had to wait to find out what type of virus was involved so that we could send the right type of vaccine. The fact that there is only one type of cholera vaccine manufactured in Australia at the moment was overlooked. The amendment, if complied with, would mean that the Australian people would be providing approximately 1 per cent of the annual requirement of aid to maintain alive the refugees in India. I do not think with the affluence of the Australian nation and the level of wealth which we enjoy that it would be too much to expect that we could accept responsibility for onehundredth of the cost of maintaining these refugees. On present indications the Indian Government, whilst it has a total income greater than that of Australia, has a far greater problem within its own nation and it is being required to accept something like 85 per cent of the cost. 
This debate is about whether we as members of this Parliament have the level of conscience that has been exhibited quite clearly by the people outside this Parliament. I do not believe that we can accept the present level of aid. Every member of this House has received, I hope, many hundreds of letters from people asking that aid be increased. I would like to quote an extract from one letter I have received and I think it is probably synonymous with most of the letters which other honourable members have received. It reads: 
I am writing to you to ask you to let it be known that many Australians feel that the gift already given by the Government of Australia is paltry indeed when the plight of Pakistan refugees is so desperate. Please do whatever you can to convince the Parliament that a much larger gift should be sent immediately. 
I believe that the letter expresses the opinions of most Australians and that it is not necessary to convince the Parliament. I think that every member, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs, believes that the present level and the projected level of aid is not great enough, but by some means the Government - I do not know whether the Treasury has anything to do with it but I would hope that even it could not be as mean as that - has arrived at a situation where in response to considerable pressure from public opinion, from the Press and, T believe, from its own supporters it has felt compelled to increase the level of Australian aid by a token amount which is totally unsatisfactory. 
The amendment expresses what should be the opinion of the Parliament. Because of the archaic manner in which the Standing Orders of the Parliament are couched it is not possible to move an amendment actually to increase the amount of money which can be expended. It is still the royal prerogative to spend the Treasury's money. Apparently members of Parliament cannot be trusted with that responsibility but I believe that members of Parliament have a responsibility to give effect to the wishes stated in the hundreds of letters that every member of this House is receiving and, I hope, that some members at least are reading. The people who have written the letters hope that we will make a realistic contribution towards relief of the tragic suffering which a political situation has created and thrown upon so many people. I would hate to think, as I fear one must, this decision was made in the belief that these are, after all very poor people and are used to this type of thing. I should hate to think that we have become blase about the sufferings of other people. Yet that is the decision that one must reach. If a similar situation existed in one of the States of Australia and Australian people were involved, no government would be game to offer aid of 44c a head. 
The Australian aid represents sufficient funds to maintain the refugees for about 4 hours. I think Australia's contribution should be remembered in those terms. Earlier in the debate the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  reflected, I think quite improprerly and inappropriately, on the people who are fasting outside the Parliament in order to draw attention to the plight of those people in West Bengal who need aid. I think it would be well for Government supporters who are smugly satisfied with what is going on, or else are not prepared to accept their responsibility, to go and look at one of the gentlemen concerned, and having looked at him, imagine what he would look like if he fasted for another 100 days because that is the condition of many of the people in West Bengal. It is a condition which will be permanent for the rest of their very short lives. It is a condition which we, without great hardship to ourselves or the Australian taxpayers, could relieve to some extent. 
An increase to the level expressed in the amendment, of $1 for each head of the Australian population, would mean, if it was taken from additional taxation, that every Australian would have to pay 1.1c a week extra in taxation. That would provide the difference between what is being offered tonight and what is expressed in the amendment. It is not a tremendous amount of money, nor is it an amount that anyone could suggest the Australian Treasury cannot afford. Whether we can afford it is hot even the question. The question is whether we as a Parliament are prepared to express the opinion that this amount of money should be given. I have felt extremely disillusioned with the parliamentary system when a matter of this urgency and magnitude could not be brought on for debate in this House prior to II o'clock at night. It has been brought on when we are off the air. The Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  amazed me when on a previous occasion I tried to have this matter raised. He said that it could be debated within the normal Standing Orders of the House by placing it on the notice paper. Every member of this House knows that a private member's resolution cannot be debated in this House in the normal course of events. It is just not on. One puts things on the notice paper but unless the Government agrees to debate them that is where they stay. This is an occasion when we should have a vote unless the Government lacks the intestinal fortitude to allow its supporters to vote on the matter and when an expression of opinion of this Parliament should be forthcoming on this matter which is one of conscience for every member of this House. 
The amount of aid which is offered tonight is a disgrace to the Australian nation. It places every member of this House in the position where he should either show his shame or indicate, if he is not going to support the amendment, that he is not prepared to accept the opinions of those he represents. We are not guarding the Treasury's money because the amount involved is not great. We are saying whether or not we believe that the level of Australian aid should be more realistic. If and when we are allowed to vote on this amendment the members of this House should express the opinion that they are dissatisfied with the decision of the Cabinet. They should ask the Cabinet, or those who exercise the royal prerogative, to spend a little more of the money of the Treasury in a more humanitarian manner than is being done at the moment. I ask every member of this House to support the amendment and I will look with interest at those who are not prepared to support their constituents. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Mr Beazley's amendment)  be so added. 
asked the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Does the Australian Government provide any form of legal assistance to Australian citizens who have unknowingly entered into bigamous relationships with persons who were married prior to coming to Australia. 
If so, what is the form of this legal assistance. 
It was interesting to note the remarks of the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe).  He said that the Opposition was divided on its immigration policy. I greatly doubt this. I think the fact that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  led the debate for the Australian Labor Party is a fair indication. I would also suggest that it would be extremely doubtful whether all honourable members on the Government side would support the propositions put forward, for instance, by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettit).  But what I rose to  3peak  about were matters more directly concerned in these estimates. 1 believe that a full scale debate on immigration cannot be conducted under the circumstances which prevail in an estimates debate. We saw the situation at the start of this debate in which it was impossible for the honourable member for Grayndler to put forward his proposals in the limited time available. 
I support the amendment that a parliamentary committee should be set up.  I  believe it is important that from time to time we should examine the accepted norms of policies such as immigration. Because immigration has been largely bipartisan over almost the entire period of mass immigration to Australia since the Second World War, the policy itself, its aims and the manner in which it is carried out have not been subject to question. At various times there have been persons who have questioned the policy, but no large body of influential opinion has ever challenged the policy itself. Because most members of this Parliament are agreed basically on immigration policy there has been no real examination of the cause and effect and the results of our post war immigration policy. It would be a worthwhile exercise and in the national interest for a real inquiry to be conducted into our immigration policies, the effects, the benefits and such detractions as immigration has brought about in the Australian community. 
I do not profess to suggest that we should change our present policies to any major extent. But I think it would do no harm and it could do a lot of good if we bid a serious look at the situation. Some time ago, about the beginning of 1970, Professor Wheelwright claimed that our immigration policy was absorbing such a large amount of available investment capital within Australia in order to provide the social structure to cope with an unnatural increase in population that the nation had been forced to allow overseas capital to obtain control of substantial proportions of our industry. That may or may not be correct; I do not know. But it is one aspect which should be examined. 
The Vernon Committee, which presumably studied the question closely, suggested a maximum migrant intake, but its suggestion has not been accepted because the Government's advisers have felt that it should not be accepted. I repeat that these proposals have been put forward. I believe that it would be worth while to examine whether the conventional wisdom which has existed for so many years in relation to immigration is in fact wisdom or just blind ignorance. One could not do any harm - in fact, one could only do good - by examining whether a universally accepted proposition is in fact as good as we like to think it is. 
I wish to deal now with" one or two specific matters. Some time ago legislation was introduced in this Parliament relating to education in English of migrants. I wish to draw to the attention of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  who is at the table, a weakness which was pointed out at the time and which I think is seriously restricting the value of that proposition, that is, the fact that the Commonwealth does not accept any responsibility to provide buildings for the teaching of English to migrants. I know of a case where the location of one suitable building in an area in which there is a large number of schools could have provided, and would provide, an adequate service for the teaching of English to adult migrants. That building could have been put to great use. Unfortunately, the manner in which this policy has been policed, at least in the area that I know of, has provided for makeshift arrangements in various schools which can obtain the necessary quota to qualify, but in areas in which a slightly lower number of students is involved it is not possible for a school or a class to be established. After a teacher at one school had received the necessary training it was found that that school could not take her off normal teaching duties with the result that the teaching of English to migrants at that school had to cease. 
The provision of proper buildings in some areas, especially areas of high migrant concentration, could greatly assist this programme. It would not add greatly to the cost of the programme. I believe that it would bc of particular value in the inner metropolitan areas where very substantial numbers of migrants attend schools and in some of the larger provincial centres where there has been a large migrant settlement. Geelong and Wollongong arc two -provincial centres where there has been very substantial migrant settlement. I think it is very important for migrants - especially to the younger ones coming to this country - to obtain as quickly as possible and under the best possible conditions a knowledge of English which will enable them to proceed with their education and employment with as short an interruption as is possible. I believe that the present system does not provide these facilities in all cases. I realise that it is difficult to provide migrant teaching services everywhere they are needed but I believe that by adding the provision of buildings to the present programme a far better facility could be provided in many areas and the teaching could be made much more efficient. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise to support the amendment, which sets out 2 ways in which the problems facing the airline industry in Australia should be approached by the Government, namely, by the making of firm arrangements for substantial co-production procedures for imported aircraft and the setting up of a select committee to inquire into and report upon the effectiveness of the management of Qantas Airways Ltd. I was interested m the statement by the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr McLeay)  that not all of the people who are being retrenched from Qantas are pilots. He said that in fact 96 of the persons who are being retrenched are pilots and the bulk of the rest are cadets who have certificates. I think that is a pretty fine distinction to make. 
I was somewhat surprised to hear the Assistant Minister speak so eloquently in defence of a socialist industry. That is something which I do not think many honourable members on this side of the House would have expected to hear. I congratulate him for his defence of an example which could be well followed by the Government. Unfortunately other successful industries which were government owned when this .Government came into office have been dissipated over the years. 
It is a socialist industry in any terms in which one would like to describe such an industry. It is wholly government owned and operated. 
As a matter of fact, according to the public relations people of one major firm in the United States of America, Australia is not one of the 4 countries in the world which that firm considers to be non-Communist or not under Communist control. I think we should consider, and consider very seriously, the first part of the amendment, which relates to arrangements being made for coproduction procedures for imported aircraft. Australia has been and still is one of the best customers of the United States for both civilian and military aircraft, yet of all the United States aircraft which have been brought into this country in recent years only the Sabre has been manufactured in Australia. Aircraft from other countries - the Mirage is a notable example - have been manufactured in Australia and I think the capacity of the Australian aircraft industry is beyond doubt. When it was put to the test it was able to manufacture aircraft equal to and at rates comparable with any country in the world. The Government has seemed to wish to discourage any entry by government aircraft factories into the field of aircraft manufacture, particularly civil aircraft. It is fairly well known that when it was mooted that Fokker Friendship aircraft would be put on Australian routes the Department of Civil Aviation or some sections of the Department wanted production lines set up so that assemblies could take place in Australia. It is also reasonably well known that this proposition was vetoed at government level. 
The number of Fokker Friendship aircraft which came into Australia and the number of aircraft which at that stage the Department of Civil Aviation or certain sections of it were aware would come into Australia made the setting up of production lines a viable proposition, but this was rejected by the Government at that time. So the opportunity for the Australian aircraft industry to participate in the civil aircraft market providing for Australia's own needs was lost. Similarly, offset orders have been minimal in most of the aircraft produced in Australia. We have spent very substantial sums of money in the purchasing of American aircraft, some of which we have paid for but we have yet to receive. If the figures stated by the Assistant Minister are right, we have received offset orders to the value of $3. 8m. It does not sound much when one thinks of at: least one order which is costing us $300m and when one considers that in the last 10 years we have most likely spent at least another S200m on American aircraft. 
I was not far out. We are borrowing money and paying interest on it in order to provide United States industries with the wherewithal to keep going. At least one of the aircraft for which a lot of money was paid - for more than it is worth - was ordered from a firm because of the political connotations of placing an order in that particular State at that lime. But Australian industry does not seem to rate the same consideration by the Australian Government. No real efforts to evolve our own aircraft industry and to maintain it at satisfactory levels have taken place. So we are now in a situation in which there is extreme unrest among employees in Australia's aircraft industries, including those employed at the Government Aircraft Factories, one of those other socialist industries in this country. 
The employees do not know what their future is. I accept the fact that the Minister cannot tell them because he does not know either. Yet again we have before this House propositions to borrow money outside Australia on what appear to be restricted terms, although it is interesting to note that the interest rates stated are lower than the interest rates available to Australian industry. We are faced with this proposition without any effort being made by the Government to obtain realistic offset orders. I think that this is the real crux of the matter. The Government does not appear to give any serious consideration to the need to develop and maintain our own industries. The Government Aircraft Factories have developed an aircraft which as yet is unnamed and which, I am led to believe, is the best of its type in respect of price and performance. Yet the manufacturers have no advance orders from military or government sources so that they can set up a production line and become competitive. 
A similar situation does not exist in the United States or in other manufacturing countries because they are concerned to support their native and basic industries and the skills in their countries. We hear from the Government side hours of highminded debate on Australia's need to be prepared to defend itself. Yet in fields which would be absolutely vital to Australia's future, such as our capacity to manufacture and to maintain our aircraft in the isolated situation in which we exist, we hear nothing. The Government shows little or no concern for a proposition of the type that I have mentioned. I believe that the amendment expresses a sentiment which the House should express and a sentiment that Australia should demand from those who are benefiting from our purchases, in exchange for the very substantial amounts that it spends on the purchase of aircraft, much greater levels of Australian participation in the construction and manufacture of the aircraft. It seems to me to be an unreal proposition that we should accept without question a situation which very few other countries would be prepared to accept. 
I make one other point. In his closing remarks the previous  speaker,  the Assistant Minister, mentioned the profitability of Qantas and compared that airline with a number of other airlines. He mentioned Pan American World Airways as one of the airlines which was not doing very well. I think he could have gone on to say that one of the reasons why it is not doing very well is the political activities of the United States Government. That Government has chosen to take away Pan Am's virtual monopoly of international air traffic, which it enjoyed. That Government has chosen to grant licences to people who are prepared to give the necessary financial support to the party in power at the particular time; so that unreal competition on international air routes has been created, to the detriment not only of Pan Am but also of Qantas. The licences have been granted not because of any necessity to develop the competition - there is plenty of international competition - but in order to satisfy the political requirements of the immediate situation. I think that should be plainly understood. Pan Am's problems in the airline industry are as much inflicted by the political activities of the  President  of the United States as they are by the limited volume of international air traffic. I think some of the problems facing Qantas stem from exactly the same source - political activities for political purposes of persons in high office. 
-Donations to campaign funds in the United States are quite often more important than realistic policy. I believe that the House should support the amendment. I believe that there is a need for the Parliament, which is basically responsible as the custodian of the people's money and assets - Qantas is one of the people's assets - to inquire into and ascertain why such errors in judgment have been made in the planning and operations of this airline that it has to dismiss about 130 pilots from its staff. It seems to me that somewhere along the line there has been a serious lack of planning. I find it difficult to accept the proposition of the Assistant Minister that the terms of the American Foreign Assistance Act do not apply to this loan. The second reading speech of the Minister states that the loan will be subject to a satisfactory undertaking on behalf of the Government or the airline not to utilise the aircraft in contravention of that Act. Either the loan is granted on the basis that the Agreement is upheld or the clause should not be in the Agreement at all. If, as the Assistant Minister said, the clause is non-operative because of the terms of the letter which has been provided then why is the clause required at all? It seems ridiculous to put a non-operative clause in a Bill. If the clause is operative then the letter which has been read is not worth the paper it is printed on. If (he clause is operative then we' are placing the airline in the. situation where it cannot fully utilise its aircraft or it must utilise them in defiance of an agreement which it has made. 
I suggest that in summing up the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation should explain to the House whether or not the terms under which the loan has been negotiated require Australia to comply with the terms of the United States Foreign Assistance Act or whether that clause is merely so much window dressing in order to satisfy someone's political requirements and that it means nothing. If the Jailer is the case, then the Minister should inform the House of the reason why that clause should not be deleted from the Bill. 
asked the Prime  Minister,  upon  notice: 
What was the total Commonwealth expenditure associated with the recent tour of Australia by the South- African rugby team. 
Have estimates been made of the Commonwealth's costs associated with the proposed visit to Australia of the South African cricket team. 
If so, under what heading do these estimates appear in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72. 
I  rise to bring only one point before the House. In the circumstances the recommendations of the Committee of Privileges are most likely all that the Committee could have brought forward. However  I  think that the Committee should have drawn to the attention of newspaper proprietors their responsibility to check the authenticity of letters of this type before they are published. It is easy for anyone to use any address on a letter. In this particular, case had the matter not been drawn to the attention of the Committee of Privileges it would never have been revealed that the person  purr  porting to be the author of this letter denigrating members of this Parliament does not dwell at the address shown on the letter and that no trace of that person so far has beยฐn found. It is fairly obvious to everyone that this person was either lacking in the necessary courage to disclose his identity or was a person who was deliberately mischievous and Irvine to denigrate the Parliament of Australia. 
It is my belief - this could well have been in the recommendations of the Committee - that editors of newspapers should seek to verify the authenticity  of  a letter of this type before it Is published. In fact. I think that with any  letter  which  is  critical of parsons holding  public office  trouble should b" token  to verify  whether the  person whO  purports to write the letter actually exists. This could be done in a preliminary  way  bv checking the Commonwea'th electoral roll. This  is  done by some provincial newspapers. For instance. th= newspaper in my area is quick to check on any letter of a controversial nature to ensure that the person purporting to have written it actually did write it and forward it. This could and should have been done on this occasion and it could have been one of the recommendations of the Committee that the editors of newspapers which publish such material should accept the responsibility  of  checking whether the person purporting to have written the letter has written it. For instance,  Mr Speaker,  there is nothing to stop a person signing your name to a letter and forwarding that letter to a newspaper which you normally would not see. The newspaper could . be in another State. That letter could be published as coming from the  Speaker  of this 
House. It could turn out that the person who wrote the letter, or the letter itself, gives no clue which would enable its authenticity to be traced. If the editor publishes that letter all that would happen is that an apology would be published, as has happened on this occasion in accordance with the Committee's recommendation. 
What troubles me is that whilst a number of people most likely would have read this letter, a considerably lesser number would have read the apology. Many people accept, as fact, what they read in print. This is an established trait of human nature. This letter having appeared in print, it is difficult to overcome the smear which was made on this Parliament and which will remain in the minds of some people forever more. I think it would have been desirable if the Committee had made the additional recommendation that newspaper editors should accept the responsibility for checking the authenticity of letters which are extremely critical of the Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Services. Is the Minister aware that no facilities exist for paraplegic patients who are unable to look after themselves and who do not have sufficient incomes to pay private hospital fees when they are discharged from Commonwealth repatriation centres or from hospitals in which they have been under care? What is the level of Commonwealth attendants' fees paid to the patients? Arc any proposals in hand to accommodate paraplegic patients between 16 and 65 years of age needing constant nursing or attendants' care? At present there appear to be no facilities for them whatsoever. 
I move: 
That the proposed expenditure for the Department of Supply by reduced by $1. 
I do so in order to direct the attention of the Government to the deterioration of the Australian aircraft industry. 
In moving that motion I think it is necessary for the Parliament to understand that any discussion on defence estimates which does not include discussions of the appropriate base for defence is a discussion of irrelevancies. If Australia is not prepared to maintain the vital defence services, such as an aircraft industry, we may as well reject the total estimates for the defence of this country. Without the back-up supplies, which would not be readily available from overseas in wartime, as has already been proven, no defence in fact exists. 
I am particularly concerned, as are other honourable members on this side of the chamber, with the deterioration in morale among employees of the Government Aircraft Factories and to a similar extent employees of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. For some time there have been proposals - nothing definite, which I suppose is understandable, but of very deep concern to those employed in the industry - for a merger between these 2 organisations. I think I should put my own position on this matter quite clearly. The Government Aircraft Factories were brought into being during the Second World War, when the Government felt that this type of operation was necessary to Australia's defence requirements. The Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation had then been in existence for some time. It was felt in a time of national need that a government-owned aircraft industry was required. I believe that is the context in which the Government Aircraft Factories should be examined. In that context a government-owned aircraft industry is still required. 
I think it is ludicrous to suggest that a defence industry can be merged with a private company which, because of its shareholdings and mode of operations, must be involved mainly in profit making. I wonder what members on the Government side or the public would think if it was suddenly suggested that Ansett Airlines of Australia should be merged with the Royal Australian Air Force or that the Peninsular and Orient Line should be merged with the Navy. I think these propositions are comparable to a proposal to merge a government defence operation with a private company. There are very strong feelings among the employees of the Government Aircraft Factories because quite  obviously they have a great deal to lose by such a merger. It has been suggested by the men concerned that men are being downgraded in the Government Aircraft Factories in preparation for their being offered lower rated jobs in the proposed merged company. It has even been suggested in some quarters that the arrangements for this merger were signed in 12th October this year. Whether this is true or false, the men on the job believe it to be true, and this is a serious thought. 
The arrangements for the merger. 
Yes. As I said, the important thing is, firstly, the morale of the men concerned. They are as vital to Australia's defence as are any persons in the armed  forces. 1  have a letter which has been circulated to every member of the Parliament. It is of some length and was written by a joint committee of Government Aircraft Factories personnel. It was circulated so that their views could be readily known to members of Parliament. I ask leave of the Minister to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) 
I should also like to deal with one or two other matters. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  wished to take part in this debate but owing to the restrictions of time he will not be able to do so. However, like myself, he has attended a number of meetings of employees at both the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories which dealt with the proposed mergers. There are a number of questions which have been raised and which are still of real concern to the men concerned. I do not believe that it is compatible for an organisation which is founded on the making of profit to be fitted into the defence pattern. I would hate to see the situation where the Army, the Navy or the Air Force was asked to make a profit. 
This industry appears to be in a flat spot at the moment but it also appears that there are prospects of vast improvement in its areas of activity in the not too distant future. 1 note that the Government is seeking at least one new aircraft for the Air Force which I hope that, unlike the FI 1 1, the Government Aircraft Factories are given the opportunity to build. I hope that (hey are given the same margin for quoting on this aircraft which was given to the American company, General Dynamics Corporation, which built the Fill. The Government receives a quote of $10 and pays $50. If this sort of margin is given to any industry in Australia, I am quite sure it could supply the required equipment. 
The amendment which I have moved is primarily designed to draw attention to this matter but there are some other points which I believe should be drawn to the attention of the House. One is that an aircraft which 1 understand is the best of its type in the world has been developed by the Government Aircraft Factories. I understand that one of the delays which have occurred in marketing this aircraft has been because marketing arrangements through the Government Aircraft Factories, through Government channels, arc not necessarily adequate. Demonstrations which were to have taken place in Canberra tomorrow have been delayed because the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is overseas. This is a matter of concern because I believe that any delays in placing this aircraft on the market and before the public reduce any advantage gap which at present exists. I also understand that the situation is that no production in anticipation of sales of this aircraft can be entered into; that production cannot be commenced until actual sales are made. This makes the naming of delivery dates almost a total impossibility. 
I want to make one other point, although I do not have adequate time to debate a matter such as this. I point out that the Government Aircraft Factories have a record of service to Australia's defence which is second to that of no other industry in the world. At the time when they were set up, they performed the duties for which they were established with remarkable skill and produced remarkable results. They now face the prospect of a convenient merger but one which could well result in further reductions in confidence in the industry. It has been alleged - I realise that the Minister is not in a position to say whether this is so because he is waiting for reports - that the more profitable sections of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, namely, the helicopter section and the engine plant section, are not involved in the proposals for a merger. It has also been indicated - and quite obviously it is not known at this stage - that the Government Aircraft Factory at Avalon may or may not be involved. However, my concern is that there is a large reservoir of highly skilled personnel who have proved themselves capable of manufacturing - in some cases, better than the original makers - and maintaining and modifying any aircraft which Australia's defence requires. This operation could well be in serious jeopardy if profit taking is made the major motive for its future operations. I think the amendment expresses adequately the requirements of this Parliament. I believe that the defence content of the industry is far more important than profit taking. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth- 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian cititzenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, wil] ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs I think it is fair to comment on what is potentially the most dangerous situation in the world today, that which exists in Pakistan and India. This matter has been raised in this Parliament a number of times, but obviously not nearly often enough to acquaint the Government of the real seriousness of the situation. On 2 occasions in this House  I  attempted  to  move a motion dealing with the level of Australian aid. Finally a subsequent amendment which was moved- indicated the level of aid which was thought by members on this side of the House, and at least some members on the other side of the House, to be desirable. Most Government supporters chose to reject that proposition which was that the level of Australian aid should be equal to approximately $1 for each Australian, or approximately $13m. The present level of Australian aid is $5.5m, which is considerably less than satisfactory in view of the very critical situation which exists in that area and the tremendous human need which exists and is growing daily. 
One of the things which must be recognised is that if countries such as Australia do not contribute then the Indian people have to foot the bill. This means that their development projects are set back, that greater pressures are placed on the budget of that country and that the dangers - if dangers exist in that area - grow. We are just in the process of disengaging ourselves from a disastrous exercise in Vietnam. We are in the process of engaging ourselves in an equally disastrous exercise in Cambodia. But how much more serious, if the Australian Government really believes that communism in Asia is a threat to Australia, is the threat that the democratic government of India could collapse under the weight of the human and economic calamity which is created by the problems of East Pakistan and the flow of refugees from there into India? It might be worth while if some Government supporters think about this. 
If in 1966 the Government could blandly claim in election material that the North Vietnamese going into South Vietnam posed a threat of invasion to Australia then possibly it could think about what sort of a threat could exist if the economy of India is not able to sustain the type of strain which is being placed upon it by this crisis. The democratic form of government then becomes threatened. This is a real possibility and one which might well be worthy of some thought on the part of the Government. There are already 500 million people in India in a serious state of underdevelopment and there is a serious lack of economic capacity in that country which is faced with the need to find something like 
S 1,200m a year for refugees. Our aid of S5.5m seems to be a pretty paltry level of assistance on a human level, and if we use the more material proposition of insurance, which was what we were using to justify our presence in Vietnam, then it is a pretty poor premium to be paying to ensure the future security of Australia if the Government ever seriously believed its own propaganda about Vietnam. If the Government is too miserly - and it appears to be - to give substantial cash contributions to India then possibly it can kill 2 birds with one stone. Country Party supporters may be interested in this proposition. 
At the moment one of the major requirements needed to cope with the refugee problem is blankets. Blankets are made out of wool of which we have plenty. It has cost us millions of dollars to store the wool we have in Australia. Australian mills are not working. There is plenty of manpower and the capacity to manufacture blankets exists. This material method of giving aid might lend itself to the Government's thinking if it is not prepared to give the cash which is desperately needed. Blankets would be likely to provide some relief to the refugees and some relief from our own built-in economic problems. I ask the Government to reconsider the aid which it has provided. I believe it is a reasonable request to be made by any member of this Parliament and is one that should be made by every member. The present level of aid is unsatisfactory and should be greatly increased. No-one can doubt the need. 
The other side of the India-Pakistan coin is the real possibility of conflict between those 2 countries. Australia is involved at least by default. Pakistan is a signatory to the SEATO treaty, a treaty which the Australian Government never fails to mention when it feels it is politically desirable; a treaty which apparently did not get an airing during the recent visit of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to the United States. During the tyranny in West Pakistan the Australian representatives sat with the Pakistani representatives at a SEATO council meeting but apparently they did not feel that the matter was worth raising. Possibly there was a lack of foresight on the part of the Australian Government. But the fact of the matter is that one of the allies to whose aid we are treaty bound to come has suppressed a government led by Sheik Mujibur Rahman in which the Awami League won 167 out of 169 seats in East Pakistan and in fact obtained an absolute majority of seats in the elected parliament of the whole of Pakistan. Someone made a mistake when he drew the electoral boundaries. Had he seen the Liberal and Country Parties in Australia, that sort of situation would not have developed. But he made the mistake and the wrong government was elected. So the army was sent in. That is not a sort of situation that Australia should tolerate. It is a situation in which we should make far stronger representations than we are making. I note that some statements are being made overseas by the Prime Minister. These statements seem to be more in conflict each day. 
One other matter that I will raise in the short time left to me is the problems that confront Australia - I think through lack of initiatives rather than through initiatives - arising out of Britain's proposed entry into the European Economic Community. I note from the news bulletins and Press tonight that the Prime Minister supposedly is patching up the mess that was made of Australia's negotiations on the Common Market subject at an earlier time. We can only take that to mean that the Prime Minister is saying that the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  either was incompetent or just did not do the job he was sent to do. I suggest that if that is a fact the Prime Minister should have said so at the time. What is more important is that, as Australia's vital interests were involved - it is too late to start trying to patch up things now; the boat has already sunk as far as Australia is concerned - the Prime Minister himself should have been in London making sure that Australia's viewpoint was put. My own opinion is that the  Deputy  Prime Minister went to London 6 months too late and that he traded, as the Government so often does, on the hope theory. The Prime Minister has gone there now to patch up the cracks - but, as I said, after the boat has sunk as far as Australia is concerned. All the talk in the world will not alter the things that have already been signed. Britain is going into the Common Market. The terms for Australia are less than Australia would consider satisfactory. The Government is now trying to negotiate something for New 
Guinea, lt is just a little late, lt is not unusual for the Government to wake up  a  little late. It has just done so on Vietnam. 
Unfortunately the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has chosen, I think because of a weak case, to attack Opposition members for not discussing in any great detail the position for terminating building societies. No honourable member on the Opposition side has objected to the proposition of 30 per cent of the contribution going to the Home Builders Account. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  in a point of order raised the fact that the detailed operations of the Home Builders Account are subject to 
State legislation and that there are no proposals in the Commonwealth legislation to alter that situation. 
The position of terminating building societies is not good because of the extreme limitations which are placed on the level of loans and because of the lack of availability of funds, except through the Home Builders Account. I am fully aware of this. I am the  chairman  of 3 funds and 1 know that the number of homes which can be financed on the loans which are available diminishes on each occasion on which moneys are made available. Therefore, unless substantially increased amounts of money are made available the role of terminating building societies will diminish materially because home building costs are increasing at a much faster rate than the rate at which funds are being made available. This is a serious point, but it is one which would obviously lend itself to a debate in this place because of the very facts which were raised by the honourable member tor Bennelong. 
The legislation covering this subject is substantially State legislation. The Commonwealth insists on an allocation of 30 per cent to the States. I think it may well be, if the Commonwealth genuinely believes that this type of operation should be continued and expanded, that as a consequence of its grants it may have to lay down conditions for their application which tit in with Commonwealth Government policy, if there is such a policy, with regard to the Home Builders Account. At the moment the money is handed over and it becomes the sole responsibility of the States. Because the Commonwealth is so lacking in concern about the operation and future of these funds, I would suggest to the Minister that he should cease criticising other people, lt is quite obvious that the Commonwealth has no interest at all in the matter but that it only requires the money to be made available. It does not require that adequate loans be made available to enable homes to be built. It does not require the funds which are made available to be utilised in any specific way. I raised one point earlier which could be covered only by this means, that is. the renovation or purchase of houses. Under existing conditions - under the Victorian legislation anyhow - only relatively new homes can be purchased under the Home Builders Account where in many cases a better deal could be obtained by the purchasers if the money were made available for the purchase of existing homes. 
Unfortunately the Minister decided, for purely political reasons, that he would fly a kite, just as the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  flew a kite in the night on abortion reform, which has only ever been enacted in Australia by Liberal governments and which is the official policy of the Australian Country Party. Apparently what Liberal governments do not do is the responsibility of the Opposition. It may be a good way of covering one's own sins. But I would suggest to the Minister that before he stands up and accuses the Australian Labor Party of a lack of concern he should look exactly at what the Government is doing. It is allocating a sum of money and nothing else. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The purpose of this Bill is to replace the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement with proposals which the Commonwealth Government regards as suitable. But the States were upset at the lack of consultation between the Commonwealth and the States prior to the introduction of these measures. 1 think that the States still feel uncomfortable and are dissatisfied with the fact that the Commonwealth has decided to act in what can only be described as a highhanded manner in regard to the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. The States fully believed, following upon the passage of a Bill through this Parliament last year to extend the period of the previous Agreement in order that further consultations could take place between the Commonwealth and the States, that it was the intention of the Commonwealth to negotiate for a new agreement. This was the opinion of the States and I think they were quite justified in having that opinion. 
Instead of doing this the Commonwealth, without prior consultation with the States or without giving any information to the States on this matter, introduced a totally new scheme to which, I understand, the States have now agreed. I suppose if you are placed in a situation where you are offered something and told: 'Take it or leave it. That is our proposition; it is better than nothing'; you would agree to accept it. But there are certain aspects of this scheme that concern me, and also aspects in regard to the manner in which the scheme was introduced. I am not the only one who is concerned even though the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has said that the State Ministers for Housing are now happy. When introducing a housing Bill in the Victorian Parliament  Mr Meagher,  the Victorian Minister of Housing, said: 
Prior to that date, the States had considered over several conferences the basic needs of a continuing arrangement and, quite rightly in my opinion, expected that the Commonwealth would consult with them in due course. Instead, the Federal Budget spelt out the new conditions, the basic principles of which were declared by die Commonwealth Government to be non-negotiable. 
In other words, whether the States liked it or not they had to accept it. That is not my statement; that is a statement by a Liberal, the Victorian Minister of Housing. It was made on 11th November 1971 in the Victorian Parliament. It is a relatively current statement and it is a statement which would have been made by a person with a knowledge of all the circumstances involved. 
I would like to refer to one or two other areas. Firstly, the grant of $2.75m a year in lieu of the 1 per cent interest subsidy may over the period involved be more beneficial or less beneficial to the individual States. But what concerns me is that the percentage basis of allocation is fixed for a period of 5 years, irrespective of the expenditure of a particular State. If one looks at the percentages which are to be offered, it is a pretty shocking indictment of a couple of governments in Australia or there must be some other reason. We heard tonight one of the most novel apologies for the Country Party Government in Queensland which was made by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  when he referred to the reason why the Queensland percentage on housing in the previous 5 years - which, I understand, is the basis of the figure in the Bill - was so low. 
It concerns me that the State of Queensland is to receive 7.7 per cent of the amount of money to be allocated under this Bill. This 7.7 per cent does not represent anything like the population ratio in that State. In fact it is only a little less than half of what that State should receive if population ratios were adhered to. For the next 5 years, irrespective of whether or not the State of Queensland increases its housing expenditure, it will have a fixed limit on how much Commonwealth subsidy it can receive. However, if a change in government takes place next year the Agreement is not renegotiable nor is it variable. Tt may be that another government, placing different priorities on housing, would increase the Commonwealth allocation to Queensland on the basis of its population. If this were done Queensland could be penalised for 4 years because of the activities of a previous government and not because of any future activity. 1 am told that this is unlikely to occur but it is quite possible. With such an extremely low level of expenditure I think it is desirable for Queensland to increase i's housing expenditure. I am told that Queensland operates on a 2-tier system of expenditure on housing. It may be that some of the Queensland expenditure did not qualify; I do not know. The allocation for Queensland is completely out of proportion in relation to the normally applied ratio. 
There are one or two other matters which I think are of considerable importance. One is the recognition in the Bill that high interest rates are to prevail and no action is to be taken to counter them. The assumption in the Bill is that approximately a 1 per cent reduction in interest will be available to the purchasers of housing commission houses and houses built through the lending institutions. At current rates of interest this leaves an amount of 6 per cent to 7 per cent interest to be paid on the construction of dwelling houses. This rate of interest is usurious and places housing in the luxury field within the current price structure. A person who borrows $12,000 for a house at 7i per cent, which is about the cheapest rate that a person could get- 
He cannot get it through any Commonwealth institution. They still live in the dim dark ages where they think that $8,000 or $9,000 is a relatively good figure. 
If a person can get $12,000 at 7* per cent - I know where he can get it - to be repaid over 20 years that person will be paying in the vicinity of $270 to $280 a quarter of which $220 to $230 will be to service interest. Each 1 per cent which is added to the interest bill or deducted from the interest bill represents about $2 a week to be paid by the person who is borrowing the money, the home builder. In the last 3 years interest rates have been increased at the Commonwealth's behest by 2 per cent. In effect the cost to the purchaser of a home of that increase in interest rate has been from $10 to $12 a month or in excess of $2 a week. 
The Government talks about inflation when by its policies it has increased the cost of purchasing a house by between $2 and $4 a week. The cost of housing has increased at an alarming rate. It is so high now that in some areas - Sydney is one - it would be impossible for a person receiving about the average income of persons working for wages as opposed to the average male income, which is a fictitious figure which has no relationship to the majority of the community, and purchasing a house without a substantial proportion of the capital to meet the repayments. That is all there is to it. He just could not afford to purchase a home under the existing interest rate and existing price structure. If he tried to borrow the money from the Commonwealth Bank to buy a bouse he would have to find $12,000 himself, because the Commonwealth Bank has not increased the amounts available for lending to anything near present housing costs. These are problems which have to be faced and to which the Government should give serious consideration. If the Government supports a policy of home ownership it should facilitate the purchase of a home. It is not good enough to create a situation where the interest rates are such that it is impossible for a family on a relatively good income to meet the repayments without serious difficulty or without having to depend on a 2-wage economy, and that is how most people are buying their homes al the moment. 
I add one other comment. Another section of the Bill provides for a grant of $l.2m each year for the next 5 years to assist with rental rebates. If the figures which I have are correct, this will provide close to one-third of the amount spent on rental rebates by the States, excluding South Australia, in the last year. The problem of low income earners is twofold. They cannot afford to buy a house because the interest rates are such that they just cannot pay one off. If they can pay one off they have to pay it off over a period of time which is so extensive that they cannot possibly expect to be productive workers earning income at the conclusion of that period. The Victorian Government is selling houses with repayments over 45 years. If a person starts paying it off at the agc of 20 and is lucky enough to be able to work to 60 years of age or, if he is unskilled, to 65 years of age, he will have paid the house off at the time he retires. So for the whole of his life he will have had it dragging around his neck. 
The situation is that low income earners have to look for alternative accommodation. The Housing Commission in Victoria has a 14-month waiting period for accommodation. In the area of Geelong, which I represent, there are plenty of people who need rented dwellings. Despite what the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  says there are still people who have to move themselves and who cannot afford to purchase houses. 
There are plenty of people who were encouraged by governments to buy houses in areas of State activity, such as the State mine in Victoria, and who lost their entire savings by investing in houses in those areas which were closed up by governments without consideration at a later stage. There are people who need rental dwellings. In the area which 1 represent one in every 5 houses rented by the Victorian Mousing Commission is occupied by a one-parent family, most of them deserted wives. This ratio shows fairly effectively just how little $1.2m will be in relieving the problems of persons who are not able to pay an economic level of rent. There are plenty of people in the community who are not able to pay an economic level of rent. 
The Commonwealth Government can either tackle this problem or continue to avoid it. I believe that this Bill is little more or less than a gesture. It does not tackle the problem. It does give the Commonwealth the right to Say that it has done something about the problem and that it is up to the States to do the rest. I believe the problem is bigger than that. It is a human problem. People have to have somewhere to live. I think that if members of the Slate Parliaments could speak in a debate such as this they could relate tale after tale of people who are being evicted from housing commission properties because they are unable to meet the rent. If there are no adequate rebates to provide them with rents that they can afford and there is no accommodation available other than State housing commission accommodation, I want to know where they are expected to go. Where are the programmes or the plans by the Government to cater for these people? 
This is a limited debate. I support the amendment put forward by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  I would like to have spoken to other sections of that amendment, especially that section dealing with the renovation of old houses. It seems to me to be a criminal situation where in order to get a loan under this Bill to provide alternative accommodation housing commissions have to and do purchase and tear down old buildings many of which are extremely suitable for adaptation for many years of future living and most likely adaptable at much lower costs than the cost to tear them down and rebuild. This seems to me to be a very short' sighted policy and it is a policy which is not only economically unsound but I think culturally unsound. It would be far better if some of our older buildings were renovated and utilised for re-renting. . 
I would like to have spoken about some of the other aspects of the Bill. I support the amendment and I ask the Government to give serious consideration to the problems which a fixed position for 5 years will create especially if the relativity between the States - I make a special point of mentioning Queensland - is altered. I also suggest that it may be to the best advantage of all concerned if when future agreements on housing and other things are being discussed the secrets are told to those who will be asked to implement them, namely, the States. Obviously the Liberal Minister for Housing in Victoria,  Mr Meagher,  is totally unsatisfied with the manner in whish his Government was treated by the Commonwealth. 
The amendment before the Committee is an attempt to provide for members of the forces the benefits of war service home finance. At today's interest rates, these benefits are considerable. I think that it is reasonable and proper that a Government which, over a considerable period, has consisently claimed that the rights of exservicemen should be paramount, has claimed also that it is not easy or not possible to maintain a volunteer army, and has based its case before the electorate on this type of platform should accept the amend men! which would provide for all persons who have served in the armed forces of this country access to the benefits of this Act. 
Unfortunately under the provisions of the existing Act, many persons are denied access to this form of benefit. I quote one case whichI had before the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  recently. It concerned a person who was called up during the last war, who served in Townsville, who was eligible to be transferred to other parts and who was at Townsville at the time when that area was bombed, but who is not eligible to receive war service homes finance. The proposal that persons who had their lives at risk and who over a considerable period volunteered for service in the armed forces and so placed their lives at risk should not be denied access to the benefits of this Act to me is totally unanswerable. It is important that this Parliament should recognise the benefits which are given to persons under this Act and also the right of ex-servicemen to obtain these benefits. 
It is possible indeed. I think that it is most likely that a far more feasible proposition would be to move an amendment to insert new words after the words 'Australian Soldier' so that the definition would read: 
Australian soldier' means a serving serviceman or person. 
By doing this we would include serving members of the forces and would not eliminate by default any other person. I realise that, in redrafting any amendment hastily, problems of drafting arise. What the original amendment seeks is not necessarily provided for when some of the words in this clause are eliminated. By writing into section 4 of the Act the words that I have proposed, that section would then read:  (1.) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears- 
Australian Soldier' means persons serving in the Australian. Forces or a person who. during the continuance of the. war which commenced in the year One thousandnine hundred and fourteen or during the continuance of any war in which  His  Majesty became engaged on or after the third dayof September, One thousand nine hundred and thirty nine- 
I believe that the words 'Her Majesty' might be more appropriate now in that sub-section. If those words were added, this would mean that serving personnel would be covered by this Act I think that is unquestionable and that no person who is currently covered by the Act would be eliminated. 
This seems a simple proposition and a proposition which should be adopted by this Committee. It should be voted for by every member of the Committee. I think that it is unfortunate that the Minister for Housing has chosen to reject unequivocally any form of amendment. He has used the excuse that an amendment in this form would alter the Act in a way which is not acceptable. I accept his argument on this point. But I do not accept the proposition that, because this amendment is not acceptable, he should not indicate that the 
Government would be prepared to consider an amendment which did meet the requirements which we are endeavouring to place in the Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many drugs (a) have been removed from and (b) were added to the list of drugs available free to pensioners in each 4 month period over the last 3 years. 
What was the price per maximum quantity prescription of each drug deleted. 
Where a new drug was listed as a replacement for a deleted drug. What was the price' per maximum quantity prescription of the replacement drug. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
On what date was the most recent proposal to' redistribute electoral boundaries fa) announced to the Parliament and (b) adopted. 
 I rise to support the amendment. I believe that there is a real necessity to examine the needs of education in our community, and in a way which will indicate where the greatest needs lie and what actions are necessary in order to meet those needs. The community is suffering from an unplanned approach to educational needs. The Commonwealth has entered into 2 fields of education, both at the secondary level - science blocks and secondary school libraries. It is quite clear to everyone that the former was an election gimmick in 1963, and one which has been carried through. The second proposition was put forward when the science block programme appeared to slacken off. But as I have said in earlier debates here, the libraries grant for secondary schools is an area in which the Commonwealth has made some errors in judgment, certainly as far as the needs of students in culturally underprivileged areas are concerned. 
As to libraries provided for secondary schools, it appears that the needs of schools in the more culturally privileged areas are met before the needs of schools in the areas where good reading material and access to that type of environment are most needed by students. These latter schools are the last to be provided with their needs, lt seems to be almost an act of faith by State governments that the children from the more affluent areas have their needs met first. Let me take the case of 2 different schools in Geelong close to one another. The Norlane High School, which is in a housing commission area and where the needs would be as great as those anywhere else, could not get a science block for 5 or 6 years yet in the same city the Geelong College was able to get grants for science blocks at two of its buildings. 
I. am pointing out the fact that one school was able to get grants for 2 science blocks - not one - for 2 different buildings at a period when another school was not able to get one at all. There is no way one can argue that the people of Geelong College could not have put up with the inconvenience of doing their science teaching at the parent school if it meant that the children at Norlane High School were going to get some assistance. I want to raise 2 matters about libraries. In areas of cultural underprivilege where children normally are not exposed to fairly well educated parents the problems that these children face are infinitely greater than those of other children, even leaving out totally the economic aspects and dealing only with the educational opportunities and probabilities of the child. To start a library programme at secondary level, especially in areas where general library facilities are not available to children, is to start too late for those children. Their opportunities will have totally disappeared. Their educational opportunities have to start at primary school and at kindergarten. 
If they do not get a head start in an educational programme their chances of receiving a Commonwealth scholarship, under a system which is geared to the culturally and economically privileged as opposed to the culturally and economically underprivileged, are nil. This is borne out by the figures of recipients of Commonwealth scholarships which are published regularly. With some planning and cooperation with the States it should be possible to provide adequate libraries which could be utilised as a community facility, especially at primary schools, which are fairly evenly distributed through most built up areas. In country areas the operation of library bookmobiles would most likely be of great advantage to the education system and to the community, without incurring the great deal of extra money that is being expended at the moment to duplicate facilities. The school system and the community should, wherever possible, be integrated. I believe that with a degree of planning it should be possible, especially with facilities such as libraries, to bring about this type of unity, lt is also fairly true to say that in some areas the States are abusing the grants which are being provided by the Commonwealth. 1 am a member of a high school committee which opened its school in a Commonwealth library. The first permanent building was a Commonwealth library which, I must say, is a magnificent building. But next year the State Government proposes to remove some of the temporary accommodation which was provided at that school, because the library is considered to represent a number of class rooms and it is to be utilised as such. If it is a library and if its purpose is to add something to the school then surely the Commonwealth should make it absolutely essential in the conditions of grant that this should be used as a library and not as a group of classrooms which will enable the State to avoid having to provide the  necessary classroom accommodation. It is a serious problem and one which I think should be dealt with, but we are picking problems out of the air. It does not matter how much we talk, unless we establish adequate facilities whereby information can be obtained, investigations carried out and recommendations made. 
The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  mentioned primary schools, as I have done several times in this House. But in my opinion the present way in which grants of this nature are made is too haphazard. They are not made on the basis of the educational opportunity needs of any- given community. They are made purely on the basis of 'We have a certain amount of money and this appears to be a reasonably good proposition -from, our point of view'. This to me is not the way we should be running our education system. I am sure it would be far more satisfactory if the priorities for schools needing assistance were fixed on the basis of the assistance that they need, and if a priority level was developed whereby a school got the assistance that was available in the order of its need, not merely because it fell into one of the particular categories set out and there happened to be money available though money was not available in another category to provide a similar level of assistance. I do not decry the fact that many schools both private and public have benefited under the provisions of both these Acts, but in any amount of cases the needs of the situation have not been the prime consideration. Rather it has been the availability of funds within a particular education system financed  by Commonwealth grants. The State school system, possibly because of the manner in which the State governments operate, appears to have suffered. I think that the prime need in the library' field, to provide access to adequate supplies of good literature al ihe primary school level, has not been met and is not capable of being met under this type of legislation. 
As I said before, it is not much good providing a child with a library in a secondary school if that child has not had the opportunity of access to a library in a primary school, particularly a child who comes from a largely uneducated parent background where there is no encouragement of learning. Once that child reaches secondary school he will have lost th s educational opportunity, so I support the amendment because I am sure any inquiry would bring out the absolute need for children to receive assistance - especially assistance in learning - and to be exposed to good literature long before they go to secondary school. I trust that honourable members opposite - after hearing his speech, I am sure the honourable member for Maranoa would support the amendment - will support the amendment because I think it provides machinery whereby we can at least find out where the real needs of the community are and I hope that at some time some effort will be made to provide children in underprivileged areas - underprivileged culturally not economically - with an educational opportunity which will enable a greater percentage of them to obtain the level of education which is available almost as a right to other sections of the community. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Wednesday, 1 December 1971 
asked the Postmaster-Gen eral, upon notice: 
Has the practice of placing the Royal Insignia on post boxes and vehicles of his Department been discontinued? If so. when and why? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  ai:d Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the community of the University of Western Australia respectfully sheweth: 
Thai the increase in tertiary eduation fees for 1972 will cause increased hardship for a significant proportion of tertiary students. 
That tertiary fees and concomitant living costs are a formidable barrier preventing significant numbers of students entering tertiary education who nevertheless have the ability to do so. 
Thai the increase in tertiary fees for 1972 is immoral, in that Universities and Colleges of Advanced Education are being further restricted to that minimal section of the Australian population who can afford to send their sons and daughters onto higher education. 
That all education should be free including tertiary education. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that rft* Federal Government take immediate action to introduce in order of priority. 
Universal Commonwealth Scholarships 
Commonwealth Scholarships onthe basis of need rather than academic ability. 
Abolition of tertiary fees. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever  pray. 
Petition received. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Structure of protection in Australia 
In its 1967-68 report, the Board included some information on the nominal rates of duty on final products in the Australian Tariff. Since then it has undertaken a more detailed study of  the effective rales of protection afforded manufacturing industries in Australia. The results of this stud);, together with an explanation of the methods used and the assumptions made, are given in Appendix 2 to this report. While the data for individual industries contain some approximations, the Board is satisfied that these would not significantly affect the conclusions reached. 
According to the study, the average rales of effective protection available to individual Australian manufacturing industries in 1967-68 ranged from (J to 120 per cent, and the average rate for manufacturing industry as a whole was 46 per cent. This average nile of effective protection is equivalent to about $2,700m per annum. That is, if all tariff protection available to manufacturing industries in 1967-6S had been fully used, the total cost of the manufacturing processes would have been $2,700ni greater than with the same pattern of manufacturing and no tariffs (see para- 42 in Appendix 2). In interpreting these and other results of the study it should be kept in mind that the figures are averages of the protection available lo industries; that such averages conceal wide variations in the rates for activities comprising each industry; and that the protection available is nol always fully used by. the protected industry. 
The average effective rate of protection needed by manufacturing industry to compete profitably against imports is below - and probably significantly below - the average effective rate of protection afforded by the Tariff. This conclusion is suggested by estimates made by the Board of the extent to which different industries utilise the protection available to i hem (see para. 19 of Appendix 2); and it is consistent with the history of protection for many, industries in Australia (including two of the largest, Metal Manufactures and Machinery). Between 1929 and 1932, the Government introduced a number of emergency duties which substantially increased the protection for a wide range of products against import from both General and Preferential sources. Most of the Preferential rates were reduced as a result of Tariff Board inquiries following the United Kingdom-Australia Trade Agreement in 1932. and of the Exchange Adjustment Act of 1933: but the General rates tended to remain at the higher levels, lt has been estimated that, as a result largely of the tariff changes made between 1929 and 1932, the average level of the General tariff in 1938-39 was 54 per cent higher than in 1928- 29; the average level of the Preferential tariff, on the other hand, was estimated to be only 9 per cent higher. During the last 30 years the General rates on many individual products have been reviewed by the Tariff Board, and some of the duties imposed between 1929 and 1932 have been reduced. But large sectors of the Tariff have not been reviewed, and the industries concerned still have today essentially the same tariffs as those imposed for emergency reasons in the early 1930s. 
But this is not the strong point of this statement; this is the weak point of this statement. The strong point of the statement is that large sectors of industry are protected by tariffs that have not been reviewed since the 1930s and that average effective rates of tariff needed by manufacturing industry to compete profitably against imports are probably significantly below the average rate actually afforded by the tariff. If this is the case the Board must be equipped to inquire quickly into those large sectors of industry, and others too, and set out clearly, even beyond probability, which tariffs there are which actually give manufacturing industries protection significantly above that which they need to compete against imports. The Tariff Board is much at fault for publishing statements of this kind and the Government is at fault for merely receiving them. If the situation is as the Board says, action must be taken to find out where the tariffs are significantly too high, and reports and recommendations must be made and acted upon without delay. The Minister knows as well as we all know that the Tariff Board, equipped as it is, can never do this. He knows that at its present rate of working it will take years and years to do this, and we will be saying in the 1990s that we still have large sectors of  industry  that have been protected by tariffs that have never been reviewed since the 1930s. 
To retain tariffs which are significantly higher than are necessary is indefensible, if that is what we are doing, and a tariff board that says that they are significantly higher than necessary and a government that accepts that statement and still does nothing about it are equally indefensible. 1 say to the Tariff Board and the Government: Get to work and show us the tariffs that are significantly higher than they should be and take appropriate action. The second main proposition of the Tariff 
Board is that it would not  recommend  protection for  industries  found to have little prospect of operating with an effective rate of tariff protection below 50 per cent, [t says: 'If you need a tariff over 50 per cent you will be put out of business unless there are special circumstances'. The e eni of this tariff is indicated by the  table  on page 86 of the Board's 1967-68 report. It is a short table and I ask leave to have that table incorporated in Hansard. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="075131197112075_94_0.jpg"></graphic>

New industries are not to be encouraged and existing industries are not to be permitted to expand if duties in excess of 50 per cent of effective rate arc required. 
In conclusion, 1 would like to say that I have no feeling that industry will be destroyed because of this policy, but sections of it will be seriously damaged and this will spread and continue until it reaches an unacceptable stage. When this occurs something will be done to bring about another change. No government can stand up to the less of employment which would follow from serious damage to such a big and important sector of the economy. 
What will the Government do? What does it have to say about this matter? We are in the dark. The Government has been ambiguous and has prevaricated. 1 shall outline now as quickly as I can what the Opposition will do in these cases. Firstly, we will fully equip those who inquire into tariffs to discover and report, without delay, any tariff which is higher - not merely significantly higher - than is needed. Secondly, we will not support the proposition that merely because a tariff is in excess  of 50  per cent or higher it is excessive. Indeed, I now want to set out the broad pattern of what the Opposition will do about tariffs and industrial development when it becomes the Government. We will establish a ministry of manufacturing industry which will be concerned with the development of manufacturing industry, the processing of minerals and She export  of  the products  of  secondary industry and of processed minerals. We will have a ministry of primary industry which will do the same for primary industry. We will expand and develop the Tariff Board, or whatever it may be called, to: 
Fully and expeditiously inquire into existing industry as to its supply, methods, costs, profits, prices and its relations with other manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers; 
Report as to existing efficiency and economies and upon changes likely to improve efficiency and economies, including the scale of operations; 
What, if any, provision should be made for the development or maintenance of the industry. Such provision would extend beyond tariffs or subsidy and would include such things as loans to carry over seasonal and other terminating disadvantages and assistance in exporting such as long term credit, shipping and insurance which would have meaning and reality; 
Research and introduction of new machinery and techniques; 
Factors and conditions other than efficiency and economy which .should be taken into account and the effect of them.  1 emphasise these other factors and conditions. To me there is not only one test about what we should do in Australia - the test of what is efficient and economic. We have also been concerned in Australia with a standard and quality of life which is not, if we can prevent it, to be left to the pressures of the economic jungle. I agree substantially with what  Sir Robert  Webster said in another part of his speech when he staled: 
The chief reason for the inability of Australian manufacturers to compete generally with imported goods is the high standard of living which we enjoy in this country, which follows from our hours of work, rates of pay, holiday, sick leave and other fringe benefits of various kinds - all prescribed by law. 
I agree with all those matters provided that  Sir Robert  includes them for the owners and managers of industry as well. He appears to be thinking only of workers. The Australian Labor Party will not accept any reduction of tariffs or any change of policy which will cause unemployment if those unemployed are to be left to the capitalist market - national or international. We will not accept tariff or policy changes which cause unemployment which is unfair or unreasonable, or if ample provision is not made for those who may become unemployed. In order to put such a policy into operation the Australian Labor Party will act along lines similar to these: 
When it is recommended that action should be taken to reduce tariffs or subsidies or other assistance so that it might be expected that an industry or part of an industry would be limited or terminated so as to cause unemployment the recommendation must include indications where more efficient employment, if any, is available. 
A re-employment, retraining and compensation commission will be established to administer the following provisions: (a) Where any person has been employed in any industry that is limited or terminated as a result of public policy such person will receive a disemployment allowance equal to the pay he received when employed in the limited or curtailed industry until he obtains employment comparable with that lost, (b) Where any person has been employed in any industry that is limited or terminated as a result of public policy such person shall be entitled to retraining on a part or full-time basis and an appropriate retraining allowance will be paid to such person during retraining. 
Existing standards and qualifications will be met fully in any retraining that takes place, (c) Any person who is an owner or shareholder in an industry normally receives profits and other returns which assume that such person acceps the benefits and losses of risk-taking, but compensation may be paid to any such person who is an owner or shareholder of any industry limited or terminated as a result of public policy if he has not received profits and/or other benefits from that industry which have given such person a reasonable return from his actual investment, but not in such case if the income and/or wealth of such person is such that any loss he may have suffered is reasonable. 
lt would be the responsibility of the Ministry for manufacturing industry to ensure, inter alia: (a) That no unreasonable price or restrictive condition is charged or imposed by any assisted or protected industry, (b) That control of manufacturing and processing industries in Australia is maintained by Australians, (c) That imports are increased from developing countries and from countries that have for them a marked unfavourable balance of trade with Australia. This policy would result in a number of conditions, lt would result in the more efficient and economic use of resources. Tt would result in greater mobility of resources and quicker movement to more efficient and economic employment. It would result in a reduction or prevention of unreasonable losses by individuals who cannot afford such losses as a result of any industrial change to give effect to public policy. It would result in an advance in research and in its application. lt would result in improvement in skill and capacity as a result of retraining and education. 
It would result in an increase in exports and imports, in particular with developing countries and with countries whose trade with Australia is in excess of Australia's trade with them. It would result in the maintenance and advancement of the Australian standard of living and the quality of life which would continue to be protected to the full extent of our ability from standards set in low wage and capital intensive countries where the working class is ineffective and unorganised. These standards will not become the determinants of Australian standards as long as we have the will and capacity to prevent it. 
If economic pressures ever become so great that the Australian fair and reasonable standard cannot be maintained then some government other than a Labor government can go ahead and impose the resultant conditions upon Australia. It will not be a Labor government that consents to that policy. I have faced the serious problems that are involved in the making of tariffs and in the development of secondary industry in this country. If not only the level of employment but also problems like decentralisation are to be handled satisfactorily in this country they must be handled by further development of manufacturing industry. We cannot decentralise in this country if we rely or seek to rely upon rural industry. As the years go by a smaller proportion of our people is being employed in primary industry, and that trend will continue. If we are to have anything like decentralisation, if we are to have anything like the establishment of new and better urban areas, we can have them only by the development of manufacturing industry. I suggest that we must have a policy which is far in advance of the horse and buggy type of tariff making policy which still prevails in this country and which has prevailed almost unchanged since the 1930s. 
I have set out in some considerable detail a policy which 1 think is the approach that would be made by the Australian Labor Party. I do not put it forward as a blueprint that would not be changed in certain respects. But I put it forward as an indication of a policy of a party that understands the necessity for a Parliament to exercise primary responsibility in the development of industry in the interests of those who take part in it. lt is a challenge to those who look forward to a continuation of this haphazard kind of uninformed intervention that has been the policy of Liberal-Country Party governments for 20 years - a policy of uninformed, unplanned, haphazard, after the event intervention without proper anticipation. The only alternative to this policy which comes from spokesmen on the Government side involves a return to greater and greater laissez-faire, lt involves greater and greater reliance upon the market to do whatever it will to sweep aside employment, if this is done in the name of efficiency, without any proper regard being paid to what will happen to the people who might be swept aside. The Australian Labor Party will accept neither of those 2 alternatives. I have put forward tonight a third alternative which is, in my opinion, the direction in which the development of a government's relations with manufacturing industry in this country should go. I am waiting for the Government to give us its reply. 
I move: 
That  the  House of  Representatives  :ยปet up a select committee to inquire into and report upon the future of provincial cities and regional development. 
The motion, which is deliberately a short one, would enable any committee which was set up to make fairly wide sweeping inquiries into what is one of the major problems concerning Australia as a nation at this time and which has confronted Australia .as a nation over a considerable period. The degree of inactivity which exists on this matter is startling, to say the least, 'and is possibly a reflection of self satisfaction' by those people who believe, as we heard at question time today, that the problems of rural communities and provincial areas can be solved, not by development, not by the increasing and maintenance of population of those areas, but merely by altering the Electoral Act. A select committee of this Parliament would bring down recommendations which could reverse a trend which has been growing over a number of 5'ears. 
I think that even at this early stage 1 should put .forward one proposition which will, I hope, counter the proposition put forward by the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  that the way to get a better deal in the rural areas is. to reduce the size of the rural electorates and thus give better representation in this Parliament. On the last occasion the Electoral Act was altered the allowable ratio between electorates was increased from 10 per cent to 20 per cent up or down. The census which has been taken since the application of that redistribution shows tha! the growth rate in country areas in Victoria has dropped from 3,53 per cent to 0.52 per cent. So the extra members, satisfied that their seats in Parliament are safe, have decided that . they need do nothing except at some further .date amend the Electoral Aci again. 
That is not the way to approach the problem' which confronts Australia, lt is not the way lo deal with the very serious problem which is shown to exist by growth rate .statistics for any State. .1. have here the growth statistics for Victoria, which I think fairly accurately reflect the position in the rest of Au tralia. Because it is not good to fill a speech up with statistics I will deal only with those statistics relative to Victoria. The metropolitan area of Melbourne, which is changing statistically according to census figures.- in 1933 had 57.83 per cent of the population of Victoria and nonmetropolitan areas had 42.17 per cent. At the time of the last census in June of this year, the proportion of the population in the metropolitan area of Melbourne had grown to 68.1 per cent and the proportion in non-metropolitan areas, including Geelong, had dropped to 31.9 per cent, a drop of 1 1 per cent in a period of 38 years. 
I would suggest that this is in itself adequate evidence of the decline in the activities in rural areas and the decline in the importance of provincial areas in Australia.. Since 1961 statistical divisions have been applied to the census so that the actual areas concerned are absolutely identical. "Since the 1961 census the population growth in the statistical division of Melbourne has been very close to 500.000 persons. The growth in the remainder of the State has been 50,000 persons. 10 per cent of the growth rate of Melbourne. That is the real evidence of the problem. It is a growing problem. To indicate how the problem is growing I will quote the growth rates in the non-metropolitan areas in Victoria between censuses. Between  1947  and  1957  there was a  21.8  per cent growth in the non-metropolitan areas of Victoria. In the next inter-census period the growth was  15.45  per cent. In the period between  1961  and  1966 -  this is when the rot really set in - the growth rate, in nonmetropolitan areas in Victoria was  3.53  per cent. In the period from  1966  to the last census the growth rale was  0.52  per cent, or half of  1  per cent. 
In case it may be thought that because of the changes the changing pattern of the metropolitan area resulting from the change in definition has altered the position materially, I point out that for the remainder of the State, leaving but the statistical division of Melbourne, the growth rate for the period between  1961  and  1966  was 4.61 per cent in non-metropolitan areas, and the growth rate between  1966  and 1971 was  0.94  per cent or less than  1  per cent. That is allowing for the fact that the figures for the metropolitan area of Melbourne relate only to those' areas within Melbourne's fixed boundary, which is in fact an unreal position, because the urban area of Melbourne is growing and these figures do not reflect the rural population of individual areas which are in the area of Melbourne but outside the statistical division. This is a real problem. 
We have a current problem which I hope is temporary but which most likely is not. I refer to growing unemployment in rural areas. I think this subject is to be covered in a subsequent debate, and it has no real application to the problems which are the subject of this debate. Unemployment in rural areas is a problem but it is not directly associated with the matter we are now discussing. The question which I believe must be decided, and decided quickly, is whether we are to continue with our present method of dealing with rural and provincial depopulation, that is by amending the Electoral Act, or whether we are to do something about the maintenance of population and the maintenance of population ratios in the areas outside the major capital cities? It is ridiculous to suggest that in a nation of 3 million square miles we should be doing everything pos sible to squeeze all the population into  a  couple of thousand square miles. Is the rest of the nation not fit to be lived in? Some of it is not fit to be lived in by large masses but a great deal of it is and many provincial and rural areas are better equipped than are the metropolitan areas for the growth of population and the maintenance of the way of life we like to think is Australian but which in fact is not Australian. There are many areas of Australia where facilities for population growth already exist and it is necessary to provide the people in those areas with the necessary employment opportunities and the necessary facilities of life to keep these areas as viable population centes. There is hardly a non-metropolitan area in Australia that is at this time growing at a satisfactory rate with satisfactory employment opportunities for the full cross-section of our population. 
I believe that only by Government action designed to encourage the maintenance of population in and the movement of population into provincial and regional centres can the non-metropolitan population of Autralia he maintained al a satisfactory level. The stupid and short-sighted proposition which is promoted very often by the Government of Victoria that we should have 5 million people crammed into Melbourne and leave the rest of the State hare of people to me is almost akin to genocide, it will result in a population at some future time of absolutely neurotic morons. We cannot put people in cages continually. Without any policies to develop in the capital cities an environment which is comparable with the environment which people are able to enjoy outside the capital cities we are seriously damaging human beings. By economic pressures we are forcing people who are not urban dwellers or who are not psycholigically orientated towards urban living to move out of country areas into urban living, into areas where the basic facilities are not provided. This is a secondary but a very important problem resulting from depopulation of the country areas. Not only are we forcing people to leave facilities which have been developed and destroying communities which have grown: we are also creating areas of urban population which do not have the basic facilities because the 
State governments and the municipal councils do not have the funds to provide and maintain them. 
This Government is creating areas which are not satisfactory living areas and this must have the effect of downgrading our population.I would suggest that interdepartmental committees and intergovernmental committees could study these matters. There has been one such committee studying this subject for so many years that no-one can remember the last time that it actually did anything, if it ever did anything. Apparently it has not met for about 3 years. A parliamentary committee would highlight - this is very important - the needs and the problems of non-metropolitan areas and the need for the promotion of future growth. A parliamentary committee would serve to acquaint the members of this Parliament, andI would hope it might even acquaint some of those who represent the rural electorates, with the real problems which are developing, problems which have nothing to do with how many members there are in this Parliament but which have a lot to do with what members are prepared to do for these areas. 
The rate of growth of non-metropolitan areas, asI have already said, is totally unsatisfactory. In fact, if it continues to decline at the rate which is shown in the last census we will reach a situation where not much more than 10 per cent of our population will be living outside the capital cities by the year 2000. That is the sort of problem with which we are faced and the sort of problem for which solutions must be found. There are no easy remedies and there are no cheap remedies for this problem. There are some things that the Commonwealth Government could do now. It could decentralise its own departments to a greater extent instead of transferring everyone into a centralised area. With the modern communciations and facilities now available this is quite a practicable step. 
This Government could deal with the very severe burden which telephone charges place on businesses operating outside metropolitan areas. For instance in Victoria a business operating in Melbourne has access to a very wide area and a unit charge fee for the payment of a very small extra rental. But a business operating in the city of Ballarat, Bendigo, Geelong or Mildura. which is in the electorate of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)  is faced with fantastic telephone charges. A person can make a call from Frankston to Newport or Melbourne for 4c and talk all day. A person who makes a call to the same areas from Geelong, which is a shorter distance, will be charged 20c or 25c for every 3 minutes of the conversation. I do not think that this is a realistic approach to a problem. I think that the realities of the situation are that businesses are seriously disadvantaged by this type of costing. The postal services available to businesses in country areas are less than satisfactory. 
I had reason to protest recently about the advertising of jobs with the Commonwealth Department of Works at the Avalon airfield which is just outside Geelong. The jobs were advertised in Melbourne and the applicants had to go to Melbourne to apply for jobs in Geelong. That is the psychology of the Commonwealth Department of Works. The reason why the jobs were not advertised in Geelong, according to the Department, was that ithad to give a week's notice to country newspapers to insert the advertisement but it had to give only 1 day's notice to city newspapers. That is not true. The fact is that the Commonwealth Advertising Division was not prepared to place the advertisement unless it had a week's notice, so people living in the area where the employment was needed could apply for these jobs only by going to Melbourne but by the time they got there they had all been taken. 
There is a very serious lack of facilities in country areas. There is very little reason why businesses would establish themselves in country areas at this stage. Country areas have many disadvantages and the Commonwealth adds to- those disadvantages. These areas have very few advantages other than a better environment and possibly a more stable work force. But the problems are such that economically the people in these areas are disadvantaged. The Commonwealth, no longer controls payrolltax but this is an area in which the States could take action in order to give advantage to country industries over and above metropolitan industries. In other countries there are means which are used to promote the growth of non-metropolitan industries in certain areas. These are matters which 1 think could well be taken up by this House and could well be put before a committee which could sift out the problems, such a committee should consist of people who are interested in this problem, of people who .have a voice in. this Parliament and who are able to be effective. Public servants are npt the people who should be inquiring into human problems which are the, responsibility of the Parliament. 

 I believe that a parliamentary committee should be set up to investigate this matter. It may be that the terms of reference of the committee would not necessarily be those contained in the motion. Other terms of. reference may be more, desirable but 1 believe, the principle should be established. I will be very interested at the conclusion of this debate to see whether a vote is taken. I was told a few minutes ago that the  debate will be chopped off at 12 o'clock so that some Government business can be brought on. But' if a vote is allowed,-' and I hope it will be, I will' be interested to 'see whether members of this Parliament are prepared to support the appointment of a parliamentary committee to inquire into the future of human beings in this country. We have. taken this action in regard to our wildlife. We have done. it,for fauna. It is about time that we did it lor human beings' because after all they are at least equally important. 
Kangaroos do not get counted . under the provisions of the Electoral Act. I think that human beings are just as important even though they are not always, represented in this Parliament. Another point I .would like to make is that the statistical evidence of a decline, and a rapidly, increasing .decline, in the percentage of population iti non-metropolitan areas,, is beyond question. So. that honourable members may have available to them information on the population in Victoria I seek, leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard a table which sets out the census figures .. for metropolitan . and nonmetropolitan areas. 
Order! A point of order  has  been taken. 
I think that this is a farcical situation, lt is beneath the dignity of the Committee to be discussing it at this time but I think the facts should be put before the Parliament. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  the Leader of the House  (Mr Swartz)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  were behind and slightly to the right of the Chair at between 8.5 and 8.10 last night within 10 minutes of the Opposition Party meeting adjourning. I could not say what they were discussing, but they were there and they discussed certain matters. Anyone who says they were not there was either nol in the House or is deliberately trying to mislead the Committee. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Will any proposals for a merger of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories be presented to Parliament for ratification before any agreement is signed. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Was an application received by the Australian . Advisory Committee on Research and Development in Education for financial assistance to conduct a research project into the use of  per  capita grants by registered schools in Victoria. 
If so, was the application refused through lack of funds or for other reasons. 
In view of the value such research could have in determining future fund allocation, will he examine the possibility of financing such a study from departmental funds. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has he received a request from pensioner associations asking that an extra social service payment be made during December as a Christmas payment. 
If so, what action has been taken to meet this request. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  In doing so a number of things should be said, the first of which is that it is a serious reflection on this House that a Minister of the Crown in dealing with a measure of this nature should in his second reading speech make such irrelevant and irresponsible statements as we have heard tonight. This is the second time that this has happened. Supporters of the Government repeatedly claim that it is a responsible government. It should ensure that the people charged with the responsibility of bringing legislation into this Parliament act in a manner befitting Ministers of the Crown. I do not believe that we saw such behaviour tonight. Some people would do well at times to examine both sides of the coin. I do not think any responsible person would welcome the situation which existed in Victoria a couple of weeks ago when many thousands of people were out of work. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  in typical humanitarian style, said that no members of the 23 unions involved in the dispute would be eligible for the unemployment benefit. One of the unions concerned had about 12 members involved in the dispute and about 3,000 members out of work in other States. The Minister, with a magnificent humanitarian gesture, in effect said: 'They can all starve to death as far as I am concerned. They will not get a penny because they are members of the unions'. Their crime was membership of a union. All honourable members know of the hatred the Minister has displayed for unions over many years in this Parliament. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase the unemployment benefit by $7 a week. What does that mean? The Minister cited a series of figures in comparing the unemployment benefit paid 20 or 25 years ago. The Minister did not state an exact period but 1 assumed that he was referring to 1949. He did not seem to be sure of the basis of the comparison he was making. I would like to make a comparison similar to that made by supporters of the Government when complaining about increases in wages, that is, a comparison with the average male wage. The Minister might be interested to hear a comparison of the present unemployment benefit with that of 1946. In 1946 the unemployment benefit paid to a man and his wife was 35.3 per cent of the average male wage. Taking into account the increase of $7 a week proposed by this Bil] the unemployment benefit will represent 30.7 per cent of the average male wage. If the proposed increase of $7 a week is not taken into account the unemployment benefit represents 19.6 per cent of the average male wage, a drop of nearly 80 per cent on the proportion it represented in 1946. That is not a bad yardstick to use. 
When the Minister is citing figures he might like to use the same basis of comparison for pension scales as he uses when dealing with increased wages. It is interesting that the Government uses different sets of figures for different purposes. The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  said that we must rush this Bill through the Parliament so that people unemployed will benefit. I agree, and that is why we are debating the second reading of this Bill tonight. However, it would not have been very difficult for the Government to have section 2 of the Bill drafted differently so that its provisions could take effect from 14th February, the date on which the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced that the unemployment benefit was to be increased, instead of having it drafted to operate from the date on which the Bill receives royal assent which may be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. The Government could very easily have ensured that the people who are to benefit would do so from the date of the announcement, as is the case with manufacturers for whom the investment allowance has been reintroduced. It is purely a matter of words. Even at this stage the Minister for Social Services could amend the legislation in order to make it operative from 14th February. Unfortunately, the Opposition cannot do so. Most of the argument in this debate has centred on who is responsible for the present unemployment. Quite clearly the economic policy of the Government at the time of the last Budget was to put people out of work. Every responsible body in Australia, but not Ministers of the Government, acknowledged that that would be the result of last year's Budget. Those predictions, which were also made by the Opposition, have been proved to be correct. 
If the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  is to be believed, the object of last year's Budget has been achieved. Only a few weeks ago the Treasurer said that the Budget had achieved the Government's aim of providing more flexibility for employers in their selection of labour. He might more appropriately have said 'creating a pool of unemployment'. Some people prefer nicer language, but that is what the Treasurer could have said. We will never know what he really meant. I am surprised that members of the Country Party are not demanding more than they are demanding. Apparently they are satisfied with the situation in country areas. I most certainly am not. I would much prefer a policy of productive effort towards the growth of the nation to a simple policy of expenditure. It is humiliating that men in order to feed their families are directed to dig weeds out of gutters in the streets. I do not think such a policy befits a nation such as Australia. A little more money should have been expended in developing employment opportunities in country areas, particularly permanent employment, so that people there could be employed in jobs to which their qualifications entitle them. 
The Minister for Social Services made what I thought were paranoic remarks in dealing with the situation in Victoria a couple of weeks ago. I think it is fair to point out some of the problems confronting the people involved. The Latrobe Valley in Victoria is an area where employment is last disappearing. This situation is becoming fairly general in our country areas. The Latrobe Valley was rapidly developed and was promoted by the Victorian Government as an area of rapid growth. Many people, especially migrants, went into the area with rosy hopes for the future. They paid high prices for land, built houses and settled their families. Most of those workers are now between 40 and 50 years of age. Their future means getting out of those houses which have cost them their life savings and receiving almost nothing for them. They will have to go to the Melbourne metropolitan area and pay about $25,000 for comparable housing. They are hoping to God that they can get u job in the metropolitan area, if the Government's policies change in time. Such a situation will cause unrest in any area, lt will promote the growth of communism, which is so abhorred by the Minister. When a man puts his life savings into an area he does not want to leave that area. 
What are the farmers saying about such a situation? They are not happy about it. The Government has introduced schemes in an attempt to assist the farmers. They are rather poor schemes, but they are something. Nothing is done for the working man who is thrown out of work in a country area and has to spend thousands of dollars to get a home in a capital city. The difference in cost between comparable homes in country and city areas is between $9,000 and $10,000. How can a man on about $60 a week find $9,000 or $10,000? I am sure that the Minister has never lived on S60 a week. I would be very surprised if any working man could find an extra $10,000. 
10157/72- [KJ- 3 
What is the situation which confronts a person who suddenly becomes unemployed? The first thing is that he has a drop in income of possibly from $70 a week to $29.50 if he has one child, and that is at the amended rate.  His  commitments do not drop. The amount he owes the hire purchase companies does not drop and the amount be has to pay in rent or on house repayments does not drop. The regular commitments of sending his children to school and the other amounts he has to pay do not drop. He has to clothe his children and pay their fares to school and pay his fares to the unemployment bureau in order to get a job. But his income has dropped by $40 a week. How many weeks can a man expect to live decently with a drop in income of $40 a week? The Minister's Department in its statistics pointed out just how serious this is for some people. 
The annual report of the Department of Social Services shows that 8.2 per cent of those persons who receive the unemployment benefit receive it for 6 months or more. However, in Geelong, which happens to be a substantial part of my electorate, 27 per cent of those who receive a benefit do so for 6 months or more. In Bendigo it is 21 per cent and in Hobart it is 18 per cent who spend 6 months or more living on a pittance, lt could not be described as anything more. It is humility to human dignity to ask anyone to live on this amount of money. In the Melbourne employment district the number who receive the unemployment benefit for 6 months or more is 17 per cent. This is not just a matter of a temporary relief for people. I know the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  laid great stress on the number of people who are unemployable. There are people who are unemployable but they are unemployable for a number of reasons. There are obviously some people who do not want to work but that is a very small percentage. There are people who have various types of injuries and do not qualify for sick or invalid pensions but who cannot get work because the work for which they are medically fitted is not available in the area in which they live or not available at all. People with cardiac conditions and back injuries find it extremely difficult to get employment. People in the 50 to 65 years age groups, even if they are skilled, fmd it very difficult to get employment. 
For these people unemployment benefits are their livelihood because the Commonwealth Employment Bureau cannot offer them opportunities for employment. They must live on this amount. There is io long term unemployment benefit and for the 27 per cent in the Geelong district and the 17 per cent in the Melbourne district who receive unemployment benefits it is practically a permanent income. Any person who suggests that a man with 2 children can live for a long period on $34 a week without that family suffering severe hardship and deprivation and without destruction of a man's confidence in himself and his will is a fool. This level of benefit is only a very minor contribution towards the serious hardship which people who become unemployed must suffer. It is not only the person who becomes unemployed; it is the person's family - his children. If the children happen to be of high school age there is no way in the world that the breadwinner can continue to pay for their schooling. They are forced out to work. There is no provision in the social service structure for people to be assisted with their education where that education totally depends on a pension. It is just impossible. I suggest that the Government should give serious consideration to the proposals in the amendment. I believe it is one of the most damaging things to a human being to say to a person: 'You will not be employed because no-one wants to employ you. You must use up your savings and when they have gone you must adjust your standards of living to live on an amount of about $30 a week'. In this day and age it is an impossibility, 
I want to make one other point. During this debate wage rises have been mentioned repeatedly. People who work for wages with no other form of income have only one method of protecting themselves against the future, against sickness and unemployment and all the other things which persons with a more substantia] income and with more substantial assets do not need to worry about. If unemployment becomes, as it is at the moment, a great risk in the community, people will want higher wages and greater savings. The greater savings will mean that money is taken out of the economy and it will mean that the economy slows down. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  have been complaining about this. It will mean that more people will become unemployed. But who can blame a person who, knowing that if be becomes unemployed his income will drop by $40 a week, puts money in the bank and insures against the hardship that that drop will cause. 
A substantial increase in unemployment benefits would be an insurance against a slowing down of the economy as people are frightened to spend their money because of the ramifications of possible unemployment. Do honourable members think that people in the motor car industry at the moment will buy a new car or a television set? They do not know whether they will have a job on Friday. They are looking for the pink slip. They will put their money in the bank and hope to God that they do not have to draw it out to subsidise their unemployment benefit. It would be responsible and good economic management if the Government made the unemployment benefit higher so that people had greater confidence in their capacity to survive if they became unemployed. 
Finally, I want to say that there are far more serious and deep-seated problems in the economy than the Government seems to think. Unemployment in country areas is not a temporary thing. Look at the statistics obtained in the last census. In Victoria in areas outside the metropolitan area the total growth was half of 1 per cent in 5 years. This means that young people are being forced out of the country areas and the provincial towns into the Melbourne metropolitan area in order to find employment. It would be a responsible action if this Government tried to do something about that situation. As long as I have been in the Parliament and for as long as it has been the Government, this Government has never once attempted to do anything to promote and maintain employment opportunities in non-metropolitan areas. I support the amendment because it proposes something like a humanitarian standard for those persons who are out of work as a result of the deliberate policies of this Government. I support the amendment because it is in the economic interests of this country and would provide good economic planning for the future. I sincerely hope that the Government will do more in the future for those people who are out of work than to provide temporary dole relief without any effort towards long term planning and the putting forward of concrete proposals for permanent productive employment of these people. 
I want to make only one point. The motion of dissent from your ruling rests largely on whether this is a private letter or whether it is a confidential document, and there are 2 things which should be taken into consideration by the House. Firstly, I would think that a private letter would be written by the person sending the letter. Clearly in Hansard of 22nd February 1972 it is indicated that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  does not know who wrote the letter and I will quote what he said at page 9, immediately following the quotation from the letter. The Prime Minister is reported as having said: 
That was approved of by my colleague, the Treasurer. In fact I believe he had a hand in actually drafting the letter I wrote. 
I believe', says the Prime Minister. He does not know whether the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  had a hand in drafting the letter he wrote. If he wrote the letter, he ought to know. If the Prime Minister did not write it he obviously does not know who wrote it. This quotation in itself proves beyond all reasonable doubt that this is not a private letter. It is a letter drafted for the Prime Minister by some persons unknown, distributed as widely as possible, signed by the Prime Minister and, if we are able to believe the Prime Minister, sent to  Sir Ian  McLennan. We cannot be sure whether it was sent because of the episodes of last year when the Prime Minister wrote the South African Government another private letter which apparently never reached the post box.  Mr Speaker,  the motion of dissent from your ruling is based on the fact that it was not a private letter. Unfortunately you have ruled without knowledge of the full facts, which I believe you are not entitled to know. 
At this stage I think it would be in the best interests of the House if the ruling were withdrawn and the matter of tabling the document reconsidered because the Prime Minister has clearly indicated by his statements in the House yesterday that it is not a private letter. He also clearly indicated that it was not a matter of confidence when he said it should have the widest distribution possible. If it was for distribution amongst his Cabinet colleagues I am quite sure he would have said so. But the facts are that this is a letter which the Prime Minister believes the Treasurer had a hand in drafting. In fact he does not know who drafted the letter. I do not see how it can be described as a private letter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Have noise level tests been conducted in the areas surrounding Avalon Airport;  if so,  what  were the  results  of  these  tests. 
I rise  tonight to deal with a matter which is of considerable concern to the aircraft industry in Australia and of concern to honourable members. I refer to the procrastination of the Government on decisions whether to proceed with the production of the aircraft known as Project N which has been developed by the Government Aircraft Factories. This aircraft has been developed to a stage where it is very close to achieving an airworthiness certificate, but to date no encouragement has been given by the Government to the Government Aircraft Factories in the form of tangible evidence that it intends to proceed with production of the aircraft. For some months the Government Aircraft Factories have been seeking a guarantee of orders from the Government for this aircraft. During this time the gains which were made through the outstanding design and the outstanding work which was done by the Government Aircraft Factories in developing this aircraft have been dissipated because overseas manufacturers have been in the process of producing aircraft of a similar type. 
Unless Government orders for the aircraft are placed very shortly there will be a situation where marketing of the aircraft will become impossible. Military orders provide the most obvious means for most major aircraft projects to get off the ground. It seems that this aircraft is admirably suited for close support operations for the Australian Army. I understand that the Australian Army would like to have the aircraft, if only Army personnel were permitted to fly it. I believe that to be the situation at the moment. I understand that a decision has been taken by the Royal Australian Air Force at Russell Offices in Canberra that the Air Force will take the aircraft so long as the Army will buy it and allow Air Force personnel to fly it. The Army would like to have the aircraft but, quite naturally, it wants its personnel to fly it. I do not blame the Army for that. In this way it at least would know where the aircraft was when it was wanted. 
This has developed into a critical situation. Unless orders are placed very soon - I do not mean some time in the never-never - the whole project will collapse. We may be able to attract a small military order within Australia, but the commercialisation of the venture by sales to persons additional to sales to the Australian Government will fail because delivery dates will be set back so far that it will be impossible to market the aircraft. 
At this stage I understand that the earliest delivery date would be available some time towards the end of next year. 
I shall not mention other matters relating to the aircraft industry but I rose tonight because I believe that it is critical to the future of the Australian aircraft industry that the Government gives support immediately to this aircraft. If military orders cannot be placed now, it is necessary that the Government advance finance for the commencement of a production run of this aircraft. Even if it advanced funds for  10  or  20  aircraft, which at the quoted costs would not be a great deal of money in  terms  of Australian financing, it would enable the production of the aircraft to start now and even if marketing failed the aircraft is of such a nature that it could be used usefully in Papua and New Guinea and in many parts of Australia. I do not think there is any doubt that the marketing of the aircraft will succeed provided the Australian Government shows enough confidence in it to finance the necessary production and guarantee the finance necessary to back up its commercial sale. 
I also want to refer to a matter which arose only today because it has a direct connection with the future of this aircraft. This morning in another place,  Senator Poyser  asked the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  a question relating to the aircraft known as Project N. In his reply the Minister said: 
As far as I am aware, the committee in the Department of Defence, comprising members of the Departments of the Army, Supply and Air, is still meeting to see whether there is a military need for this aircraft and whether that need is in the Air Force or the Army. A meeting, as far as I am aware, was held last Tuesday afternoon. That deals with the question as it relates to the Department of Supply. But, as Minister for Air, perhaps I should say to the Senate that the Royal Australian Air Force does not at this time have a specific requirement for an aircraft of the type of Project N, either to help in its own operations or to help in the operations of the Army which it carries out for the Army. The honourable senator will be aware that at the present time we have in operation helicopters and Caribou aircraft for direct Army support and we also have 20 DC3 aircraft still operating at various air bases. 
I am sure those aircraft will be operating for a further  20  years and they are what the Army will get when it wants aircraft. The Minister continued: 
So we really have a capability to assist the operations of the Army and also a capability to meet our own transport requirements for the present. Nevertheless, this committee is looking at where we can use Project N. But, until it establishes that there is a military need, I cannot say anything further. 
I would say that the real thing the committee is looking at is who is to fly the aircraft - the air marshals or the generals^ - and that is the critical factor. I propose now to quote from a Press statement issued tonight by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  on the same matter. It is a pity that the Minister for Defence did not take the opportunity to make the statement in the Parliament because this matter is of importance to the Parliament. In his Press statement the Minister said: 
While there is not a pressing need tor the RAAF to add an aircraft of the type of Project N to its inventory at this stage the RAAF does not provide all the aviation requirements of the Army. 
That is an interesting statement. The Minister for Air says that it does and the Minister for Defence says that it does not. I wish the Minister for Defence would say Go ahead and build the aircraft', because that is the critical factor. I seek leave of the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Peacock)  and the House to incorporate in Hansard this Press statement so that honourable members and the public will know its contents. 
It is a copy of the Minister's Press statement. 
Another part of that Press statement says that the evaluation of the aircraft is likely to be concluded towards the end of April. The aircraft has been flying for several months; it has practically achieved its airworthiness certificate. It is an aircraft that has outstanding characteristics. It can land and take off practically anywhere. It most certainly could get on and off the Melbourne Cricket Ground and I am not sure that it could not nearly land in the courtyards of Parliament House, such are the STOL characteristics of this aircraft. According to people who, I hope, would know, it is the best aircraft of its type in the world, and it is competitively priced. All it needs is for the Government of Australia to show sufficient confidence in the aircraft to enable production to commence and that involves providing the necessary funds. If the Government procrastinates any further and delays the entry into production any longer, marketing will become impossible because it will be too late to state delivery dates. The programme is already back beyond the middle of next year on delivery dates and it will get further and further back while the Government sits down and does absolutely nothing. 
I commend those people who authorised the research, design and construction of the test aircraft and I condemn those people who, in their shortsightedness, are not providing the necessary finance for the production and manufacture of the aircraft. While the Government sits and does nothing about getting into production and spending about $10m or $12m to start an adequate production run, people at the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Factory Ltd are being paid out of Government subsidies which are provided because there, is not sufficient work to keep them occupied at present. On the one hand, the Government is handing out money for nothing and, on the other hand, it is not prepared to back a project which is of outstanding quality and which would give Australia a place in aircraft production in the world and would give encouragement to the design teams which created the aircraft. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  has made some remarkable statements. In referring to an answer given by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  he held up a copy of Hansard but did not quote from it. He gave bis own version. 
That is correct - and not accurately. The Minister for Air said: 
But as Minister for Air, perhaps I should say to the Senate that the Royal Australian Air Force does not at this time have a specific requirement for an aircraft of the type of Project N, either to help in its own operations or to help in the operations of the Army which it carries out for the Army. 
That is a fairly definite statement. Later that same evening the Minister for Defence felt obliged to present a statement to the Press. I am extremely sorry that he did not feel obliged to present it to Parliament because Parliament could have been taken more into the Government's confidence about the future of this industry. The Minister said in his Press statement: 
While there was not a pressing need for the RAAF to add an aircraft of the type of Project N to its inventory at this stage the RAAF does not provide all the aviation requirements of the Army. 
That seems to contradict what the Minister has said today, but I do not want to argue that point at great length. In referring today to the future of Project N, and also in his Press release to which I have referred, the Minister has said it appears that evaluation of the project will be completed at the end of April and a decision taken then as to whether the aircraft will go into production. The aircraft has been flying for at least 3 months, and possibly longer. It appears to be an undue delay to wait until the end of April to make a decision. I understand the aircraft will receive an airworthiness certificate this month. Meanwhile the whole of the development team is sitting around twiddling its thumbs, waiting for the Government make up its mind whether to proceed with production. 
I appreciate that the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  has been doing his best to get some movement, but unless there is very rapid action the development and future sales of the aircraft will be seriously jeopardised through delays in delivery dates, lt is my understanding that if production started tomorrow deliveries could not be effected until towards the end of August next year. There is to be a delay of at least a further 2 months before orders are placed, before the necessary materials and so on can be ordered for a production run. It therefore seems that delivery will not be effected before October of next year. That seems to be an unwarranted delay on a project for aircraft which would be so readily saleable on the world markets. It is a project which so obviously is desirable for Australia's defence forces. 
I think we paid about $lm for the Pilatus aircraft which has no greater capacity than the aircraft known as Project N. I understand that the military version of the Project N aircraft will cost about $400,000. That contrasts seriously with the way in which an Australian developed aircraft with tremendous capacity is being treated. A further contrast is provided by the Fill, to which the Minister referred. The Government was able to purchase the Fill from a rough sketch. There was no waiting to see whether the aircraft had proved itself. It was bought from a sketch, nothing more or less, and not from a detailed plan. We simply bought an idea. 
In the case of Project N, an Australian aircraft designed by an Australian Government owned industry, the Government has to wait 2 months after it has received an airworthiness certificate and wait for every test to be passed before it is prepared to invest less than $10m in a production run. The amount involved is less than the cost of one Fill, and less than the increased cost of 2 Fills from the time they were ordered. We do not know yet what the final cost of them will be. Let us not have crocodile tears shed about getting the best value for our money, in view of the amount of defence expenditure in recent years that has gone to pay for the increased cost of the flying ostrich. 
The Australian aircraft industry is important to Australia's defence and it must be retained within the control of the 
Australian Government. The major share of its assets are clearly in the hands of the Australian Government. If a merger is necessary - and there is some evidence that it is- it should be on the basis of the equity of the 2 organisations involved. A 50-50 control arrangement has been generally considered. There is no doubt in the world that such an arrangement would give effective control to a private supplier. The major shareholders in such a supplier could be firms such as Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, which seem to stand in favour with the present Government. 
The future of the industry is not important only to defence. It is also important to the people who work in it. I do not think it would do any harm if the Government were to give a very firm undertaking to the people working in the industry that their rights and conditions would be protected in any merger arrangement, especially pension rights. I understand that this type of arrangement was made when the Government gave away Bell Bay to an American corporation. I think the Government could give a clear indication to those persons employed in the Government Aircraft Factories that they will not lose the rights and privileges which have accrued to them merely because the Government wants to get out from under in the aircraft industry. 
There are a number of other important matters relating to the aircraft industry. I have not been able to find out the future proposals for the Avalon section of the Government Aircraft Factories. It is said that it is in the merger, and then it is said that it is not in the merger. My present understanding is that there is a proposal for the physical facilities to be retained by the Government but leased to the new company. I suggest that that would mean that the new company would control the assets at Avalon. That may not be correct, but this Parliament has not been let in on the secret. The Minister for Supply may not have finished reading the report. He may not know what the recommendations are. 
One other important matter that should be aired is that while a private company involved is able to employ public relations people to put its point of view it has been clearly pointed out in correspondence to representatives of the Government Aircraft Factories that if they make statements about the industry in public they are liable to prosecution. This is a rather serious situation. Employees of a private company involved in a merger arrangement are allowed to protect the interests of that company but persons concerned in the government industry are threatened with prosecution under the Crimes Act if they take any part in debate on the matter. Quite obviously the public can get only a one-sided argument. Considerable costs would be involved in moving machinery and other equipment in the new industry. It seems to me there is justification at least to examine a proposal to relocate the whole of the industry at Avalon where an aerodrome facility is available. This is not available at Fisherman's Bend. An airfield is vital to the development of an aircraft industry. The present facilities at Fisherman's Bend would preclude the testing or the manufacture of aircraft of any size there. 
It seems probable that this proposal will be unacceptable because of the employment requirements of the existing work force. The work force is entitled to serious consideration. From the figures I have been able to obtain it would appear that there will be a reduction of about 10 per cent in the present work force. This is to be added to a very substantial reduction in the work force in the last 12 months. The figures I have show that the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation employed 2,550 personnel in January 1971 and 1,973 in 1972. I do not have the figures for the Government Aircraft Factories. So there has already been a drop of some 600 or nearly 25 per cent in the employment of CAC and I would imagine that GAF has suffered a very similar drop in the number of persons it employs. A further drop of 10 per cent on top of that will mean a very substantial decrease in the employment of very skilled persons in the aircraft industry. Both of these companies, and especially the Government Aircraft Factories, have proved themselves over many years to be one of the most worthwhile defence industries in Australia. It is up to the Government to show a far greater confidence in this industry, and for the expenditure of an amount of money less than that needed for the purchase of one Fill it can get Project N off the ground. 
It is time someone in the Government showed sufficient foresight and courage to stand up and say to the industry: 'You can prepare to enter production of this aircraft and commence the marketing of it'. If the Minister for Defence has not the courage to do this he should not occupy that position. The Government will buy an aircraft off the drawing board in one instance but will not buy another aircraft until months after it has proven itself. 
-I rise to speak on a matter which is of considerable concern to a very large number of people. We are all aware that some weeks ago in Victoria there was a protracted industrial dispute. We are all aware that during the course of that dispute the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  publicly stated that those persons who were members of the unions involved in the dispute would not be paid unemployment benefits. The Minister did not say that no-one would be paid unemployment benefits during that period. This appears to be the situation at the moment. It is now 3 weeks since the dispute finished and as of this morning no ruling was available from the Department of Social Services to those officers who have to process claims for unemployment benefits lodged during the period of that industrial dispute. 
The unemployment benefit in this country is pitiful enough.' But to make people wait 3 weeks before their claims can be even processed is, in my opinion, a disgraceful and unforgivable delay. I intended to raise this matter last Thursday during the debate on unemployment benefits, but in order to save time I discussed the matter with the Minister and officers of the Department. I was informed that a ruling had been made that day and that it would be in transit to the Melbourne office of the Department of Social Services that afternoon. On Monday of this week, because no ruling was available, the process of determining claims in my electorate could not be commenced. 1 sent a telegram to the Minister and I received a telegram in reply indicating that he would contact me have not heard anything from the Minister. On the last occasion when I was able to check, no ruling had been given by the Department. I think someone ought to look very seriously into this matter. For 3 weeks people have been waiting for the few dollars to which they are entitled. I think the carrying out of the Minister's statement to the full may be the reason for the delay. Most likely the Department is having extreme difficulty in drafting a ruling to fit the rather irrational and illegal statements of the Minister. 
Despite this fact, there are many thousands of people who are not members of the unions involved in the dispute who have an entitlement and who were stood down. These people are entitled to collect the unemployment benefits due to them and they should not be forced to wait 3 or 4 weeks to receive them. I have raised this matter in the House because I think honourable members should be aware of the excessive delay and the failures of a Minister of this Government to carry out his responsibilities to ensure that at the earliest possible time those amounts of money owing to people as unemployment benefits are paid to them. This continuing delay is causing serious hardship to some people. I hope that some action will be taken in the immediate future to correct the situation. 
The Prime Minister has indicated a procedure for question time which is completely new to this House and which is in no way in conformity with the Standing Orders, namely, that certain honourable members will be able to ask questions on specific subjects only. I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  to consult with the Prime Minister on this matter and also to draw to the Prime Minister's attention that any such decision should be made by the  Speaker  of the House and not by any Minister or any other honourable member in the House. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in the Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the residents of the Division of the Australian Capital Territory respectfully showeth: 
That they have no objection to the Aboriginal Embassy being on the lawns outside Parliament House. 
That they believe that the Aborigine, in common with all other Australian citizens, have a right to assemble in any peaceful manner of their own choice. 
And that they would object to any law that would make their being there illegal. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government does not enact any law that would detract from or binder the rights of the Aborigines to be there. 
And further that the Government instructs its officers not to interfere with the Aborigines who are peacefully assembled outside Parliament House. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1  give notice that at the next sitting I will move: 
That this House is of the opinion that - 
No action should be taken that would alter the present structure of Government Aircraft Factories unless the proposed action is ratified in advance by the Parliament, and 
An immediate assurance should be given to employees in the aircraft industry employed at Government Aircraft Factories that they will retain their present rights and conditions of employment if the structure of the industry is changed. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
MINISTER FOR EDUCATION AND SCIENCE 
Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 20th December 1971 
Dear  Mr Whitlam, 
On 8th December, I undertook orally in response to a question which you put to me, to provide you wilh certain, information concerning the number of schools which fall within the scope of the Commonwea'th Science Facilities and Secondary Schools Libraries Programmes. You had also asked me what are the annual administrative costs of the Secondary Schools Libraries Committee and the Commonwealth Advisory Committee on the Standards for Science Facilities in Independent Secondary Schools. 
Bearing in mind that new schools are being opened and some existing schools closed or are amalgamating, the approximate number of secondary schools in the 6 States which fall within the ambit of the two Programmes concerned is 2,283, of which 1,523 are government schools and some 760 are non-government schools. 
Turning to the administrative costs of each of the 2 Committees, in 1970-71 these totalled for the Libraries Committee, S27.354.99 and for the Science Facilities Committee, $20,993.97. The figures include such items as travel costs, silting and consultation fees and the Chairmen's annual emoluments. Hie Libraries Committee is somewhat larger in number than the Science Facilities Committee and the former Committee makes use of occasional sub-committees to a greater extent than does the latter group, particularly in these initial stages of a major programme. It is expected that expenditure of much the same order will be incurred in future years, with a possible falling off in the Libraries Committee expenditure as the Programme continues. 
I trust that this information answers the particular points you have raised. 
Yours sincerely, 
MALCOLM FRASER 

 Mr G. Whitlam, Q.C.,  M.P. Leader of the Opposition, Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.T. 2600. 
There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 5.55 to 8 p.m. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia showeth: 
That the Government's action in refusing to allow  Mr Ijaz  Hussain to remain in Australia is a denial of human rights and contrary to the best interests of the Australian people. 
Your Petitioners therefore most humbly pray that the House of Representatives will take steps to have the deportation order against  Mr Hussain  withdrawn and to allow him to remain in Australia. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition  received and read. 
Pollution of the Sea 
Is the Minister for Trade and Industry aware of a number of statements recently made expressing concern for the future of the textile industries in Australia because of alleged dumping of overseas goods on the Australian market? Is the Minister also aware that similar concern is felt by carpet manufacturers because of alleged dumping? Is the Minister able to inform the House whether there is any substance in these complaints and whether it is true as has been reported that there is a danger of certain sections of the textile industries collapsing altogether? 
I rise to support the amendment. I believe the amendment sets out appropriately what should be done by the Commonwealth in the field of education. It is time that we had some consideration of what is needed in our education system and some guidelines laid down by which we can examine the worth of moneys expended on education. We appear at the moment to have a completely piecemeal approach. Every now and again the Commonwealth decides, sometimes for educational reasons, sometimes for political reasons, that certain sums of money should be expended on education. The basic Commonwealth involvement in education started with the secondary school libraries scheme, which resulted from a completely political decision which had no relevance to the educational value of this scheme. It was necessary for the 1963 election. 
Libraries are quite obviously welcomed by those schools that get them. There is no question of that. But I wonder why no-one has seen fit to examine the need to provide libraries for those children who attend primary schools. 1 think it is utterly ridiculous to offer children maximum availability to good class literature at a secondary school if those children have not had the same opportunities in primary school and in their pre-school education, which in most cases does not even exist. It is all right for those children who are lucky enough to come from families which have available to them a substantial body of literature and in which the parents have a substantial body of learning. It is all right for those children who are fortunate enough to go to schools, both state and non-state, which have adequate facilities in this area, but unfortunately the schools which are most likely not to have adequate facilities are those schools attended by children whose parents are most likely not to have had an adequate basis of literary knowledge and an adequate supply of the educational literature which it is desirable that young people have available in their homes, with the end result that those children who start off culturally under-privileged arrive at secondary school, in many cases, without having had the opportunity to make any great progress in their cultural development. They have passed through primary school and they embark on the most important part of their future activities in a secondary school without the necessary basis for a successful academic career. 
It is not a matter of whether the child has capacity; it is a matter of whether the child has opportunity. A child from a culturally under-privileged family has less starting opportunity than have normal children and therefore requires greater encouragement. I believe that this is the area of need. There is a need for those children who do not get a head start, as it is commonly termed in the United States, to be given the additional facilities which are necessary to assist them to overcome the gap that separates them from more fortunate children at their starting-out point. 1 believe that it is placing the cart before the horse to provide secondary school libraries without giving serious consideration to the position of primary schools and, even more importantly in areas in which the basic educational standards of parents is low - these areas are fairly well known to all of us - without taking the necessary action to provide a satisfactory level of pre-school education, which can be vital to a young child starting out. 
It is not so long ago that members of this Parliament were circularised with a letter from certain teachers at a school in Fitzroy. The teachers were concerned that, being of a middle class background, they were completely unable to communicate with the children in the schools in that area, whose class background, whose cultural background, whose ambitions and the ambitions given to them by their parents, were totally different. No area of communication was available to them. These children for that reason were serving their time out in school rather than obtaining an education. Some children were obviously aware of the benefits of education and were seeking to gain the maximum possible benefit out of a poor situation, but they were hampered by the general attitude which was adopted to school work. 
It is all very well to say that the needs of all schools are the same. The Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  by allocating equal amounts of money to all schools, is saying that all schools have equal needs. This is just not true. There are areas in which schools require far greater sums of money than do other schools, if they are to reach a decent level of educational achievement. 
Basically I want to talk about the State system, because it appears that no speakers on the Government side find it important enough to speak about. If we read their speeches without reading the names of the Bills which are mentioned at the beginning of most speeches, we would be hard pressed to know that there was such a thing as a government school. Looking at government schools, we find that the Bell Park Technical School in Geelong, which is now acquiring permanent accommodation, is in its fifth or sixth year of operation. The children at that school spent the first 4 years of their secondary education in portable classrooms, with not one permanent building in the place, with no sewerage and with nothing except mud on the ground in the winter. Is anyone naive enough to suggest that an adequate education can be provided by teachers, no matter how dedicated or how capable, under those circumstances? It is plainly impossible. To suggest that a technical education can be obtained under those circumstances is the height of stupidity. These children were going to a government school. Apparently they are not quite so important as those who might go to another type of school. In many cases school libraries and science blocks are allocated to a lesser standard in the State school systems for the numbers of children attending than are available to comparable secondary schools in the same area. The allocations of money shown give a good indication of this aspect which I think is extremely serious. 
Another area which should be examined carefully relates to the problem which confronts children of parents who are economically underprivileged. Large numbers of people in our community do not get the mythical average wage. Large numbers of people do not get even $50 a week. These parents have to send their children, under the same conditions, to government schools. They have to meet the costs associated with sending their children to secondary schools, but it is not possible for them to do so. Poverty begets poverty because in many cases such children cannot continue their education for economic reasons. This is especially so of children of invalid pensioners and other recipients of social services. They become the poor people of the school. The cruellest people in the world are children, as we all know. It is for this reason that these children become second class citizens within their own school population and it does not matter how much teachers or others try to help them. They have far greater difficulties in obtaining an adequate level of education than do normal children. No area of assistance is available to their parents or themselves to provide them with the wherewithal to complete their education, and the older they get the greater the problem becomes because it is rare for parents - especially invalid pensioners and this type of parent - to increase their incomes as they get older. 
So we have a situation where a child of 16, 17 or 18 years who is starting to become a very expensive luxury for any family is trying to cope with an adolescent life with the normal costs of living at that age and obtaining an education on a basic income available to his family of something less than $40 a week and, quite often, something substantially less than $30 a week. Most honourable members could not comprehend such a situation. This is an area where the Commonwealth Government should seriously examine the position. lt should look into the problems which are faced by people who receive social service benefits from the Commonwealth, because their children are just as entitled to the so-called free education which is supposedly available as is any other group of children in the community, but the Government chooses to pass sentence on them. Because their parents are not able to earn an adequate income these children arc sentenced to a lesser existence than other children. 1 want to deal with one or two other matters but I am concerned that little is done for the rehabilitation of older schools for which these capital grants were supposedly designed. I was under the impression that the purpose was to assist the States in building programmes designed to rehabilitate older schools, especially those in the inner areas, but I have found that in Victoria the funds have been allocated for jobs which already had been indicated in this year's building programme before these grants were announced. I do not know whether the States had prior knowledge of this assistance but it would seem that the money is not to be used to rebuild older schools to better standards to cope with modern needs as this additional money is being spent on new classrooms in new schools. The parents of children attending older schools, and the children themselves, have far greater problems than do those children who are fortunate enough to go to a newly completed school. Modern design has its advantages, even though I understand studies have shown that many children in the older schools are more aware of and thankful for their conditions than are some of the children in the newer areas. The facts of the matter are that many of the schools in the capital cities are completely unsuited for modern education and need replacing, but while the present system remains and while priorities and expenditures are for new buildings the backlog which obviously exists will continue and these schools will still be used and their educational facilities will remain substandard because of continued use. The recreational facilities in many of these schools are so close to being non-existent that it is not funny. 1 find it interesting that it should be suggested that a schools commission should not be esablished to examine the needs of pre-schools, primary schools and secondary schools because it would result in some form of centralisation. I think it is more likely to create a form of decentralisation than is the present method. It is difficult to understand the Government's reluctance to have a public examination of the needs of these schools because there is no such reluctance in respect of the field of university education. I find it difficult to see the basic philosophical or political differences between university and tertiary institutions. The institutes of technology and the colleges of advanced education have been easily absorbed into the Commonwealth scheme of things but the Commonwealth apparently feels that there is some tremendous sin involved in taking the same sort of initiatives with regard to secondary schools. 
I find it hard to understand the difference, but 1 think it might be of value to the House to note what one Liberal Party member thinks about how education could be improved in Australia. At a recent meeting in Geelong a Liberal member of Parliament was called upon to put his Party's policy on education. He started off by saying that in view of the fact that his Party had no firm policies on education he felt free to say what he liked. He indicated to the parents that the only way in which adequate educational facilities could be provided for their children would be for the Government to stop contributing towards their education and for the parents themselves to meet the cost. He felt that this would involve the parents more. The fact that they could not afford to pay did not matter. He contended it would involve the parents more and make them more receptive to the educational needs of their children. 
He did, however, suggest some means by which the parents could pay. I am sure these will be of interest to the House because they show how far out of touch some people are with reality. He suggested that instead of the parents buying packages of Weeties they could go to a bulk store and buy bulk quantities of Weeties. I am sure that this suggestion would please the packagers of Weeties. He said that the same could be done with jam, butter and various other commodities. With the money saved the parents could pay for the education of their children instead of the Government doing it for them. This was the argument put forward seriously by a member of Parliament - not of this Parliament, incidentally - as a policy to improve educational standards. Having listened to this debate and having heard Government supporter after Government supporter putting forward their policies in respect of the government school system, which has to accept children whether it likes it or not and has to provide an education for children whether it likes it or not, I think that the philosophy of not assisting government education is rife among the Government Parties at the moment. Their only concern is to assist the private school system. It is obvious that they have no interest whatsoever in providing an adequate education for those children whose parents cannot afford to meet the cost, for those children who are unfortunate enough to be born underprivileged. I believe the amendment proposed by the Opposition should be supported for the very good reason that it is well past the time that a serious study should have been undertaken on the educational needs of children, and an attempt made to meet those needs. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representativesin Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on December 10 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our peoplelive in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person -lan guishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, . the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate  -  30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprenehsive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Barnes)  has raised an important matter. This clause provides that the Minister must give permission for a person who is not an Australian citizen to become a member of the service. A former Minister for Territories rather facetiously referred a few moments ago to mass Asian migration, but it is a fact that in most of the major independent school systems in Australia there is a very substantial teaching force of Indian and Pakistani people who have entered this country under the present Government. They may wish to transfer to the Commonwealth Teaching Service. Therefore, they would come within the provisions of this Bill. It is all right for these people to get down in the gutter and crawl in the muck in their politics, but the facts of the matter are that most of the senior independent schools in Australia at present have coloured teachers and nonBritish teachers on their teaching staffs. The question which we are posing is whether these people, who are teaching in very senior and well thought of schools according to the Minister, should be allowed to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service if the Commissioner considers that their qualifications are sufficient and without the Minister having the right of a political veto. That is exactly what we are writing into the Bill - a political veto. 
The situation is not good in many respects. People who come to Australia and who propose to become permanent residents of this country cannot get naturalised until they have been here for 3 years. Under the provisions presently in the Bill, these people will not be able to join the Commonwealth Teaching Service unless the Minister approves. I do not know of any person who would be capable of going through the physical requirements of examining carefully every application and giving approval. The Minister will act on the recommendations of the Commissioner or his Department, and I do not see why he should not give the responsibility for approving the application to the person who will make the recommendation. 
The other point about this matter is that because these teachers are not British subjects they will be denied a number of rights which cannot be backdated to the time of their joining the service. Under the Victorian system non-British subjects cannot join the State Superannuation Fund. So even though they may work for 30 years after they have become naturalised, they lose their rights for the first 3 years of their service. This may or may not be a good provision. But the facts of the matter are that approximately one in seven people living in Australia today are not Australian citizens. They were born in countries outside Australia. We ought to recognise this fact. We are paying a lot of money to bring these people to Australia. When the Minister stands up and talks about coloured migration and that sort of thing he is talking utter rubbish. This Government has trebled the number of coloured migrants coming into this country in the last 5 years. Let the Minister at least talk honestly. 
I rise to deal with a completely different topic but 1 just wonder at the indignation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  at the charge made by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  when it- has been clearly established on a previous occasion that the Australian Government was involved in not dissimilar activities with regard to the Japanese Embassy. I rise to bring before the House a matter which I think is of serious concern and which I hope that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  will clear up in this House. He has made statements outside the House. Last night in another place the matter was debated, but the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  did not give any, real answers to the questions, even though he had consulted the Minister. So I hope that the Minister in this instance will give a clear indication of the position. 
Persons who were stood down as a result of the State Electricity Commission dispute in Victoria and who applied for unemployment benefit, are currently receiving 2 types of letters. The first type merely points out that the circumstances of their unemployment render them ineligible for unemployment benefit. I understand that on querying this letter they are told that as they had a job to go back to they did not qualify. This ruling appears to be directed to those people who were not members or who were not eligible to be members of unions, and appears to be a convenient way of denying them the unemployment benefit. These letters are all dated 11th 
March. It must have been an extremely busy day because it was a Saturday. The other letters are written in this vein: 
To determine your eligibility for unemployment benefits under the Social Services Act in respect of the claim you lodged during the recent Victorian power dispute, it will be necessary to know the name of the trade union or association (if any) to which you belong. Would you, therefore, please answer the questions listed below and return this form as soon as possible? An addressed envelope which does not require a postage stamp is enclosed for this purpose. 
Yours faithfully, A. R. KOPP Director 
The questions are: 
Were you a member of a trade union or association on 2 February 1972? 
If so, state which. 
There is a space for signature and date. In reply to a telegram from the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  - I also sent a telegram but I did not receive a reply - the Minister said: 
In accordance with the policy which was laid down by the then Prime Minister, the AttorneyGeneral, and the Minister for Social Services in April 1947, applicants for unemployment benefit who are members of a union that sponsors or supports an industrial dispute are not entitled to unemployment benefit-' 
I suggest that what was said by somebody in 1947 is rather immaterial. If the Minister wants other quotesI shall quote what was said in 1949 by the then Minister for Labour and National Service in reply to a question. I shall read the question so that there can be no ambiguity about the matter. It states: 

 Mr CONELAN On Tuesday last I asked the Minister for Labour and National Service whether the Government had given consideration to allowing members of unions who were on strike on the coal-fields to register for unemployment benefit. What is the present position in that respect? How many persons registered for unemployment benefit in Queensland during last week? 

 Mr HOLLOWAY ; Persons who are members of any union represented on the Combined Mining Unions Council and are employed in the mining industry are not eligible to receive unemployment benefit in respect of the period of the strike. 
That is a different proposition from the one which is at present before us. It clearly refers to persons who are employed in the mining industry. The people I am talking about are employed in many industries other than the power generating industry. In many cases they are employed hundreds of miles from any area where power is generated. Irrespective of that ruling, which I think I would contest, I suggest that the wording of the Act could be stretched to cover members of unions who are employed in an industry in which there is a dispute. The wording of the Act is this: 
It is a pity that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  did not in fairness to Qantas indicate that much of its difficulty has been caused by the trading of airline routes for increased beef quotas. This is pretty common knowledge. However, this is i.ot the matter about which I rose to speak. Fairly recently there has been a change of direction within the Department of Social Services relative to the payment of the unemployment benefit to persons over 18 years of age. My understanding is that persons who live in country areas now have to indicate that they are prepared to shift to the capital cities if employment is available there in order to be eligible for the unemployment benefit. I understand that this is not a ministerial direction but is a direction of the Director-General of Social Services; it is not a policy decision. I wish to take it up with the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  because it is a serious matter when young people arc compelled 'o leave their homes and to live in capital cities when their whole social life and the structure of their life has been built up in country or provincial areas. 
To compel people te move to the cities is contrary to the best interests of Australia's development and can only tend to worsen the situation where almost the total growth of the nation's population is taking place in the capital cities of 2 States. In the 5-year period covered by the last census in Victoria the total growth of the area outside the Melbourne metropolitan area was .052 per cent, or less than half of one per cent, which is considerably below what would be expected to be the normal, natural increase in population without taking migration into consideration. It seems to me that to compel people to leave country areas and to shift to capital cities at a time when they are about to settle down is of doubtful value. It breaks up homes and forces young people out of their homes. This is more so in the case of young girls who are forced to establish homes at a time when most likely they would be far better off living in their parents' home. In many cases they are exposed to risks that they would not normally run. I ask the Minister to have a look at this situation and see whether this direction can be reversed. I think it is very unfair to these people to tell them that they must pack up their goods and chattels and live in the capital cities whether they like it or not or else sponge on their parents during those periods when they cannot get work. That is almost what amounts to. 1 do not want to take up much time at this stage because there are other honourable members who wish to speak. 1 ask the Minister whether he will look at this matter together with other matters which were raised in the House last night. 
I have raised this matter in the hope that the Minister will reconsider the position on this point. It is of some consequence and I think it is rather important to many families living in non-metropolitan areas. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Services, upon notice: 
Why is there an excessive delay in determining claims for unemployment benefits lodged up to 5 weeks ago during the State Electricity Commission of Victoria dispute. 
Is this excessive delay causing many thousands of persons who are eligible to receive unemployment benefits to be subjected to serious hardship. 
Will he issue instructions immediately for outstanding claims to be dealt with. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Which Members of (a) the Australian Parliament, (b) the United States Congress and (c) other Parliaments have been permitted to inspect United States defence bases in Australia. 
What was the status of each person and what is the present status of each. 
Which base was visited and what restrictions were imposed in each case. 
In this debate on the defence statement which was made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  some weeks ago we have heard some rather remarkable speeches. I do not think any speech could be classified as more remarkable than the one made by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  prior to dinner. I think one could sum up what he said by saying that he is advocating that, if we ban all sex in Australia, then our defence forces will be all right. That is the type of line of argument which he took. He agreed that the moral fibre of the nation is not such as would enable us to defend ourselves properly. The type of morality which the Minister suggested means that, had he been a Minister in the British Parliament at the time of the battle of Trafalgar, Lord Nelson would not have been in the Navy; he would have been thrown out by the Minister on moral grounds. I do not think I have ever heard such a lot of rot spoken in the national Parliament by a person who purports to be a Minister in charge of a defence portfolio as we heard earlier this evening. The Minister attacked young people in the community. He attacked the churches. He attacked everyone except the present Government. 
Well, what would one mention about the Navy, to be honest? That is precisely the point I am making. He attacked everyone except the present Government which has been responsible for the defence policy of this nation for 23 years. Any lack of defence preparedness at this stage and any doubt as to the capacity of Australia to defend herself within its reasonable capabilities can only be landed at the door of the Government. It is just idle chatter for a Minister to stand up and suggest that the Australian Labor Party, the university students or someone else in the community is responsible for a lack of defence preparedness. The Government's policies are responsible for such defence as there is and it is Government political decisions which have in fact brought us to a situation where the Australian armed forces, especially the Australian Army, are not highly thought of in the community because we have to compel people to join them. The Government decided as a matter of policy that it would compel people to serve in our armed forces rather than attract them to our armed forces. I suggest that the armed forces should be an attractive career. They always have been in the past. The decision to conscript people into the Australian Army - a decision which was said to be wrong by the then Minister for the Army 3 weeks before it was made - has as much to do with the low morale and low standing of the Australian defence forces as has any other policy decision ever made by a government in Australia. 
I want to talk about defence at a basic level. We hear talk about the importance of stationing Australian troops in Singapore. There are no Australian troops in Malaysia. We heard the Minister for the Navy say that it was the presence of Australian troops in Indonesia which saved that country from a communist takeover. But there have, never been any Australian troops in Indonesia. I suppose that sort of error is to be expected from a Government which only 6 years ago was telling us to expect a Chinese, invasion. It is useless and idle to suggest that a defence policy can be based on having 600 or 700 troops 2,000 or 3,000 miles away in an area where we are not capable of providing the necessary support if perchance they happen to be involved in some military action, which is highly unlikely. It is idle, to suggest, as the Government has suggested, that we are safe if we have an Army of 40,000, including conscripts, but the country is in diabolical trouble if it has an Army of volunteers and professional soldiers numbering 36,000. 1 suggest that the additional 4,000 are almost totally taken up with trainees learning to be soldiers and people waiting to be discharged from the Army after their 18 months service. 
I do not know exactly what is the advantage of men who have been trained. 
The ex-Prime Minister is an ex-Minister for Defence. He was sacked by your Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  He was sacked because he was not considered good enough to be a Minister. So do not go on with idle chatter about the great gods of the present who were not good enough to lead your Party when they had the job. 
Let us get down to the real truth. The facts of the matter are that in basic defence planning this Government does nothing except talk. I suggest that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  should have, a look at what the Government is doing about the aircraft industry which is a vital arm of defence. It is an arm of defence which would be critical in any situation in which Australia had to defend herself, because we could not send aircraft to France, Britain or the United States to have them serviced. They would have to be serviced in Australia. In the last 3 days 22 tradesmen with up to 20 years experience in the Australian armed forces have been dismissed by this Government which yaps and yaps about defence preparedness but sacks the people who would make the defence of this country possible. That is the sort of operation we are talking about. It is the type, of operation in defence that we had in 1953 when the then Prime Minister was running around the country saying that we had 3 years to prepare for war, but then he reduced the expenditure on defence in the Budget of that year. 
That is the sort of idle chatter that comes from honourable members opposite. I suggest that before they start to hold up their gods they should remember what the former Prime Minister said about the possibilities of Australia having to defend herself. He said that there was no threat to Australia in the foreseeable future. 1 also suggest that honourable members opposite might remember why conscription was brought in. They might also remember why Australia decided to order that wonderful defence weapon - the Fill - which decision has been used to defend this Government against the need to do anything for 10 years. But these aircraft were purchased to defend Australia against Indonesia. That Ls what they were purchased for. The Minister for the Navy cried tears of blood about Indonesia, but he was a member of the Government parties at the time the Government purchased these aircraft to fight Indonesia. He does not talk about that now. 
Is it? I thought it was still a couple of thousand islands to the north of us. 
Sukarno was a Communist, was he? The Minister for the Navy has now- 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many employees have been found to be in breach of enforceable provisions of Federal awards in each of the last 5 years. 
How many prosecutions have been initiated in respect of these breaches. 
I seek leave to make a short statement on the same subject. 
Well, I will raise it on the grievance debate and I hope the Minister enters the debate and answers his own false statement. 
I wish to raise 2 matters during this grievance debate. The first matter has been before this House for some time and was the subject of some debate after question time today. It relates to the payment of unemployment benefit to persons who were stood down during the recent power strike in Victoria. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  on Tuesday of this week read into Hansard extracts from a Cabinet minute which was prepared in 1947. He also tabled in the House a letter by the then Minister for Social Services,  Senator McKenna,  which was written in 1948. I note with some interest that he did not refer in any way to the answer given to a question in this House in 1949 by the then Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Holloway,  who said that the decision of the Labor Government applied to persons who were members of the unions in dispute working in the industry of the dispute. That is a different interpretation from the one which the Minister has given to this House. I also note that the Minister, having read this statement, then claimed that the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  especially should apologise for describing the Minister's action as vindictive. The basis of the Minister's action is irrelevant. The facts of the matter are that people who were in no way directly involved in this dispute and who had no say in its continuation or settlement have been deprived of unemployment benefits on what I claim to be a totally illegal basis. I consider the Government has acted contrary to the Social Services Act and is depending on the cost of litigation, and the amounts of money that would accrue to individuals in order to defend its action. 
I will read the relevant section of the Social Services Act so that no-one can be in any doubt about what it states. The section states that a person is entitled to unemployment benefits provided he: 
Is unemployed and that his unemployment - 
The word is 'his' -  is not due to his being a direct participant in a strike: 
In 2 places in the sentence the word 'his' is used. It is singular and not plural. The Minister's reasons and the reasons set out in the paper presented by the Minister both apply to a person's organisation being involved in a strike and that being a disqualification. I suggest that by no stretch of the imagination can that interpretation be applied to the passage I have just read. I ask the Minister and the Government to show that they have the conviction of their words and offer to finance a test case before the High Court on the meaning of the section so that this matter can be cleared up once and for all. That is the only valid way. 
The Minister has said that the original direction was drawn up by  Dr Evatt.  That may or may not be true - I do not challenge it - but what I do suggest is that  Dr Evatt  was not a judge of the High Court. He was a Minister of the Crown and therefore at the time was quite obviously, as the Minister is now and as is any person involved in the administration of the Act, not an impartial party in drawing up this direction. I suggest that such a direction should not be allowed to stand unchallenged. As far as individuals are concerned it will remain unchallenged because very few people who can qualify to draw unemployment benefits would be able to afford to finance themselves to a High Court challenge of the legislation merely to recover a few dollars. The chance of winning or losing is one of those things which is highly legal. I ask the Minister if he will consult with the Government on this matter. I know of a person who is prepared to make a test case. This person's application for benefits has been rejected although he was in no way involved, had no knowledge or gave any support to the strike. I do not know whether the people about whom I am talking supported privately the people involved in the strike. But these people gave no public support. They were not involved in direct participation and therefore the strike provision of the Act does not apply. Yet, they have been denied unemployment benefits. I believe that they are being denied their rights to test the validity of the direction of the Department because of the financial penalties which would accrue if this matter were taken to litigation. 1 do not want to go into asides of this matter. I do not believe that the question of financing strikes is involved^. 1 would agree with the Minister that if train drivers went on strike - and 1 was a train driver - and other railway employees were stood down there would be a valid case for not granting them unemployment benefits. This is what the Minister described as a key man strike because if we take the drivers off the trains the trains cannot run. But I think we have a different situation where people in entirely different industries have been denied unemployment benefits although they are members of entirely different industries and in some cases are members of a union which was very marginally involved in the dispute and played no key role in the manufacture of power. If all unions had gone on strike in the La Trobe Valley then there would have been a case for denying these people unemployment benefits. I believe that the only way in which this matter can be settled is for a test case to be taken to the High Court. The Minister himself admits that from his reading of the Act he cannot understand the legal jargon either, and God help anyone who can. But 1 think that this is probably the only way in which a reasonable settlement of this matter can be arrived at. I ask the Minister to give serious consideration to that fact. 
I want to raise one other matter quite quickly. I refer to the retrenchments in the Australian aircraft industry. Although I raised this matter last night I want to raise it again because I think it is critical. At the moment the industry is in a state of flux. Persons working in the industry do not know where they stand. There has been an announcement at Government level that proposals are being studied for a merger. The Government at this stage has not announced that those persons who are employed by it in the Government Aircraft Factories will have their accrued rights protected - and this is a very important factor - in any merger. It may be that in future these rights will be protected, but at the moment no such announcement has been made. I ask the Government, as I have asked it in the past, to make that sort of announcement so that people who may be affected by a merger can have peace of mind from the knowledge that they will not lose their accrued employment rights. 
Also I would suggest, as I have in the past, that this industry is critical to any possible defence of Australia. If the Government is serious about defence it should recognise that it takes a lot longer to train skilled personnel to maintain, service and construct modern aircraft than it takes to train a soldier, sailor or airman. It is vital to our defence capacity that the personnel trained in this field be retained in the industry. Once they leave the industry they are lost forever. They will not risk their futures by returning to an industry which does not ensure a guaranteed future employment rob for them. They seek other employment which often does not require the high standard of skills which they have developed. Once they leave the industry they are a loss to the nation. The training which they have undertaken is lost to the nation. I believe that this is a critical factor. 
If any serious consideration to defence is to be given by the Government it must recognise that this industry must be maintained and that those persons who are skilled in this type of work must be retained. At the Government Aircraft Factories at Avalon 40 electrical tradesmen - admittedly this is a small number - and 10 mechanical tradesmen were given notice last week. These people are skilled tradesmen and some have had experience of up to 27 years in the aircraft industry as members of the Royal Australian Air Force and employees of the Government Aircraft Factories. Their loss cannot be recouped overnight. Their skills will be totally lost to the industry. I believe that the parallel of this would be to dismiss the ratings and all of the skilled staff of HMAS Melbourne' and say: 'Go get another job until we want you again'. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It was interesting, listening to the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  to note the approval of his speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  who has been running around the country talking about not talking about personalities but policy. If the Treasurer cares to read Hansard tomorrow he will see that the speech of the Minister for Shipping and Transport was a direct attack on personality and this apparently meets with the Treasurer's approval. I rise to raise only one or two matters. In his statement the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  indicates that the reference to the Tariff Board is expected to cover some 1,000 items of the tariff and that a report is to be requested by the end of 1972, which is some 8 months away, on 1,000 items. It is a pity that the Minister did not include in his statement a listing of the 1,000 items which are to be reported on by the end of this year. 
Any proposal to reduce or adjust tariffs can have long term and very substantial effects on many areas of industry and the capacity of those areas to survive. It can also have fairly dramatic effects on certain provincial areas which are largely one industry centres. I would have liked to have seen a listing of the items on which it is proposed a report will be provided by the end of this year. It is very easy to get up and talk in an academic manner about efficient production and about displaced employees being diverted into more efficient channels of production. But one of the things which is not generally appre ciated is that this just does not happen in practice. I cite as one. instance the textile industry. In the provincial towns where textile mills mostly operate they are the only substantial employers of female labour. When employment opportunities in that industry are reduced, largely through dumping practices and not through the inefficiency of the operators, there are no alternative areas of employment. The alternative is unemployment benefits and I do not think that is an efficient use of resources. So I am concerned with the fairly substantial areas of investigation in what apparently will be a very quick review. These areas are not set out in the Minister's statement so that we might know exactly what industries are likely to be affected. As I said before, this is very important to employment, especially in non-metropolitan areas where alternatives do not necessarily exist. 
It is also false to assume that because an industry's end costs are greater than the imported costs, it is necessarily less efficient than the industry producing the goods which are imported into this country. It is also false to assume that if we close the Australian industry by removing or reducing the tariff, the goods we import will be cheaper. There is at least some evidence to suggest that where an Australian industry has been forced out of the market the importer takes the opportunity of free access to the market immediately to increase his charges, especially with international cartels, to cover the lower cost which he is forced to place on his goods on other markets. Farmers in Australia are aware of this situation in relation to urea. They really did not get a benefit from the reduction of the tariff. All that happened was that the importers made more money out of the goods which they brought into Australia and sold on the Australian market. I am concerned that the Minister has said that this is part of the Government's anti-inflation programme because the connotation of the Government's anti-inflation programme is the. placing of some more people out of work. That is the only thing the Government has done so far to combat inflation. In the 8 months since the last Budget something like 3.6 million man days have been lost through additional unemployment created by Government policy and that figure does not take into account the numbers who were unemployed in the same month the previous year. It is only the additional number. 
It would appear that if the Government intends to adjust tariffs as an antiinflationary measure in a manner which will force Australians out of work - and that must be the result of replacing existing manufactures with imported goods - it will be adding to the loss of production and reduced capacity of Australian industry and will add greatly to the already too low increase in job opportunities which exist in the Australian economy today. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has drawn attention to the very low number of new jobs which have been created in each of the last 2 years. The honourable member said that there were 66,000 in one financial year and only 39,000 in the last 12 months period. This is not sufficient to absorb the natural increase in our population. If by this action, which is supposedly to curtail inflation, the Government further reduces job opportunities, especially in nonmetropolitan areas, we will have in Australia cheaper goods on the market, but with ever increasing expenditures on operations such as the rural employment scheme, under which we create employment by the expenditure of taxpayers funds, or increased payments of unemployment benefit to people in order that we may import cheaper goods. There seems to be something false about that sort of economics. 
An efficient Australian industry - I believe that efficiency should be encouraged - can well have a cost structure which is far outside the scope of some of its competitors. Wages are cheaper in other countries, volumes of production are different and the availability of finance at reasonable rates of interest is quite often an entirely different matter. I can refer to Australian industries which have been completely re-equipped with the most modern machinery available but which are laying off men at the moment because their product cannot compete with overseas government-subsidised imports which are being dumped on the Australian market. These are the industries most likely to suffer in any major adjustments in the tariff structure. Australia cannot afford the luxury of substantial numbers of persons on long term dole payments. That is about all we can say about our present position. When the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and other honourable members advocate free trade I wish they would also point out the efficient areas of industry which are glibly talked about where alternative employment will be provided. If we use the criterion of efficiency we close the motor car industry and the textile industry altogether. We could not compete with Japanese imported cars without tariff protection and do not make any mistake about that. We cannot compete in costs with Japanese, Hong Kong, Chinese and other Asian textile manufacturers. Do not let anyone kid himself that we can. What I want to see is not only the suggestion that cheaper goods can be made available and that employment in Australia should be in more efficient areas but also where that employment will be made available and in what industries these people will be employed. In the electorate I represent almost every industry is subject to tariff protection of a fairly substantial nature and unemployment would quickly reach the total population of the area, except for public servants if there are any still on the payroll, should tariff protection be cut out on the basis that some honourable members have advocated. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Kelly)  adjourned. 
Is leave, granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
That the following tariff proposals, constituting part of the order of the day No. 83, government business, be discharged: 
Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 18 to 24 (1971); and 
Customs Tariff Proposals Nos 1 and 2 (1972) 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister will have to seek leave. 
 I move: 
That clause (c) of recommendation No.  1  be deleted. 
I believe that this is a serious matter. When Government business, which carries special privileges in the Parliament, is before the House, the person who is in charge of the Bill should be able to give authoritative answers. He should be in a position to give to the Parliament answers which can be depended upon. I disagree with the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who said that our job as members of this Parliament is to lighten the load of Ministers. I point out that Ministers are primarily members of this Parliament. If they took a greater part in the activities of the Parliament some of the mistakes they make would not be made. 
Very rarely do we see a Cabinet Minister in the chamber, even when a Bill of which he is in charge is before the House. It is usual for the Treasurer not to be in the chamber when the Budget is debated. 
That has been common practice in recent years. I disagree with the appointment of Assistant Ministers, but that proposition is not before the House at the moment. In an earlier debate it was decided by a majority of this House that Assistant Ministers would be appointed. But at that time the Prime Minister said in his statement that Assistant Ministers could not be held responsible for any statements they make on policy; that only statements by Ministers would be considered to be authoritative. 
I think it should be recognised by the House that one of the unfortunate features of this debate is that when a vote is taken honourable members on the Opposition side will have a free vote whereas the Whips on the Government side will gather together all honourable members on their side who have not been present to listen to the debate, to vote on party lines. If an Assistant Minister is in charge of a Bill problems will arise when the Bill reaches the Committee stage. It is very unusual to have a debate at the Committee stage unless it is the intention of the Opposition or the Government to move amendments to the Bill. 
The clause which I seek to have deleted provides that the responsible Minister will take charge of the Bill at the third reading stage if the third reading is contested. But I had occasion in this House some years ago, when speaking to the States Grants (Home Care) Bill, to ask the Minister for an interpretation of a clause. Eventually the Minister gave an interpretation which is incorporated in Hansard and the validity of which I hope one day to be able to test by asking the Minister to invoke the provisions of that clause in accordance with the interpretation that he gave. But if that statement had been made by an Assistant Minister not only would it have had no standing, because the Government would not have accepted his statement as the Prime Minister has already said that Assistant Ministers are not responsible for policy, but in those circumstances we would have been uncertain of the meaning of the particular part of the Bill and therefore would have no foundation for asking for amendments. 1 do not like disagreeing with recommendations of committees of which I am a member. I believe that the report before the House represents the best consensus that could have been obtained by the Standing Orders Committee, composed as it is. But it is my firm belief that this House should not in any way recognise Assistant Ministers. If they are Assistant Ministers then they are assistants in performing administrative functions and they have no place in the Parliament itself. The Parliament is a place in which a member is either a backbencher or a Minister. Further, it is my belief that any organisation which depends for its operations on unpaid labour works on a very poor principle. If the Government does not consider, as obviously the honourable member for Angas does not, that the work load of Ministers is a reasonable work load, the Government should do something about spreading the work load. There are 27 Ministers in both Houses of this Parliament, and some of those Ministers have very light work loads indeed. I agree that some have very heavy workloads. By some alteration in the administrative orders the Government should spread the work load of the Ministry so that the problems to which the honourable member for Angas referred, which are administrative problems, can be solved. I suggest that if general agreement prevailed in the Government, Cabinet meetings might not be so long, but that is another question. 
I would hope that those honourable members who have been present in the chamber during this debate will consider the amendment 1 have moved because I do not think it greatly alters the effect of the rest of the suggested amendments to the Standing Orders. If my amendment is accepted it will mean that a Minister, not necessarily the Minister who introduced the Bill, will have to sit at the table during the Committee stage, just as a Minister has to sit at the table during the second reading stage. I think it is fair to say that if an Assistant Minister is not allowed to answer questions it is reasonable that he should not be able to answer points raised, in debate. 
I move: 
That the following words be added to the question. subject to proposed standing order No. 132 being amended by adding the words: "The Minister shall, within twenty-one sitting days of the presentation of a petition or the presentation of the first petition of a series of petitions, notify the House what action has been taken with respect to the petition" '. 
If honourable members study the proposed standing order they will note that petitions, after being presented to the House, are referred to the relevant Minister. What my amendment seeks is to place an obligation on the Minister to notify the House what has happened to the petitions. I would imagine that this would be done by way of report to the House. This information could be tabled in the House. In this way it would be included in Hansard or dealt with in the same way as answers to questions on notice. In many cases one would not expect very detailed answers. If the House directs that these matters be referred to  a  Minister I think it is equally in order for the House to direct that the Minister should let the House know what has happened to the petitions. 
My amendment sets out that the Minister Shall notify the House within a period of 21 days. In the terminology of this place that is very close to half a year. I do not think this is an unreasonable length of time in which the Minister should report back to the House on what has happened. To me the amendment does not seem to contain anything substantial. It just requires that not only do we refer petitions to the Minister but that the Minister has an obligation to tell the House what has happened. Even if he tells us that no action has been taken he would at least have let us know what the situation is. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Have new conditions been applied to female applicants for invalid pensions which require that, irrespective of age, if they are not in regular employment they must be medically unfit for house work as well as outside employment before becoming eligible for an invalid pension. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that on each occasion when bank overdraft interest rates were increased, the increases were immediately passed on to home loan borrowers. Is he aware also that when recent reductions were made in the bank overdraft rate no comparable reductions were made in home loan' interest rates? I ask the Prime Minister whether the reason for this is that as the overdraft reduction was to benefit corporate borrowers and large scale borrowers, the advantage was not passed on to the small borrowers? If this is the case, will the Prime Minister consult the banking ' institutions and ask that the smaller borrowers for home loan purposes be given the same benefits as larger borrowers on overdrafts? 
Order! If the Minister had been watching the debate he would know that prior to the honourable member for Wilmot speaking the honourable members for Ryan and Mallee spoke in succession. 1 have called the honourable member for Macquarie. 
I feel that the proposal moved by the honourable member for Mallee deserves to be supported. I think that it is a proposal that goes somewhere between the existing practice and that proposed by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  This proposition is one which deserves consideration and I would ask honourable members to give that consideration to what the honourable member for Mallee has had to say. We should ask ourselves: 'Are we doing the right thing by this country and by the Parliament in our performances at the present time?' When Parliament sits continuously through the night and visitors come into this chamber, they see men sprawled out on the benches, many of them asleep. Is this the way to discharge the business of the Parliament? Of course it is not. This is not good enough and we should be able to change our Standing Orders and rearrange the business of the House in such a fashion that we can end our sittings earlier each evening and, if need be, sit on additional days. There should be no argument about that for those of us who have been elected to Parliament have been elected to serve in the Parliament. 
It is true that we have our duties in the electorate. The work of our constituencies constantly require attention but the basic job of a member of Parliament is to be in Parliament and to serve the electors in this place. I feel that additional sittings of the Parliament would solve the problem that some honourable members may have in their minds. It was stated by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  that to adopt the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills would not be satisfactory as we could perhaps be sitting for 2 hours on the adjournment debate. I think that this has been effectively answered already. The Government has charge of the business of the House and it would very definitely see that the adjournment debate was brought, to an end much sooner than 2 hours after the motion for the adjournment of the House had been moved. In any event, if honourable members wanted to speak on the adjournment debate on matters of moment to this country and to the people of their electorates, surely it is a reasonable exercise of parliamentary practice to permit them to do just that. If some member has some grievance affecting the people of his electorate and if he has been unable to present his views on grievance day because only 2 or 3 speakers from each side of the House had that opportunity, it is reasonable that he should be given the opportunity each evening to speak on the adjournment debate. 
I am satisfied now that perhaps the way to meet the objections to the present practice is to move an amendment along the  lines indicated by the honourable member for Mallee and therefore, as an amendment to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills, I move: 
That the proposed standing order 49a be omitted with a view to inserting the following standing order in place thereof: 49a. Unless otherwise ordered, at 11 o'clock p.m. on Tuesday and at 10.30 p.m. on Wednesday and Thursday the  Speaker  shall propose the question - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate; if the House be in committee at that hour, the  Chairman  shall report progress and upon such report being made the  Speaker  shall forthwith propose the question. - That the House do now adjourn - which question shall be open to debate. 
Provided that: 
if a division be in progress at the time of interruption such division shall be  completed and the result announced, 
if, on. the question - That the House do now adjourn - being proposed, a Minister requires the question to be put forthwith without debate, the  Speaker  shall forthwith put the question, 
nothing in this order shall operate to prevent a motion for the adjournment of the House being moved by a Minister at any earlier hour, 
any business under discussion and not disposed of at the time of the adjournment shall be set down on the notice paper for the next sitting, and 
if the question - that the House do now adjourn - is negatived, the House shall resume the proceedings at the point at which they had been interrupted. 
Provided further that if, at twelve o'clock midnight, the question before the House is - That the House do now adjourn - the  Speaker  shall forthwith adionrn the House until the time of its next meeting.  1 have moved my amendment because I believe that the honourable member for Mallee has submitted to the Parliament a reasonable and workable arrangement. If the proposed standing order is accepted by the House we will have a much more satisfactory and businesslike way of dealing with the affairs of this nation in the future. I endorse the remarks of other speakers about what has occurred here in the past. Most important legislation has been dealt with after midnight, in the early hours of the morning. I reiterate the views expressed by some honourable members on the injustice of keeping the Parliament sitting throughout the night and the obvious burden that is imposed on people who work here. I have in mind Hansard staff, attendants, members of the Press and [refreshment rooms and everyone else asso ciated with the operation of the Parliament. The Parliament and the people deserve something better than they have had in the past. I believe that this is a reasonable proposal which should be accepted. I hope that the Parliament will accept my proposal which falls somewhere between the existing practice and that proposed by the honourable member for Wills. 
There is no substance in the point of order. The honourable member can discuss that point privately. Is the amendment seconded? 
Order! The honourable member for Sturt will cease interjecting. 
Order! There are too many interjections. I think the Minister can make his speech without assistance. 
That the question be put. 

<graphic href="077131197204191_63_2_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="077131197204191_63_2_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Mi  DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)  - The question is that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Macquarie to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills be agreed to. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Luchetti's)  be agreed to. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Why have the first payments for premium grade wheat delivered to northern Victorian silos in December 1971 been delayed for 2 months. 
CB) Are these payments normally made within  i  weeks of delivery. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What alterations will be required to existing television receivers and aerials in order to facilitate the satisfactory reception of colour transmissions. 
If the exhibition by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  is the basis of the Government's policy at the next election, one result, unfortunately, will be that we will need to have members of the Australian Labor Party sitting on both sides of the House because there could not possibly be any Liberals returned. When I hear a member of this Parliament, in the 20th century, advocate that the only way primary producers in Australia can remain in business is for their employees and the children of those employees to starve - and I repeat the word 'starve' - I say it is a disgrace to the Government of this country and to the person who advances that sort of policy. It might be interesting for the honourable member for Balaclava to know that station owners in his electorate pay their station hands less money than they would receive by way of unemployment benefits. That is a fact. 
The honourable member said that our standards of living and wages are such that we need to have tariff barriers. God forbid any government in this country which tries to reduce the wage structure level to the extent which would enable us to compete with the slave labour tactics and standards of some other countries 
The Soviet Union, if you like. I do not know what the standards of that country are. However, I know what the standards are in Hong Kong, Taiwan and a number of other countries with which the Government would have us compete on equal terms. 
A free enterprise Government. The honourable member talks about socialism. God, where would the Australian Country Party be if it were not for subsidies and socialist type marketing systems. This is not a free enterprise government. You are a pack of hypocrits That is all there is to it. You socialise your losses and capitalise your profits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the extremely poor air service provided by both Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia between Melbourne and Canberra on Mondays and Tuesdays. 
Is it a fact that there is no airline service from Melbourne to Canberra between 7.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. on those days. 
If so, does the absence of a service during those hours mean that a traveller -from Tasmania or from a Victorian country area must leave his home the previous day if he is to arrive in Canberra before 2.30 p.m. on a Monday or Tuesday. 
Can the Minister say whey there are 4 services by each airline from Sydney to Canberra during the morning period on Mondays and Tuesdays when each has only one flight from Melbourne to Canberra during the same period. 
Will the Minister ask both airlines to examine their timetables with a view to providing at least one additional service from Melbourne to Canberra during the morning of those days. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the allegation made on radio station 3DB on 27 th March 1972 that a large travel agency had provided detailed information to young people designed to facilitate smuggling of drugs past customs officials in various countries. 
If so. has any investigation been made on this matter. 
Does the distribution of this type of information contravene any Commonwealth law. 
I want to raise a query in relation to this Bill. I ask the Minister whether he can explain the reason for certain words being in a clause in the Bill. I agree with the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  that it would be an advantage if some requirement were placed on a person to have had experience in industrial relations. I can imagine a few people who would qualify for appointment. I have heard them talking about industrial relations and they are so naive about the subject that it is not funny. A substantial number of qualifications are set out for the appointment of a  Deputy President,  but towards the end of the clause the following words appear: 
And is, in the opinion of the Governor-General, by reason of his qualifications, experience and standing in the Australian community, a fit and proper person to discharge the duties of a Deputy President. 
I am interested in what the words 'standing in the Australian community' mean. Do they mean that the person must be well known? They obviously do not mean that he has to be a fit and proper person because that is provided for separately in the Bill. The words must mean something, yet they appear to have no operative function whatever. I ask the Minister: Within the term standing in the community', what would disqualify a fit and proper person who was qualified under other sections of the Bill from the appointment as a Deputy President. 
It seems to me to be a very funny thing to write into a Bill and I ask the Minister whether he would explain to the House why these words appear. If a person is a fit and proper person to discharge these duties and has the necessary qualifications and experience, what is the other requirement which is supposed to appear in the Bill but which is clouded in words which do not appear to mean anything to me? 
The other matter I wish to raise - I think that this has been explained - is that I hope that the Minister can assure the House that a high position in industrial relations applies to both sides of industrial relations and not to only one side as could well be the case. I ask the Minister why these words are in the Bill, because they seem to be completely pointless when taken in the total context of the clause. 
 Last night 1 referred to this matter during the debate on the second reading. 1 raise it again. 1 do not think that the rate of salary and the rate of increase are the real points at issue. The real point at issue is the Government's inconsistency. The Government has gone into court and said that any substantial increase in the national wage would represent a disaster to the national economy. It did not use those words, but that is what it said. This year the increase in the national wage has been about  2i  per cent. It varies because it was a fixed amount, but it was about 2 per cent or 2i per cent. The previous increase, which was nearly 18 months ago, was 6 per cent. This increase was said 'to be a very serious blow to the national economy. The fact that most of it was caused by the 1970 Budget is irrelevant to this debate. But those 2 increases represent 8) per cent increase in 2 years. The increase in the 2 years prior to that was considerably less than that amount. The Minister glibly quotes the average wage increase of 30 per cent and says that this is a justification for the level of increase proposed in this Bill. It may or may not be. I do not really think that the average wage is terribly relevant to anything. 
I accept the point of the honourable member for Denison. He says that if there are not many of you then you can be paid a reasonable wage but if there are a lot of you, like blue collar workers, you can be paid a starvation wage. Is that what the honourable member is saying? There are not many of them therefore it is good? 
The honourable member did say that. He said that there are not many of them. 
The inference is that because there are a lot of others it is bad. I just make this point. I hope that the honourable member for Denison and others can understand it. At the moment the problem with Australian wage fixing is that the people who produce goods are required to work for low wages because high wages will damage the national economy. Those people who produce goods must work not less than a 40-hour week and all those people in the community who provide services - the tertiary industries-  7  can work less than a 40-hour week at higher wages and this does not damage the national economy. I ask honourable members to have a look at that suggestion. The people who produce the goods - including the farmers - and who are responsible for the creation of the wealth of the community must work 40 hours at low wages, but those people who provide secondary services and who produce nothing are entitled to less than a 40-hour week and a higher wage. That is the reality of the Australian economy and of the Government's propositions. I am not challenging the relativity of salaries or anything else. The Government is doing that. 
The fact of this Bill is that it is a backdoor method of getting through a portion of a Bill which the Government was not able to get past the Senate last year. If the Government were honest about it and really felt that this is a justifiable measure, then it should feel the same way about the position of the other statutory officers. It would not be putting this clause into the Bill and dating it back to last November. It would reintroduce the Statutory Officers Bill in this House and send it to the Senate saying: 'If you are not happy about it, we will have a double dissolution'. Why does not the Government try that? I will lay odds that members of the Democratic Labor Party would back down so fast they would most likely burn their backsides. That is a fact. Why does not the Government do that and try to give all the statutory officers the amount to which they are entitled? 
The real position is that the Government has decided that at all costs this increase must be granted. I do not know whether it is justified or not. I have no way of deciding, and I do not think this Parliament has any way of deciding what a conciliation commissioner should receive. The only measure I know of is that when the commissioners were first appointed, thensalaries were fixed at the level of those of members of Parliament.When a committee was set up recently to examine the salaries of members of Parliament, the Cabinet, as. a matter of conscious judgment, decided that an increase not much dissimilar to this in percentage was too high and that it had to be reduced by 28 per cent. If this Parliament;, is to make value judgments on salaries, it would appear that the same value judgments should apply to other people in similar salary ranges. I do not necessarily agree that the Government's decision on parliamentary salaries was based on a value judgment, but the Government did as I have said. 
The second question I want to ask is: Where is the precedent in the Parliament or anywhere else for backdating for 6 months a salary increase granted in legislation? I would like the Minister to tell me because I know of no precedent where a Bill has been brought into this chamber backdating a salary increase' for 6 months. It is a long period. 
We have moved that several times and the Government has said that it would bankrupt the country. 
There are a lot of them and their numbers destroy their chances. It is unfortunate that we are even debating this clause in this legislation. Most likely it would have been better, if the Government had wanted to deal with the clause and to leave the other statutory officers out, to have brought in a separate Bill, butit would never have got it through a joint party meeting because the Country Party could not have supported it in that form because of its general attitude to wages. In this particular case I think that every 
Country Party member will vote for this increase in salary of more than 30 per cent. As I say, it is unfortunate that we are even debating the clause, but the fact is that the Government's double standards have brought on this debate. 
The Prime Minister said here the other night that the Government supported a substantial increase in the minimum wage, but if he reads the transcript of the evidence given on behalf of the Commonwealth Government to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, he will find that what the Commonwealth actually submitted was that any substantial increase in the minimum wage would be damaging to the economy. I do not know whether that is supporting a substantial increase in the minimum wage, but that is what is in the transcript. So the Prime Minister, in his normal fashion, has not in fact told the House the whole truth. 
I do not know about or any part thereof. They were practically the same words; they were just in reverse. This clause should be defeated and if Government members are to be consistent, they cannot support this clause, for they have stood up in this House consistently, day after day, saying that wage increases are the most evil thing that occur in the community, and that no rises should be granted to those people who work for thenliving, to those people who produce the goods in the community. 
I do not oppose any forms of wage increases provided they are decided by the proper methods, and I would not oppose this clause if it were not for the fact that the Government has been totally hypocritical on this matter. The members of the Government are not consistent. They believe that the Australian public are totally and utterly stupid. I sincerely hope that they are not. The Government is putting forward a proposition that, if we take the 4-year period, it is all right for people who depend on the national wage to get something less than a 20 per cent increase in their wages, but it is totally wrong if other people have to accept that same standard. In fact, the Government even applied a double standard to the salaries of members of Parliament and Ministers. It reduced the recommended salaries by 28 per cent before it brought them into the Parliament. The only reason why legislation has been necessary in this respect is because the Senate took away from the responsible Minister the power to fix the salaries personally. That is the only reason why it has been necessary to introduce legislation for salary increases for statutory officers. The Government tried to acquire the power to fix these salaries by regulation. 
Friday, 12 May 1972 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. In view of the decision to allow a Russian deserter to obtain political asylum in Australia, has the Minister considered the position of a number of Greek seamen on whose behalf a number of honourable members have made representations? Is he aware that these seamen are being or may have been deported back to Greece to what I, would think is an equally repressive regime? Will his Department consider whether these seamen also should be given the benefit of political as'Iii m ? If not, will the Minister explain to the House in what way their position differs from that of the Russian seaman? 
Like my colleagues, I am very concerned about the words 'public interest'. I am concerned for 2 reasons. I do not see any coherent body anywhere in Australia which can define or represent the public interest. 1 think that applies more to the present Ministry than to any other group of people which may wish to present evidence in a court. I use as an example something which is current in Australia and which I think indicates the lack of clarity that there can be on any issue at any one time about what is the public interest. Someone, somewhere, will go into a court with the force of law and demand that what has been said at a particular time to be the public interest shall be complied with. There is on the bookstalls at the moment a publication called 'The Little Red Schoolbook'. It is on the bookstall at the Canberra Airport. 
Just a moment. On the front bench of the Government Parties is the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  who says that it is in the public interest that this book be distributed, there is the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who says that this is a subjugation of the rule of law and the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  who makes similar comments. I ask the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  and the Assisting Minister assisting the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Street)  - I do not use them as examples because this is a different matter - how they could define in circumstances such as this what in fact is the public interest. If they were to go into a court on an economic matter, they most likely would say: 'Well, economic matters are a little more clear cut. If the workers want more wages, it is in the public interest that they should not get them'. That is what the Government has always said, lt has said that although the workers want lower working hours, it is in the public interest that they do not get them. 1 suppose that one could say that the public interest is clearly definable in this area. 
There is conflict among Government Ministers on what is in the public interest in economic matters. For instance, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  believed that the Australian dollar should be maintained at its parity with sterling. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  - the de facto Prime Minister - maintained that it should be devalued. So it was devalued. Who is to say that that decision was in the public interest? The decision was reached purely because of the brute forces of Party politics which operated within the coalition. The public interest had nothing whatsoever to do with the decision. Any decision which is reached by the present Cabinet and, in all probability, by successive cabinets on what should be done in wage cases will be arrived at on the basis of what is in the political interests of the government of the day. It will have nothing whatsoever to do with the public interest. Let us not be completely hypocritical about the situation. 
How can anyone suggest that, even with the myriad of advisers which the Government has available to it and who, 1 hope, would disagree pretty violently not only with the Government but also with one another - if they were doing their job they would have to disagree - that the Government, on the basis of this advice, can arrive at a clear-cut decision on what is in the public interest? It is now only 8 months since the Government came into this Parliament and said that it was in the public interest to increase taxation in Australia and it is now about 1 month since it came into the Parliament and said that it was in the public interest that that mistake be corrected. If a mistake of this nature is made in the national wage case, the Government is not dealing with an increase of 20c a week for the person on $70 a week; it is dealing with his ability to maintain his standard of living. If the national wage case does not give to people that level of wages to which they are entitled, they have no other area from which to obtain them. This is especially so with those people who are in the weaker bargaining positions, such as employees of State governments. 
Reference has been made to increases in productivity. By way of interjection railway drivers were mentioned. I make this point: A train crew of only 2 people can now drive any number of locomotives. The number of vehicles on trains has been considerably increased and the average tonnages which are drawn per man hour have considerably increased. But the relativity of the rates of pay of the engine drivers, who are responsible for this increased productivity, when compared with a fitter's rate of pay, are now 25 per cent lower than they were 20 years ago. In fact, engine drivers have increased their productivity by more than 100 per cent but their relative pay rates have dropped. Where is the public interest in that? What is all this talk about people benefiting from increased productivity? What the court has said is that the employer has invested money in the industry and the employees are not entitled to the benefit of the results flowing from that investment. This is what has happened in the railways. When one asks people to increase productivity so that they will obtain increases in real wages one should remember that those people who have increased their productivity substantially over the years have in fact had their relative wages reduced. So let us not kid ourselves about what is in the public interest in that situation. 
The crux of this matter is that the Government is writing into this legislation provisions for making a political judgment which could have been legally made had the Australian people supported the referendum on wages in 1946. They did not do so, and now what the Government is trying to do is to find semi-legal methods - because I doubt very much whether it is a constitutionally valid proposition - to get around the decision of the Australian people, because the Government knows that if this question were put to the Australian people again by way of referendum, it would be defeated. 
The facts of the matter are that no matter what way one looks at this clause, it is not possible for any group of people sitting in a parliament, or in any other area, to define what in fact is in the public interest. A group of people can define what is in the economic interests of some of the employers, what is in the economic interests of some of the employees, or what is in the political interests of the party which happens to have power or those parties which happen to be able to exert the maximum political pressure- not necessarily those parties which govern. We are perpetuating this situation in this legislation, and what is going to be said in court will not necessarily be in the public interest. It may be what the Treasury thinks is in the public interest, which may be totally opposed by the Department of Trade and Industry, and this is not an unusual situation. It may be what is in the immediate political interest of some section of some political party. As I have said previously, there are sitting on the front bench at question time here 3 Ministers who, on another subject, quite publicly are expressing 3 different versions of what is in the public interest. Who is to say which version is right? The judgment day has not arrived yet. I do not believe that this is a valid point. I believe that this is a very dangerous process to put into a system in order to determine by a fairly unscientific manner what levels of wages and conditions should be provided within the community. 
I want to raise a minor matter with the Minister. First, I ask how broad the definition of organisation is. Does it cover organisations such as the ACTU, State trades hall councils and similar bodies, or does it cover individual unions? If it covers individual unions, does it also cover individual employers who should be placed on the same basis? If the latter case applies, will the Minister inform me what the effect would be on the provisions of this Act if the employer is a bank. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Has the issue of pensioner medical cards been discontinued and heavy paper forms substituted for them. 
If so, (a) do these forms lack the durability of the cards previously issued and (b) will he examine the possibility of issuing pensioners with a plastic cover to protect these forms and increase their life. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Will he examine the possibility, of establishing a meteorology station in the vicinity of Geelong in order that comprehensive information can be provided in that area. 
1 was rather disturbed by the remarks of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate).  I realise that in the brief visits he makes to the Parliament from time to time he feels he must make sufficient noise to be heard. The point he has made - I hope the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  will refute it - is that this organisation should have a council which is exclusively manned by people who live in Townsville. I think that is a completely irrational proposition. This marine institute, as the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  has said, is an organisation which is to be called the Australian Institute of Marine Science. I would hope that any self-respecting person, and any self-respecting government, would want that organisation to have a council which consisted of the best people available to run such an institute. If we are to take at face value what the honourable member for Macarthur has said and if there are not 5 or 7 people qualified in this field in Townsville, the institute is to be filled with cow cockies or someone else. The honourable member for Herbert has not to this stage said that the institute should have people from Townsville only on its council. 
I am glad of that interjection because I believe that the honourable member for Macarthur did the honourable member for Herbert a disservice in what he said. I believe that the honourable member for Herbert as the person who represents this area would want the best possible body of men to run this institute. The amendment which is before the Committee relates to a difference on how the council would be constituted. It is nothing more or less. It is nothing to do with local parochialisms or anything of that nature as was suggested by a previous  speaker.  I hope that the Committee will look at this amendment on the basis of the best method of forming the council and will vote on that basis and not on the basis of what could only be described as 'simpleton parochialism of the worst type'. 
I think that what the previous 2 speakers have said should be reduced to plain terms. What they were saying is that they have conceded that the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill will not be passed during this Parliament. The contingency motion - and members may use any words they like to describe it - provides the only means by which the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill will be passed during this Parliament. If, as has been set out by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  - I think the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  understands this as well as I do - we proceed to the Australian Institute of Marine Science Bill and then to some limited debate on the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill but to no vote, that Bill will then go to the bottom of the notice paper. If the honourable member reads the Standing Orders he will see that only -Ministers can rearrange the notice paper. It will not be debated in this House next week. That is obvious. When we resume for the Budget session, nothing but the Budget will be considered. There will be no time for anything else. I think that the honourable member for Moreton, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  are all aware of this fact. 
I am not worried about what they have done. They are concurring with the decision of their party that this Bill will not be carried during this Parliament. That will be the effect of voting against the contingency motion. I think we all understand the purpose of the contingency motion. It is an attempt to bring the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill on in this House for a vote. Those who vote for the contingency motion will be voting to have the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill passed. Those who vote against the contingency motion will be voting against the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill. That is the position; it is nothing more and nothing less. This is all I want to say, but I think that the House should be clear and understand exactly what this is all about. A lot of humbug has been spoken about how it is not necessary to pass the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill before the Australian Insitute of Marine Science Bill. 
This may or may not be true. One thing is true: That this Parliament will not again see the Territorial Sea and Continental Shelf Bill if the contingency motion is lost tonight. 
I want to protest against the action of the Government in moving the motion now before the House. I intend to deal only with the motion before the House, and that is that Government business take precedence over general business. The notice of motion that would have come forward tomorrow stands in my name. It is: 
That this House disagrees with the announcement by the Prime Minister that Camp Hill be the site for the new and permanent parliament house and is of the opinion that the site should be on Capital Hill. 
This is a non-party matter, and it is a matter which I believe the Parliament has a right to discuss. On a previous occasion when votes were taken on this subject, the overwhelming number of members of the Parliament voted for the Capital Hill site. By an arbitrary action the then Prime Minister, who has since been replaced, decided that Camp Hill would be the site. I say 'by an arbitrary action', because that is what it was. Had a vote of the total Parliament been taken - and I think that was not an unreasonable thing to expect - a very substantial majority would have supported Capital Hill. 
This may not seem to be the most important subject that the nation can debate, but the future of Parliament and Parliament's control over itself are important matters. When a single person can arbitrarily overrule the majority of members of the Parliament on a matter which affects the Parliament solely, it is serious, and it is a matter that this House should debate. We are not merely. deferring debate on the question, and we should be clear on this. What we are doing is making it impossible for this matter to be debated again in this Parliament. My understanding is that if the matter does not come on tomorrow, the next Thursday on which this House sits, which will be the Thursday of Budget week, will be a grievance day week and there will not be another general business day, if the normal practices of the Parliament are followed. There is no general business during the Budget debates. So what the Minister is proposing is to wipe this motion out altogether and to prevent its being discussed or a decision being made on it by this House. 
The notice has been on the notice paper since June 1970, which is a substantial time, and it has not yet come up for debate. I believe that the Parliament itself should make the decisions on where the Parliament of the future is to be located, and the only way that that can be done under the present procedures is by a general business item such as is on the notice paper and was due to be debated tomorrow. The whole question of Parliament and Parliament's control over itself is something that should be debated by this House and should be taken far more seriously by honourable members. 
The House on the hill is one thing, but there are a number of other matters, associated and related, that are going on in this Parliament at the moment about which honourable members are never consulted. Ministers' suites are moved into areas where members previously were located; walls are knocked down, members' facilities are altered, and never is an attempt made to consult members of the Parliament about what is going to happen to Parliament. 
I do not know what  Mr Speaker  Rosevear did. 
I am a member of this particular Parliament and I am talking about what goes on here at this time. What happened 30, 50 or 100 years ago, I do not know. I do know that a gentleman in England was refused admission to the Parliament because he would not swear an oath on the Bible. We do not carry out that practice now either. In fact, 5 members of this Parliament made affirmation. So if one likes to go back in time, one can find a precedent for anything. The facts are that the Minister is moving today to remove one of the very few chances that honourable members have for bringing forward items for discussion. This is most likely the most restrictive Parliament in any western democracy so far as private members' business is concerned. Whenever the Government feels like it, it moves in and takes over private members' time. I believe that if we cannot conduct our business in the proper manner, then we should come back here next Tuesday and sit and conduct the business of the Parliament in a civilised and proper way. We have a Bill coming in here tonight which apparently has to be passed tomorrow, even though it is well known that the parties do not meet in the meantime. 
No, I am not going to Singapore, but even if I were it would be just bad luck, would it not? I have no doubt that the Government would arrange for pairs for those members who could not be here, the same as the Opposition arranges for pairs if Government members cannot be here. So I think that that is totally irrelevant. I have said what I wanted to say. I believe that the Government is acting in a high-handed manner and Parliament should take cognisance of the fact that it should be master of its own business. 
I want briefly to say that this matter is far more serious than the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  would have us believe, irrespective of the newspaper report. In the time that I have been here I can remember many newspaper reports on budget days, stating what was to be in the budget and which were not accurate. In this instance information has been given to the Press and I do not think any of us would believe that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  would have accepted that information had he not been sure it was correct. This information on a financial matter has been released at a time when it could affect the operations of the share market in at least 2 States. It is a premature release of a Cabinet financial decision and it is an extremely serious departure from proper practice. Whether or not the honourable member for Angas is the person at fault is a matter for conjecture but the fact is that, on a matter of important financial detail, release of the information has been made to the Press prior to the announcement being made to this Parliament. 
I believe this matter should never come before this Parliament. It is unfortunate that the practice has grown up in recent years whereby, in order to upstage one another, Ministers and others have fed information to the Press. What would be the situation in this House if a Minister or an honourable member prematurely released the Budget papers? What would the Government say on that matter? 
This is why the Standing Orders should be suspended. What would a Minister's reaction be if an Opposition member were to release details of a ministerial statement which had been given to him in confidence prior to its announcement in the House? Government supporters would scream from the house tops. I believe that this matter is too serious to be treated lightly. It is my belief that the House should refer the matter to the Privi leges Committee and I think that that action could be taken on the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that all increases in bank interest rates have been passed on to home purchasers. 
Is it also a fact that recent reductions in bank interest rates were not passed on in the same way. 
To what extent is the reduced overdraft rate being by-passed by banks calling in overdrafts and offering personal loan accommodation at interest rates similar to those which existed before the reduction in the overdraft rate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice:  (.1) Is it a fact that the Australian Consumers Association has published information which states that pest strip type insect control devices are dangerous to human health. 
If so, and as these claims are of concern to many people, has an examination of the safety of these devices been carried out by any Government agency. 
If an examination has not been carried out, will the Minister take steps to ensure that this is done. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. I ask the Minister: Has his Department completed investigations into auction sales conducted in various parts of Australia which purported to be under the auspices  of his Department? Has the Minister found any illegal activities involved with those auctions, and what action has his Department taken to protect the public interest in this matter? 
asked the Minister for 
Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Amalgamated Metal Trades Union could be involved in legal costs of up to $100,000 as a result of challenges, which are being financed by the Commonwealth, to the amalgamation of the Amalgamated Engineering Union, the Sheet Metal Workers Union and the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society. 
If so, will he give consideration to guaranteeing the unions against these costs which are  a  direct result of Commonwealth Government action. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
It may be observed that the Committee has not as yet presented its report on the outstanding items of the previous series referred to the Committee, known as the 49th series of variations. A number of items in the 49th series were proposals about which the Committee had some misgivings and we have been hard at work pursuing these matters, taking a considerable amount of evidence and making several inspections. It is proposed to report on these outstanding items quite soon. I commend this report to honourable members. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
This Bill extends the date for the expenditure of moneys which were allocated some time ago. In the second reading speech of the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  there are one or two matters which I think deserve attention. They refer to the difficulties being experienced by some of the organisations to which the moneys are being granted, in expending the moneys which have been allocated because of local government, State government and other problems. In some States pre-school education is not even recognised as education. It is associated with the Department of Health rather than with the Department of Education and is financed almost totally, on a capital level anyhow, by local government and voluntary contributions. 
It seems to anyone who has read the second reading speech and who knows something about the problems of running and operating kindergartens, that this area of education should be given far more serious consideration than it has been given up to date. This applies especially to areas where what can be described as culturally underprivileged children reside. I refer to those areas where, in the main, the parents are in the unskilled, manual working groups. The statistics for tertiary education show fairly clearly that these children have very little educational opportunity. One of the means by which the educational opportunity for these children can be advanced is by giving them adequate pre-school education. This is just not available to them. Pre-school education is a municipal, private education system which has to be financed on balance by the funds available to local councils - these are not unlimited because of the competing interests for their funds - and by local contributions. It is unlikely that those contributions will be large enough and sufficient to provide educational opportunities in those areas where, in the main, the parents are in the low income groups. In those areas where the children are most in need of this form of education, the likelihood that they will obtain it is lowest. This is something which is of serious concern. 
The other factor of concern is availability of teachers. The only purpose of this Bill is to grant additional time for the expansion of teacher training facilities for pre-school' teachers. The original Bill was introduced in 1968. Apparently - in Victoria at least - the doubling of the output of the Melbourne teachers college, which was the purpose of the , original grant, is still some way off. This means in effect that preschool centres are finding increasing difficulty in obtaining qualified teachers. This year the Victorian Government is allocating only 40 bursaries . for the training of teachers. So that the House will know the exact level of this: problem, let me say that in my electorate it would take more, teachers than those to man preschool centres to enable the bulk of children in. that area to , obtain pre-school education.. My electorate, represents one-thirtieth of the State of Victoria. I think we should understand- that not only are .the schools not being ; provided or financed but also teachers .are not being trained in anything like the numbers needed to eliminate the backlog. In Victoria 27 to 28 per cent qf children obtain a pre-school education.. I. think that if we could get a statistical breakdown, on these children we would find that in those areas where the. children were most. in need of that form of education the percentage is less than half that. I refer to those children whose parents are in the semi-skilled, manual labouring area. 
I raise one other factor - which is of serious concern. I refer to a. document that has been submitted to me by the Shire of Corio, the major shire in. my electorate, which contributes towards the operation of 7 kindergartens. It sets out the difficulties which are experienced in maintaining existing levels of support. These existing levels cater for something slightly in excess of one-sixth of the children who should be attending pre-school centres. In that area the shire council has reached the stage where its total capital investment in kindergartens is $148,000. The community has at least equalled that amount in investment. The council is subsidising kindergartens to the extent of $1 to $1.50 per head, and the children's parents are paying fees ranging from $12.50 to $14 a quarter for their children to attend kindergarten. I have had the experience of being  president  of a committee establishing a kindergarten. I have also had experience in local government. The competing interests of local  government are such that some councils have virtually refused to accept responsibility for what they consider to be an educational responsibility of a State government. I have had personal experience of it costing parents more to send a child to kindergarten than it did to send a child to the first year at State school. I think this is an inverted order of costs. 
I think we also have to recognise the necessity for this form of education - and it is a form of education. If we recognise the right of the children in need of this form of education to have this form of education, we must also recognise that, just as in other forms of education, the Commonwealth has to accept some degree of financial responsibility. I wonder whether the Minister could tell us what discussions have taken place with the Government of Victoria, for instance, to enable the Melbourne Kindergarten Teachers College to proceed with its programme. I see from the Minister's speech on this measure that it is proceeding, but it is now some 4 years since the original Bill was passed, and I would think that if we were proceeding at the rate at which we should be proceeding we would not now be aiming at an output of 400 students; we would be seeking a teacher output of 800 to 1,000 in Victoria - and most likely that is totally inadequate. It is very difficult to get statistics to tell us what the demand is for pre-school teachers because, according to statistical analyses which are put forward, pre-school education is not part of the education system. 
I seek permission to incorporate in Hansard a summary of the problems which the Shire of Corio has with its pre-school centres. I think it sets them out in fairly good detail. The document contains nothing but a summary of the Shire's problems. It is in fact a submission it made to the State Minister for Health. I seek permission to incorporate it because I think it is worth while for honourable members to know first hand the problems with which local government bodies are confronted in assisting kindergartens. 
I make one other point before closing. I think there is a real need for far greater co-operation between the Commonwealth, the States and local government bodies in this area of education. I am not sure that it would not be in the best interests of all concerned if the Canberra model on the establishment of pre-school centres - we would all love to get the levels that obtain in Canberra - were generally adopted. It seems that there is something fundamentally wrong with a situation in which one level of education is financially and administratively ignored by educational authorities - as happens in Victoria; as, I have no doubt, happens in other States; and admittedly as is happening totally in New South Wales - whilst all other forms of education are consuming nearly half the State budgets.. I think that some fairly serious discussions on this matter should take place between the Commonwealth and the States, and that the Commonwealth should accept the position that pre-school education' : is vitally necessary for children who I Would describe as culturally under-privileged. 
Order! 
asked the Minister for the 
Army, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to public statements by community leaders in the Geelong area that the Army is considering vacating the Geelong Rifle Range and handing the area over to municipal control. 
Is this matter under consideration; if so, what proposals have been placed before him and by whom. 
 It is interesting that the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  took to task the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and members of the Opposition for not talking about the Budget and then spent the whole of his speech talking about legislation which may or may not be introduced into the Parliament at some future time. If he were honest I think he would have acknowledged the fact that very rarely in Budget debates do honourable members talk in detail about the contents of any Budget - good or bad. This Budget is a little better than the last; in fact, we hope that it is 100,000 unemployed better than the last. I want to deal with a number of matters but firstly I want to express extreme disappointment in the speech which was made yesterday by the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin).  There is a saying of long standing that the person who is without sin should cast the first stone. I do not believe that that person exists on either side of the Parliament or in any section of the community, lt is a pretty poor state of affairs in the Parliament when an honourable member tries to make cheap political capital out of supposed moral issues and in doing so misquotes members of the Opposition. 
Also, it is fair to say that the electors of Ballaarat would have been better served if the honourable member had drawn attention to the situation which exists in that area where there are over 1,000 un:m.ployed and where in the last 10-year period there has been only a 4 per cent population growth while in the last 5-year period there has actually been a drop in population, according to the Commonealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. These are serious matters in what is one of the most important provincial centres in Victoria. These problems are not isolated in that area; they are a fairly general malaise of rural and provincial areas throughout Australia. But this Parliament should have its attention constantly drawn to the fact that the non-metropolitan areas in this country still exist and are entitled to and should receive the attention of the Government, attention which, despite the words we hear from the Australian Country Party, is not now given.  Major parliamentary  and other inquiries on many subjects have been instituted by this Parliament. Committees have been established by the House of Representatives and by the Senate. However, one of the most important single subjects, the maintenance of population in country areas, has been put forward as a subject of inquiry for a parliamentary committee in this place 3 times since I came into the Parliament and on every one of those occasions, the most recent being in December last year, every member of the Government parties has refused to support the establishment of such a committee. 
So we have a situation today in which it is reported that in Melbourne the beaches may be unfit for people to swim at because of the effluent seeping into the sea from unsewered areas of the city. People have been shifted out of country areas because they could not get employment opportunities there and they have been forced to settle in areas which will not have community services for many years. This is a serious subject and is one which this Government should have dealt with urgently. Now the future Labor government will have to consider the problem very seriously and solve it. The States are not capable of dealing with the problem; they do not have the (financial capacity. It is about time someone took this matter more seriously. I heard the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  suggesting earlier that an amount of $20m which was included in the Budget would establish a rural bank or a bank of that nature. I do not know whether the honourable member is aware of the total rural indebtedness in Australia or whether he was merely adding to the pressure applied to the Liberal Party by the Country Party. It appears now that the Liberal Party has no say in the affairs of government. It has been forced into a situation in which it must accept whatever is put forward by its minor party colleagues. The total rural indebtedness at the moment is over $2,000m so I do not think the $20m provided in this Budget will go very far. lt is worth mentioning also that the total amount of money made available for rural industries in this year's Budget is $60m lower than it was in last year's Budget. 
I want to deal with one other very important matter, but before I do I want to deal with 2 minor matters. Last week in this Parliament the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  made a statement which 1 think indicates the Government's approach to its employees. The Minister said that the secretary to the Leader of the Opposition was not entitled to campaign at week-ends for a seat in this Parliament because he was a Commonwealth employee and was paid an allowance for overtime which covered week-ends. I do not want to make a special issue of this case but to refer to all private secretaries to Ministers because the position of all secretaries is exactly the same. They receive a salary of $8,000 a year with an allowance of $1,400 a year for overtime. If we take the overtime rate as time and a half and leave out week-end work, which carries higher penalties, the allowance means that secretaries are per mitted to work 5 hours overtime a week, or one hours overtime a day. That is the actual rate which the Commonwealth is paying private secretaries to Ministers - one hours overtime a day. Today those private secretaries will work not less than 17 hours. For at least 6 of those hours they will be paid nothing. So much for the industrial relations policies of this Government. The Minister says that the allowance for overtime also covers Saturdays and Sundays. One wonders whether the gentleman concerned will have to get special permission from the Prime Minister to get married in Commonwealth time on Saturday afternoon, because that is the sort of thing that he implied. I absolve the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson),  who is sitting at the table, from guilt in this matter, lt was the Minister for the Navy who made the suggestion. 1 believe it is totally wrong to make the allegation that he did in this Parliament. 
The honourable member for Isaacs said that in the public interest the Commonwealth must intervene in the fixation of wages. When did the Commonwealth ever go to a meeting of a board of directors and say that the fees fixed for the directors of a company were wrong? Where is its legislative approach, or any suggestion of it, to this matter. When did the Commonwealth Government ever say to a board of directors: 'You should not pay your executives such and such a salary'? The Government is consistent in the belief that those persons who receive the highest salaries in the community should fix their own salaries or have their salaries fixed with total lack of interference, but when we get down to the day labour employee of the company the same executive cannot be trusted to fix a salary. Salaries at this level must be fixed by other means, even though both parties may be in agreement. It is tantamount to saying that if a person goes into a shop and buys goods not only should the businessman selling the goods and the purchaser be involved but a government agent should go along to make sure that the purchaser does not pay too little for the goods. 
He taxes the people who make award agreements voluntarily too. But the honourable member may have missed that point. The other point I want to make before I go on to the final matter is that in the Budget we have altered our tax scale. It is also proposed that the rent assistance to pensioners will be extended to pensioner couples. I want to deal with the pensioner couple who own their own home. I know there is the suggestion that to assist in rates would not be equitable or that it would be in some way different, but there is an established precedent. The Commonwealth assists most ratepayers in paying their rates. The only persons who receive no Commonwealth assistance are those people who have no taxable income. I will use an extreme example because I think it shows exactly the structure of the whole system. A man with an income of $40,000 a year, who is anything but poor and anything but unable to pay his own rates, will receive from the Commonwealth on rates of S400 a $250 subsidy in the form of a direct reduction of the amount of income tax he must pay. But a pensioner couple with a combined income of $34 a week, paying SI 50 in rates, pays the lot. Pensioner couples receive no assistance from the Commonwealth. So for the person earning S800 a week the Commonwealth provides a subsidy of $250, and for the person receiving $34 a week the Commonwealth says: 'You can well afford to pay your own rates.' In fact, after the Commonwealth subsidy is taken into account, both couples pay $150. 
I want to deal with unemployment. This is a very serious matter and it is more serious in provincial areas than it is in capital cities. This has been the case for a long time. I am concerned about the Government's approach, especially the approach of the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  It would appear, if one studies the statements issued by the Minister every month, that he lives in some sort of a fairy tale world. The realities do not exist. I think it can reasonably be assumed that, if the Minister does not recognise the realities, there is no hope of his dealing with the problem. I have here the first sentences of the Minister's Press releases for the last 6 months.  1  will read them to the House because if Government supporters believe what the Minister has been putting forward on their behalf they are a lot dumber than they look. In February the opening phrase of the Minister's statement was: 
There was a substantial reduction in the number of persons unemployed in February. 
In the following months he said: 
There was a substantial fall in the level of unemployment in March. 
In April there was again a marked reduction in the number of persons registered as unemployed with the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
The employment situation was generally unchanged during May, with movements in both registered unemployed and unfilled vacancies broadly consistent with seasonal expectations. 
During June an increase in unemployment of 2,566 was almost entirely in non-metropolitan areas where there was a temporary decline in the number employed in the rural relief scheme. 
The number of persons registered as unemployed wilh the Commonwealth Employment Service fell by 21 during July. 
Anyone reading those figures would believe that there had been a variation of only about 2,000 in the period of 6 months. The fact is that this is not a peripheral issue and it is not an area in which there have been continual declines, as the Minister's statements implied. 
At the moment we have nearly 50 per cent more persons unemployed - on a month by month comparison - than we had 2 years ago. That is a very serious situation in an economy which was, until certain Government activities took place, able to provide full employment. If the Minister is making statements like that, obviously with the advice of his Department, the only thing I can suggest is that the Minister should re-examine his own thought trends. Someone should explain to him that when numbers go up it is no good saying they fall because other people can read too, or else he should demand that his Department - which in all probability prepares these Press releases - take a really serious look at the structural problems which exist in the employment market in Australia. 
At this stage the number of people registered for employment is 100,000. That is not the total number of people out of work. There is a very low increase in the number of persons employed - which is an even better guide to the employment situation in Australia - and, added to that, in the provincial areas there are very substantial imbalances in employment opportunities and some 12,000 people are working on the dole. There is no other way of describing it. They are being provided with menial employment - usually nonproductive employment - to reduce the numbers shown as unemployed and to avoid the responsibility of the Government to deal with the structural problems of the economy. I suggest that the Department of Labour and National Service would do well to examine seriously its methods of examining the employment situation. Some 2 years ago a booklet was produced on the employment of women in provincial areas. It showed some very serious trends. But nothing whatsoever has ever been done about the matter. A report has been presented, but the matter has been totally forgotten. 
This Budget is designed to stem the mounting criticism of Government inactivity. lt is a facade to try to cover up unadmitted errors of the past. It does not deal in any depth with the real community problems which exist. It does not and the Government will not deal in depth with these problems because the Government does nol believe that it should accept the responsibility of ensuring that the people in our community have equality of access and equality of opportunity. The Government consistently puts forward the laissezfaire proposition that all people, except farmers, should have to maintain themselves by their own efforts. The facts of life are that many thousands of people are unable to do this and they need community assistance. As we profess to be a Christian community, 1 suggest that we must accept responsibility for meeting the needs of those persons who are dependent on the community in which they live. We are not doing this, and this Budget does not endeavour to solve that problem. I hope that in the future this Parliament will deal more seriously with the real problems or the structural problems which exist in Australia. 
I also suggest that it would be of benefit to honourable members opposite to spend 3 years in Opposition so that they could find out that they are not doing the sort of job that they would have us believe they are doing. It would be of real benefit to them and it would most likely be of benefit to Australia as well. The Australian economy has been under Liberal-Country Party control for 23 years. 
I am glad that the honourable member accepts the responsibility for the mess. About 100,000 people are unable to obtain employment. I suggest that, instead of talking about the problems, it would be a great idea to take some action to solve them. We will not get action under any circumstances from a Liberal-Country Party government. 
Is the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs able to give the House any information on the arrest and conscription into the Yugoslav Army of an Australian citizen who was visiting that country recently? 
When discussing the estimates for the Parliament it is normal for honourable members to put forward some ideas about the manner in which they think the Parliament should operate. It is equally normal for those people who exercise power - the Government - to sit and grin and ignore them. This is the normal process. I have heard honourable members complaining that the Parliament does not work. I heard the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  for instance, suggesting that a lot of the time of the Parliament is wasted on urgency motions. I do not think that the honourable member for Ryan could have been here today when we had a complete and utter waste of the Parliament's time with a debate initiated by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on a matter which has been discussed in this Parliament almost daily for the last 2 years purely for the purpose of finding a platform from which he could try to make the matter an election issue. The matter had absolutely nothing to do with the Government of this country, as every honourable member opposite knows. It was a total, time wasting exercise of the Parliament and a cynical display by the Government of its ability to place business on the notice paper. 
Had the Opposition introduced an urgency motion, the Government would have moved to proceed to government business because of the urgent need to pass Budget Bills which do not happen to be ready to be presented to the Parliament anyway. The Government would have accused the Opposition of deliberately delaying the Budget. So let us not have any crocodile tears about urgency motions. The facts are that the procedures of the Parliament are extremely restrictive of the opportunities given to private members to raise issues. It may well be that we will have to alter fairly radically some of the procedures of this House and some of the sitting times of this House in order that private members' business can be dealt with. 
It should be possible, especially on matters which are largely non-party, for private members' Bills to be brought to a vote in this Parliament. An easy way to ignore one's responsibilities as a member of this Parliament is to have a matter put on the notice paper as a private member and then shelved. Any honourable member who cared to pick up the notice paper and see the numbers of matters which are listed under general business and which will never be voted upon could see that an honourable member who wanted to list a general business item would not even have to think out the consequences because he knows that it will never be voted upon in this Parliament. 
There are some rather important matters on the notice paper. In the last few weeks we have heard Ministers - it is election time, you know - talking about decentralisation. Item No. 13 under General Business on the notice paper is a resolution to set up a parliamentary committee to inquire into provincial cities and regional development. At this time the Government apparently thinks that this is an important matter but it is not prepared to allow such a motion to be voted upon in the Parliament. This is a cynical approach, to say the least. There is and has been ever since I have been a member of the Parliament a Bill on the notice paper proposing to abolish the death penalty. Surely that is a matter which this Parliament should be able to decide. But the Parliament cannot decide it because a cynical use or abuse of power prevents the Parliament from voting on the question. 
Is it any wonder that people believe that the Parliament does not work? If some matter does not suit the political interests of the government of the day, it cannot be voted upon in the Parliament. It does not matter how important the question is or what the question is; if it does not happen to fit in with the business brought forward by the Executive, the Parliament cannot deal with it. It should be possible for private members' Bills dealing with areas in which the Parliament has a say and where the expenditure of money is not involved to be dealt with in this Parliament. As the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  mentioned, there is a resolution of the Senate relating to the siting of the new and permanent Parliament House - that mythical thing that one of these days someone will actually think about constructing. I have grave doubts whether anyone will ever accept the responsibilities of expending the money because no-one is game to grasp the nettle. 
Members of Parliament may well be badly housed in this place but the people who work in the building - the numbers are increasing as Ministers expand their staffs in a never-ending manner so that their incompetence can be covered up by myriads of Press secretaries and public relations people who actually do the work for them - are working in conditions that the legislation of this Parliament would not tolerate in private industry. This Parliament provides a disgraceful example of the neglect by an employer of the working conditions of the staff. The staff, especially the clerical staff, is practically sitting on one another's knees, trying to cope with a work load in a building which was designed to meet the requirements of  1927  and has had a bit of patchwork added every other year since. The Sim odd that is being spent at the moment in expanding this building is no more and no less than money being poured down the drain. 
Another subject which was raised by every honourable member who has spoken in this debate relates to the facilities for members. I am not going to talk about the facilities for members but about the advantages enjoyed by Ministers. When a Minister is to address a meeting as the member representing the electorate, he can use an aeroplane from Canberra and have a car driven from Melbourne to pick him up at the airport and take him to and from the site of the hall. He has someone to write his speech and someone to deliver it to the Press gallery. He is unfortunate in that he actually has to mouth the words himself. 
The content of his speech is not important because it depends not on the Minister's capacity but on the capacity of his speech writer. On the other hand, a private member must go through a myriad of departmental officials, none of whom have any relevance at all to the Parliament, in order to obtain the use of a Commonwealth car. That member cannot get the use of a Commonwealth car if he is in a capital city on parliamentary business other than that which he represents. Of course, if he happens to live outside a capital city and does not have a car, he can walk. 
I do not believe that the Parliament should allow its affairs to be conducted by a Public Service organisation which is not related to the Parliament itself. I believe that this Parliament should have a minister for parliamentary affairs whose responsibilities should include those which are currently carried out by the Leader of the House. He should also take over those responsibilities to the Parliament for parliamentary facilities which are not appropriate to vest in the  Speaker  or the  President.  Recently a Senate committee indicated that the use of facilities by members of Parliament should be the responsi bility of the Parliament. I understand that members of that chamber, who apparently are more likely to defend their rights against the tyranny of ignorance - that is exactly what it is - in fact are increasing their facilities at the expense of members of this chamber. They are expanding the activities of their chamber at the expense of the standing of this chamber because the members of this chamber have never shown any real initiative or intent to stand up for what they believe to be theirs. 
I realise that what is said in this debate will fall on deaf ears and it may well continue to do so. I do not think that previous governments have any better record in this field than has the present Government but I would suggest that some alterations to the procedures of the Parliament should be made to enable private member's business which is not subject to Government policy and does not require the expenditure of moneys to be dealt with and voted upon in the Parliament. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
It ill behoves the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  to start his speech with a totally untrue statement. He said that the Labor Party was not putting up speakers on this Bill. My examination of the speakers' list revealed that there are 6 Labor Party speakers and 6 Government speakers listed. That does not seem to me to be any great imbalance. I would also point out that it is becoming increasingly difficult for members of the Opposition to deliver speeches when they are below third or fourth on the list to speak to a Bill because the Government takes the attitude consistently that if it has not any speakers on a measure it will gag the debate. Last night, on one of the most important matters to come before this Parliament, only 2 speakers from this side of the House were allowed to speak. Applying the criterion of the honourable member, the Government had no interest whatever in grants to the States, how they were used or whether they were adequate, because the Government did not have speakers on the States Grants Bill. I think it is a fallacious argument which has no relevance whatsoever to the merits of a measure. 
This Bill provides for an adjustment of the valuation of houses which qualify, to meet the changing circumstances in the cost of housing, lt does not, in fact, increase the real value of houses which qualify; it merely adjusts the qualifying amount to meet an inflationary situation in certain areas of the Commonwealth. It may well be a better proposition from the Government's point of view and from an administrative point of view to leave out the value of land involved in the calculation. I think it would be easier on a national scale to have the value of the home itself specified in the Bill, because this sort of valuation is not difficult to get, rather than the value of a home and land because of the verywide variations which exist. There are very wide variations in the cost of homes throughout Australia. The increase in the grant from  $500  to  $750  hardly meets the increase in the cost of purchase of homes in some areas since the inception of the  $500  grant in  1954.  However, I would like to speak mainly about the difficulties which some people have in obtaining loans. The great bulk of people who save can obtain their loans without any great difficulty but there are large numbers of marginal cases. There appears to be no way in which discretion can be exercised to cover these people. The inclusion in this Bill of provisions related to credit unions will increase the number of marginal cases. What happens to a person who in good faith saves with a credit union only to find when he applies for a loan that the credit union is not then or was not for some period qualified under the terms of the Bill? This could quite easily happen and almost certainly will happen. Is the individual in that case to be punished because of the failure, as it may well be, of the credit union. 
The Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  has before him at the present moment a case referred by me of a new Australian gentleman who, on advice from his solicitor, signed a contract on a certain date only to find that that date was not the appropriate one. It was the anniversary of his arrival in Australia, not the anniversary of the opening of his savings account. The  2  were  10  days apart, but because of those  10  days he did not have  3  years savings and was disqualified under the Act. I had another case not so long ago of a man who was anxious to get started with his house and poured the concrete for the foundations of his house a week before the  3-year  saving period was up. Because he commenced the construction of his house prior to the expiration of  3  years he also did not qualify as he did not have  3  years savings. There was a not dissimilar case of a gentleman who built a room purporting to be part of a house. He subsequently had to pull the room down and submit new plans to the local government authority and start building completely from scratch again. Yet he was held to have started construction of his house with the original room and therefore did not qualify. 
From a reading of the handbook some pretty complex regulations appear which could be confusing to people not well versed in these matters. On too many occasions I feel this could lead to people not being granted loans. I would like to see a greater discretion provided in the granting of loans to persons who through no fault of their own are excluded from receiving money upon which they are relying. Quite often it is an amount of money around which they have planned the finances for their home. The  $750  grant would be of more assistance if the conditions applying today were not quite so rigid. 
I do not agree with the honourable member for Cook that this scheme has changed the whole savings pattern in Australia. People who want a home have to save and will save. The fact that the Government is now dictating the manner in which they will save is not necessarily either a good or bad thing. People who are able to save quite often, in order to qualify for the homes savings grant, will have to save in a way which may not fit their individual circumstances. They must save at a relatively uniform rate, and this is not always possible. If in one year their savings fall behind they lose a portion of their grant. It is possible, especially in the case of a young couple, that in the second year of this savings period the wife will have a child and not be able to work. Because the savings in that year naturally will be lower that couple will be denied a portion of the grant through no fault of their own. They may well save the amount required in the  3-year  period but because the wife was not able to go to work for a considerable period in one year the amount of the grant will be reduced. In other words, that family will be fined because the wife had a baby. 
There are other circumstances in which this would also apply; for example, the illness of the husband or a temporary period of unemployment of the 'husband1 - and some of those periods of unemployment are becoming more and more extensive. This sort of unfortunate occurrence can reduce the amount of the grant made to a couple because the savings in that year did not meet the requirements. I realise that the margin has been increased in this Bill so that couples can save up to $900 in one year, but this still does not alter the fact that the present scheme is restrictive because it compels people to save in a special way. There should be a far greater flexibility, especially in the fringe areas, in cases where a person misses out on qualifying by a few days, quite often through no fault of his own. As I mentioned earlier, in one case a man was advised by his solicitor, who was obviously quite wrong, that he could sign the contract on a certain day. If one cannot take the advice of one's solicitor one should not be paying him, I suppose. But wrong advice is sometimes given and it was unfortunate that it was given in this case because it cost this man $500. There are numerous cases of people who for various reasons have missed out. 
If the value of this grant is to remain constant - and it has been deteriorating pretty rapidly over recent years - the grant must in some way be equated to the actual cost of housing. At the moment it is an amount of money which I would suggest was worth much less to young persons last year than it was in 1964. Another matter which irks a lot of people is that there are provisions in the Bill under which a home which was built by, for example, a State housing commission does not qualify for a loan. Consider the case of a home being bought by a couple from the original purchasers. Whilst the house may well have been built at a cheap rate and sold to the original purchaser at a low price because of Government assistance in its construction - and there is some doubt now whether such houses are cheaper than comparable privately built houses on resale - when the second purchaser purchases the house from the original purchaser there is no reduction in the price. The house is sold at its market price. Yet in such cases the second purchaser is not eligible for a homes savings grant in respect of that house because it is assumed that the price paid by the original purchaser was lower than would have been paid had the house not been built under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. This reacts against individuals in a manner which should not be allowed to continue. I would ask the Minister to give this matter consideration. That provision has been in the Act ever since its inception. I can assure the Minister that a person selling a housing commission home will not take $750 off the price because it was built with Government assistance. The owner gets what he can for it and that is the most natural attitude in the world for him to take. 
One other point I wish to raise is the very serious situation which is developing with relation to the cost of housing and the interest charged on housing finance. The amount of $750 provided in this Bill would not meet the increase of 1 per cent in the interest rate which has occurred since the inception of the Bill. When we look at the manner in which these amounts have moved in recent years we see that valuations have gone up so that now the maximum price of a home to qualify for a grant has been increased to $22,500. The relativity between the cost of housing and the level of the grant has completely altered since the inception of this legislation. I do not want to say any more at this stage but I would suggest that if this type of assistance to people is to be continued it should be based not merely on an amount of money plucked out of the air and adjusted some time or never but on the objective of ensuring that the maximum possible number of people get the grant, and that the grant has some relation to the actual cost of housing. 
I wish to raise a matter tonight which is of serious concern to a large number of people at Avalon which is in my elector ate. I refer to the future of the Australian defence aircraft industry. Last year employees in that industry were plagued with doubts and uncertainties because of a proposed merger of the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd. Very detailed planning and studies of this proposed merger took place. Repeated statements were made to the effect that in the event of any merger arrangement the interests of the employees in the industry would be protected. However, the position of the employees was unsatisfactory. Now it appears that that merger arrangement is no longer to proceed. 
I noted a recent Press report which stated that Cabinet had arrived at a decision on the future of the industry. I hope that the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  will make a statement to Parliament if not tonight then at some time in the near future, about the present position in the industry. I think the Minister will recognise, as most people do, the concern felt by employees in the industry when they see articles such as that which appeared in the 'Financial Review' 2 days ago. That article claimed that 2 of the private operators in the aircraft industry in Australia were approaching the stage of closing down. Other articles have suggested that a 4-way merger was a possibility and that the Government Aircraft Factories would be a minor partner in such an operation. These stories are current. 
So far no action has been indicated on the reports relating to the earlier merger arrangements which have been in the hands of the Government for some time. Obviously employees in the industry are becoming concerned about their future. The success or failure of the Nomad aircraft, as it is now known - formerly it was known as Project N - most likely will have a great deal of bearing on the future of the Government Aircraft Factories but the employees in the industry are concerned about their future. I hope that the Minister will inform the House - if not now, then in the very near future - about the present position because no statement has yet been made here. There have been a number of newspaper articles about the future of the industry but they may or may not be correct. 
I hope the Minister will be able to give to the House some information on the present proposals, the present situation in consideration of merger arrangements and the Government's view of the future of the industry. Are more complicated merger arrangements now under consideration than were being considered last year? Has the proposal to merge the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd been dropped? Is it or is it not now proposed to carry out the rationalisation programme which was so extensively investigated last year? It is vital to the industry's confidence and I think it is vital to the interest of the employees in the industry that some statement of fact is made on this matter. I do not want to delay the House any longer because all I require is some information from the Minister. I think the Minister is as aware of the situation in the industry as I am. If the Minister is able to give some information which will satisfy the employees in the industry I will be very grateful. 
 As one of those who represent a considerable number of the people whom the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Barnes)  has accused of some sort of incompetence and lack of skill, people who built for the Royal Australian Air Foce the Mirage aeroplane, which has a better service record than any similar aeroplane built anywhere else in the world, people who were able to build Sabre aircraft and  1,000  military aircraft for Australia during the war, I suggest that this Parliament should totally repudiate 'the completely irresponsible remarks of the honourable member for McPherson. He suggested that the Australian aircraft industry, which is one of the most highly technical and skilled industries in Australia, is not competent, not capable of doing a better job of constructing an aircraft than the manufacturers of that phantom aircraft, the Fill, which was ordered as an election gimmick in  1963  but which in  1973  may well arrive on board a ship because the damned thing will not fly. The honourable member should be thoroughly ashamed of himself for the imputations he made against the Australian industry. He mentioned the Wirraways. It might be of interest to him to note that it was a government of his political complexion that was responsible for the construction of that aircraft. It also might be of interest to him to note that they were not bad aircraft for that particular type of construction. Unfortunately the government of that day, like the Government of today, spent more time talking about defence than doing anything about it. As a result we were caught with our pants down when a war was declared in  1939  and it was not until a Labor government came into power that anything was done to defend this country. 
The amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  calls for a percentage of offset orders to be given to the Australian aircraft industry. This industry already is doing some work in this field, work which most likely has kept some parts of the industry afloat. It is not suggested by any major manufacturer in the world that our industry is not com petent to do this work. In fact, the only person I have ever heard say that it was not competent was the honourable member for McPherson. I doubt very much whether the honourable member can name the last time that there was a strike in that section of the Australian aircraft industry that would be manufacturing these goods. But facts do not matter to the honourable member. He gets up and makes a general condemnation of all Australian workers. That makes the farmers happy, because they believe that all workers are Communists, and the honourable member does not care about the truth. The fact is that Australia does have a very efficient small but compact aircraft industry, which is being starved for orders. There is no doubt about that. It has prospects - it has always had prospects. It has capacity, and when given a job it has always done that job in a first class manner and has always delivered ahead of schedule the aircraft that were ordered by this Government. The Mirage project was completed ahead of time, as was the Sabre project. 
-J do not know whether that project has been completed or not. The aircraft certainly do not fly at this stage, or should I say that they fly for short distances but mainly downwards. The facts of the matter are that given continuity of orders . and the opportunity to maintain the modern equipment and skills necessary, the Australian industry can measure up to any industry of a comparable size in the world. There is nothing wrong with the suggestion that Australia should demand offset orders. Most other countries do it and it is expected by the people selling the aircraft. It is one of the basic necessities of aircraft sales and purchase. If you want to maintain our industries then you have to stand up and fight for them, but do not expect any international corporation to give you anything on a platter. It is just not done that way. 
The Australian Government has not to date demanded anything like sufficient offset orders. One wonders what offset orders could have been obtained from the United States of America had we stuck out for orders in the Fill project. You never know, we might have built some parts in 
Australia which would have been useful in some alternative aircraft. But we raced over and signed a blank piece of paper and handed over $200m for an aircraft that might defend Australia if we can find an enemy in 1983. This amendment should be carried by the House for the simple reason that it is necessary that this House give an expression of opinion on whether our aircraft industry should continue. As the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  said last Thursday night, there are prospects of work for the industry but it is difficult to obtain. Australia is in the process of buying hundreds of millions of dollars worth of aircraft at this time. That is a tremendous bargaining position to be in, because the aircraft industry in every country is competitive. By using that bargaining position to obtain offset orders the Australian industry should be able to be kept in a reasonable state of activity. 
The problems of the industry over the years have occurred because there has been too much ebb and flow. Skilled personnel are trained but then the peaks of production are passed and the skilled personnel disappear from the industry. Their training in what is a highly skilled industry is totally lost. The graphs of employment in the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd show large fluctuations in the number of persons employed. Persons skilled in the industry were recruited in Great Britain, brought to Australia on the promise of lifetime jobs but now are looking for jobs not in the aircraft industry but in other industries where their highly skilled training is totally wasted. An economic asset and a defence asset are lost to Australia forever. Dealing with continuity, one project which was very successful in Australia was the Jindivic project. Although 400 were built, never once were the Government Aircraft Factories able to obtain the economies of scale from a mass production run. All the planes were built in small numbers of 10 or 14 at a time - all short run hauls. There were never the real economies that could be obtained from a large run. If they had obtained 400 orders at the start, far more profits could have been made and a far better job could have been made of this project. The Ikara and the Nomad will almost certainly receive the same sort of treatment. They will be ordered in small batches so that there can never be any real economies. This is an important industry which would be vital in any defence situation. One of the things we cannot do is fly a broken down aircraft to America to get it repaired, but that is what we would have to do if we dissipated the aircraft industry in Australia. 
I support the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition and I again totally repudiate the remarks of the honourable member for McPherson. One of the things that this House can be proud of is the skill and dedication which has been shown in their jobs by men working in the Australian aircraft industry and it is stupid and irresponsible for anyone to stand in this Parliament and suggest that the only way Australia can obtain highly complex and successful aircraft is to buy them overseas. Those aircraft that have been built in Australia have been better than the aircraft of the same type built by the original manufacturers. This has been so in every case where we have built the .aircraft in Australia. This House should be proud of that and we should not go running around the country trying to denigrate Australian skills merely to try to make a few cheap political points. 
The honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  has told us that the foundation stone of a great new nation is about to be laid. It fs unusual to find a foundation stone being laid on about the 101st floor, because that is about the stage of development we have reached. The honourable member's forward thinking with no proper understanding rings very hollow when one looks at the situation which has developed under this Government. In 1944 - it was not yesterday - the then Prime Minister during a war chaired a meeting of the State Premiers at which a regional planning scheme was adopted. That planning scheme was developed to the stage of final implementation. In 1949 a report was prepared and published by the then Minister for Post-War Reconstruction, the Honourable John Dedman. A week ago I asked for a copy of that report from the Parliamentary Papers Room. It is not available. 
There are no copies of that report available at all - the report of a planning scheme which was far more advanced and basic to the needs of the Australian community than the one the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has produced some 24 years later. The only known copy of that report in Government hands is in the library of the Department of Housing and it is not available for honourable members' perusal. I suggest that a report on such an important matter which was brought down shortly before this Government came into power, especially a report published by a Commonwealth department in co-operation with the comparable State departments, should be available to members of this Parliament for perusal. There has been a vacuum of 23 years in Government thinking on decentralisation. There has been a lot of air, a lot of talk, but very little action. Since the early 1960s about 5 attempts have been made in this House to have a parliamentary committee set up to study decentralisation and associated problems such as regional development. But on every one of these occasions the Government has refused to accede to this request. On the last 2 occasions when such a motion was moved I was the mover. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Bennelong suggest that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  was an expert in this subject. I would like to draw his attention to that honourable gentleman's reply to my moving of a resolution for a select committee in 1969. I would have thought that an expert would be able to see 3 years ahead at least even if he could not see 3 years behind. In 1969 I asked that the Parliament study the problems of decentralisation and regional development. I think that was a very reasonable request. Had that request been acceded to some time ago we might well not have had the crisis situation which has now developed to the extent that it has this Government scared stiff of the reaction of the Australian population because of its past total inaction. The reaction of the Minister for Defence to my motion was in these words: 
From what I know of committees, if this com.mittee were set up it would undoubtedly recommend further assistance by the Commonwealth to decentralisation. The Commonwealth makes  an  enormous contribution to decentralisation. 
I repeat that the Minister said that the Commonwealth makes an enormous contribution to decentralisation. In the period immediately preceding my moving this resolution and in the period closely following it the drift to the cities in Australia was at its highest peak. So much for the enormous contribution that the Minister talked about. 
The Minister for Defence, who is an expert on this subject, said tonight that he was extremely disturbed about the lack of growth in the Albury area, which is in his electorate. In 1969 I pointed out to the 
Minister, who was then at the table, that the Albury area in his electorate was one of the areas which had an alarming slowing dows of growth. The Minister, in his reply, said: 
. Albury, to which the honourable member for Corio has referred, has developed at the rate of about 11 per cent, although the overall rate of development of the State is only about 8 per cent. This shows that balanced decentralisation is taking place. 
If he had taken note of the remarks that I made that night or if he had been an expert as claimed he would have known that 11 per cent was considerably lower than the level of the previous census period and lower than the census period before that. He would have known that there was a declining growth rate in the area as there was in every major country area ki Australia. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has put forward a statement which can only be viewed with some suspicion. I think that, had the Government been serious about this, it would not have involved itself in cheap name dropping. Quite obviously the use of the name, very respected as it is, of the  Chairman  of the National Capital Development Commission, was designed to add status to the statement. The announcement that this man will not hold the position beyond July of next year is clear evidence that he will not in fact be the man controlling this organisation and his name is being used purely to add status to what is a hurried and ill considered statement. 
It is a good thing that the Government, even if motivated only by election panic, has decided that something can be done about decentralisation. I suggest that some of the Ministers and members who are now taking a great interest in this subject should have a look at the remarks that were made by members of their own parties on previous occasions. The last time an Australian Country Party member even bothered to talk in a debate on this nature was in 1969. The only Country Party member to talk was the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull),  who advocated that the proper method of decentralisation was to reduce the number of electors in country electorates so that there could be more Country Party members in this House. This was his idea of decentralisation. 
On 9th December 1971, the last occasion on which there was a debate on this matter, when I moved a resolution, the terms of which were not dissimilar to the proposals now put forward by the Prime Minister, no member of the Government parties who represented other than capital city areas, spoke in the debate. Apart from the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon),  who did make the remark that he felt that a national outlook was needed, none of the honourable members from the other side of the House who spoke on that occasion made any real suggestions or indicated that they were prepared to have this Parliament look at the matter. 
It is a strange quirk of fate, even though it is a valuable exercise in human relations, what a desperate government- will do in the dying hours of its term of office. There are opportunities in Australia to -try to slow down the rate of metropolitan development. However, this will not be done, in the way the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  suggested, by the transference of funds. The backlog of needs in the metropolitan areas is too great, lt will not be possible to catch up with the backlog for such a period that, if we are to depend on a redistribution of funds that will not be needed in metropolitan areas to develop urban growth centres without- additional funds being injected into the system, the problem will recreate itself before the present problems can be even .nearly solved. Therefore redivergence of funds will not solve this problem. 
The imbalance of growth between country and city areas is extremely serious. To let the House know how serious it is, I will quote the preliminary figures from the last census taken in Victoria which show the relationship of the growth in nonmetropolitan areas to the growth in the Melbourne metropolitan area. In the census period 1961-66 the metropolitan area grew by 13.54 per cent. In the same period the remainder of the State grew by 3.53 per cent. In the census period . 1966-71 the urban area of Melbourne grew by 12.83 per cent - this was a pretty even growth rate - and the non-metropolitan areas grew by 0.52 per cent. Therefore the growth rate in all areas outside the Melbourne metropolitan area in the 5-year period was of the order of one-half of one per cent. 
During that period the Victorian Government established a scheme for the rapid development of 5 specified areas. The largest of those areas was Ballarat In the census up to 1961, Ballarat, which was one of the areas named for rapid development, had an actual decline in population of 1.5 per cent. I think that illustrates clearly to the House the seriousness of this problem. An area which was designated by the Victorian Government - and I am quite sure that the State Government tried to do the job which it set out to do - for rapid development, and which had the largest urban and industrial base of any of the 5 centres in Victoria, had a decline rather than a growth in population. 
This is a serious problem; it is one which must he tackled with far more foresight and vigour than have been shown by this Government in the 23 years it has been in office. Had the Government proceeded with the regional development proposals in Victoria and the other States which were already in existence and agreed to by the 6 States - in Victoria regional planning councils were set up and were operative - some progress would have been made. But this Government just torpedoed the scheme and said: 'You can forget about regional development; we are not interested.* I have the very strong feeling that if the Government is returned after this election it will do exactly the same thing to this scheme. Despite what the Minister read from the Liberal Party platform - and I am surprised to know that it even has a platform - this Government has never shown any inclination whatsoever to take any note, except in regard to electoral redistribution Bills, of the problems of growth which are facing non-metropolitan areas. In every non-metropolitan area of the State of Victoria, and in most States of the Commonwealth, there are clear examples of the Government not taking any action whatsoever to promote growth. 
I wish to make one point. It is not very long ago when the area of Corio, which I represent, was the fastest growing area in Australia. At the height of that growth rate in 1958, the Victorian Government used all the facilities at its disposal to prevent the Ford Motor Co. from establishing a factory extension in that area. Instead, because of the policy of the Pre mier who wanted to see Melbourne with a population of 5 million people, that company was persuaded to go to the Melbourne metropolitan area. I hope that the new Premier is more enlightened. But the facts of the matter are that the growth rate and confidence in the growth of my area were torpedoed by the State Government as a deliberate act of policy. I suggest that there is no evidence on the record that this Government has any more serious intentions on this matter than had the Victorian Government at that time. I make one other suggestion. If the Department of Housing has the only copy of the report on regional planning in Australia that is available to the Government, I ask the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  whether he will consider having copies of that report roneoed and made available in the papers room of the Parliament so that honourable members can obtain copies of this important document which resulted from the Premiers Conference of 1944. It is totally wrong that members of this Parliament cannot obtain such an important document. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I want to deal with one or two matters, the first involving what I consider to be straight out contempt of this Parliament and the Australian people. 1 refer to the statement made this morning by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  who does not consider that the debate on' the estimates for his Department is sufficiently important to warrant his presence in the Parliament, in which he indicated that he did not believe it was any business of the Foreign Affairs Committee or the Parliament that he had gone to Indonesia to sign an agreement on what in effect are the borders between Australia and Indonesia. If the Australian Parliament is not entitled to be notified in advance of any such agreement and not entitled to ratify any such agreement it is pretty useless having a Parliament. What the statement and action of the Minister suggest is that we have some God-like figures in this country who are so stupid that they believe that they alone have the right to determine the borders of this country. That is in effect what has happened in this instance. I am not saying that the borders drawn are good or bad but this Parliament should ratify any agreement which alters the sovereignty or control of any territories formerly under the control of the Australian Parliament. In the United States of America no such agreement could be made without the ratification of the United States Senate. It is an indictment of the parliamentary system in this country that one man can sign an agreement without having even ro enter into discussions with a parliamentary committee of any description or having to report the matter to the Parliament which, after all, is supposed to be the legislative body controlling national affairs. 
The other matter I want to deal with is in the same vein. This morning at question time the Prime Minister, in answer to a question in which he was asked why, when he was Minister for Foreign Affairs, he gave information to the Parliament which was not correct, indicated that as he was no longer Minister for Foreign Affairs the question should be directed to the present Minister. How ludicrous it is for us to have a situation where the Prime Minister suggests that we should ask another Minister why the Prime Minister misled the Parliament originally, or, if he did not mislead the Parliament, why he made statements which were in error? The facts as I see them are that no person other than the person who misled the Parliament can explain such actions. It is no good suggesting, as the Prime Minister has suggested that the blame for actions for which he was responsible as Minister for Foreign Affairs should be placed on an officer of the Department. Ministers are responsible to this Parliament for the decisions of their departments. In this instance the documents concerned were signed by the Minister and in my opinion the taking of action against an officer of the Department is just looking for a scapegoat on whom to lay the blame. There are sufficient areas of doubt about the propriety of what was done and the manner in which supposed overseas aid was made available lo countries after aircraft had actually been purchased, to cause concern. According to the documents that are now available, some of the requests were asked to be altered after they had been made in the first instance. There is sufficient evidence to support a prima facie case against any Minister. 
I believe that this Parliament should not have to debate this type of matter under the Estimates. A statement should be made by the person responsible, the person who signed the documents which enabled the purchase of the aircraft and which initiated the moves. That is the present Prime Minister. He must accept responsibility and cannot blame officers of his former department and certainly cannot ask the present Minister to explain away actions which he himself took. I believe that in this instance there is every need for the Parliament to be told exactly what is going on, exactly what went on, why the normal procedures were not carried out and why it was that after purchasing aircraft we had to ask overseas countries whether they would like these aircraft as aid. That is what the documents show. This is a serious matter because there is at least prima facie evidence that incorrect procedures were adopted in the name of this Parliament. 
I raise one other matter in relation to the estimates for the Department of External Territories. A division of responsibility exists between the defence of the Territories and the maintaining of law and order in the Territories and other forms of government. Because of this division the Pacific Islands Regiment is placed in an advantageous position when compared with the Territory police force which could have the result that persons who would normally enter the police force - the best of the recruits - were siphoned off into the Pacific Islands Regiment. Under the existing circumstances this may not matter greatly, but it can create in the Territory the same sort of problems as most of the countries of Asia already have. Because the most able people are being attracted into the Army as opposed to the public service and the police force, if you are not careful you can create a situation - I am not being critical of anyone on this - where those in the Army will feel at some stage that they are better qualified to govern the country than those persons who are elected or those persons who are running the public service. This has happened in most of the countries of Africa which have achieved independence. 
I believe we have a responsibility to ensure that no section - especially the defence forces, which at the moment anyway are our direct responsibility - is placed in the position where it has a distinct advantage in the recruitment of personnel, as has occurred and does occur elsewhere. It is very important that this matter be given serious consideration and that we do not build up an elite in the Pacific Islands Regiment to the detriment of other areas of activity in the Territory of Papua New Guinea. I hope that the Minister will take note of this matter and give it serious consideration, because we do not want happening in New Guinea what has happened in so many African countries because of the elitism which has characterised defence forces. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that a number of small hospital benefit funds have shown substantial losses in the past year? If such a fund fails, who meets the costs of outstanding medical and hospital bills owed by contributors? It it intended that fund contributions will be increased early next year to cover increased fund costs? Is the Minister aware of an application by a major fund to the Victorian Government for permission to enter into speculative investment? If such permission was given by a State government, would the Commonwealth be required to cover any losses to contributors which may be incurred by the failure of such investments? 
I wish to raise 2 cases, each of which concerns constituents in my electorate. The first case, which involves the Repatriation Department, concerns a constituent who recently had his rate of pension reduced from the intermediate rate to the 100 per cent rate. I raise this matter because it seems to me to be a clear case in which tribunals have reacted not to the facts but to criticism which they have undergone recently. Having looked at this case, I think there is clear evidence for some members of this assessment tribunal to be psychiatrically examined for senility. This gentleman was first assessed at the intermediate rate in April 1969 and the assessment was backdated to September 1968. Since that assessment he has been subjected to reassessment on 3 occasions. It appears that every effort was made to change the level of his assess ment to a lower rate and that eventually a board was found which would lower his rate, and he was reduced this year to the 100 per cent pension rate which, on my understanding of it, indicates that the assessment tribunal feels that his war-caused disabilities are now less than they were 3 years ago. 
I come to the point of- the -argument. This man has been subjected to reassessment on 3 occasions in 3 years. He is now, at 70 years of age, considered to be in a better condition medically to go out and earn a living than he was at 67 years of age when he was assessed at the intermediate rate. I do not think it is necessary to say any more about this case, but I think that somebody along the line ought to have a serious look at why this man has been subjected to reassessment 3 times in 3 years at this great age. Surely no person in his right mind would suggest that a man at 70 years of age is better able to go out and earn his living than he was at 67 years of age. I leave that case because I think the facts are fairly clear and speak for themselves. I . hope that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten),  who provided me with the reply on this matter - and I realise that he does not have the power to reverse decisions of tribunals - will find out why this man was reassessed 3 times in 3 years at this age. It is the fact that this occurred at his age that I am complaining about. At 67 years of age he was placed on the intermediate rate, and at 70 years of age suddenly he is considered capable of going out and finding himself a job to provide himself with an income, which does not seem to me to be right. 
The other case concerns- the PostmasterGeneral's Department and telephone charges. Recently there has been considerable discussion about incorrect charging in and out of the Newcastle area, and I believe that this is a case in which a man has been overcharged. This again is a matter which has been investigated. The Department has said that it has checked its equipment and found that there is no way in which it could have been wrong. In a 5-week period this gentleman's meter showed 2,800 metered calls for which he was charged. It is true that his daughterinlaw, who was then his son's fiancee, was attending Newcastle University and that a number of calls were made to Newcastle. However, I suggest - and I have discussed this with both the gentleman concerned and his son - that on any basis 2,800 metered calls - at the rate of one metered call every 4 seconds, I think that is the rate - means that this gentleman or his son would have had to talk on the telephone for about half an hour nearly every night during that period to run up such a bill. Prom the information I have been able to obtain and as a result of the discussions I have had with the gentleman concerned and his son, who used the telephone on most of the occasions involved, I do not believe that the account is correct. I believe that in this case, by some means, an error has been made. The subscriber is being asked to pay the price because the Department like all government departments - this has nothing to do with the Minister - cannot make a mistake. There is now sufficient evidence from a variety of sources to show that the readings of metered calls are not always accurate and that it is possible for meters to be activiated by means other than by a caller dialling a number. 
I know of at least one case where a woman received a very substantial telephone bill which the Department eventually admitted was incorrect, when she was not in occupancy of the house. In the first instance the meters were checked and found to be correct. In the case to which I have been referring the man's accounts for metered calls over a period were $11.26, $6.25, $12.56, $12.88, $49.20 which was a period when the girl was in Newcastle and the son was ringing up, as in the next period when the bill was $168.34. The subsequent bill dropped to $15.25. The client is not a person who does not know something about the charging of accounts. He works for the Geelong Gas Company where he has the same problem every day of dealing with customer complaints about the levels of their accounts and about incorrect meter readings. He is experienced in this field. I know him very well personally and I know his son personally. I believe they are honest about this, that the charges which have been levelled against them are far above the level of the calls that have been made. When a person who works for wages receives a phone bill of $168 it sets him back on his heels a bit. There is no way in the world that the customer can be protected against this type of thing. If the Department is in error there is no way in which the customer can obtain redress. 
Yes. For a period  or  that time his phone was out of order and he could not make outward calls. He has been told that he must pay the account or his phone will be disconnected. I think there is very great need of some means by which an appeal against a departmental decision can be made by a subscriber, especially where a charge is made and there is no way of recording actual calls except by a mechanical device which can go wrong, 
I second the motion. I believe that the motion moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  to suspend Standing Orders should be carried by this House for the very good reason that this parliament is the custodian of the public interest of this nation. It is clearly evident from all the remarks that have been made so far that the procedures laid down for Commonwealth departments and the procedures laid down for this Parliament for guidance of the Executive have not been carried out. It is in the interests of the Parliament that this motion be carried and that the matters referred to in the motion moved by the honourable member for Blaxland be fully ventilated in this Parliament. You cannot clear away a smell by putting a gag over your nose; all you do is to keep it away for a short time and make the eventual effects so much greater. This is a matter which must be cleared up by this Parliament as soon as possible. 
There is a doubt; whether thedoubt is justifiable is irrelevant. There is doubt about the actions of the most important figure - yourself excluded,  Mr Speaker  - in this Parliament. I do not believe it is in the best interests of the Government, the Opposition or the nation that refusal to allow a debate on this issue in this place should continue. I believe that this motion to suspend the Standing Orders is of the utmost importance to this Parliament and to its standing in the nation. It is also of the utmost importance that we should have clearly explained, not in a 5-minute passing reference but by a substantive debate, the matters covered by the motion moved by the honourable member for Blaxland. The refusal to allow the honourable member to put the reasons why he moved the motion to suspend the Standing Orders is a disgrace to the person who moved the motion that the honourable member be no longer heard and a disgrace to every member who voted for it. They voted to hide the facts from the Parliament and the people of Australia. That is what they voted for and it is in line with; the mad secrecy syndrome which characterises members of the Government. We have almost reached the stage in this Parliament where the members of the Government are secret. We will reach the stage where we will not be able to stand and name Ministers because that will be one of the undisclosable secrets. 
The Standing Orders should be suspended on this occasion for the very good reason that this is the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia and it is the only forum in which a matter of this nature can adequately be debated. It is senseless to suggest that the Senate can debate this matter but that the chamber in which the Ministers who are responsible for this matter are not present cannot debate it. I think this motion should be unanimously carried by this House. I believe that the action of gagging the mover of the motion is, firstly, childish and, secondly, shows great cowardice on the part of the Government. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Clyde  Cameron) adjourned. 
We are discussing a set of estimates which cover the entire field of defence expenditure. I want to deal firstly with an individual matter about which I am concerned and of which I am sure the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  is aware. Recently it was brought to my notice that a gentleman who had served in the Australian forces and whose discharge certificate showed that he had overseas service made application for a war service home loan. He was asked to produce his discharge certificate. That certificate was forwarded to the Department of the Navy for verification and it was not returned to him. However, a new certificate was sent to him on which his active service had been deleted. 
Some time ago I took up a matter in which the person concerned claimed that the reasons for his discharge from the Army were incorrectly recorded on his discharge certificate. I was informed on that occasion that the discharge certificate, once issued, could not be altered. Whether or not the original discharge certificate was in error, apparently in this case the discharge certificate was withdrawn without consultation with the person concerned. A new certificate was issued which eliminated the active service which had been credited and I assume would have been credited for the rest of his life if he had not applied for a war service home loan. So one can only assume that the new certificate was issued to disqualify him from obtaining a war service home loan. It may not have been vindictive, but they were the circumstances under which the new certificate was issued. I raise this matter at this time because 1 think it is a matter of some gravity. In the second case an incorrect discharge certificate was issued, and in the instance I mentioned earlier where the discharge certificate contained matters which was to the disadvantage of the serviceman. I was informed that it could not be altered once it was signed by the discharging officer. There seems to be a double standard there. 
I want to deal primarily with the defence aircraft industry which falls under the control of the Department of Supply. I have raised this matter on numerous occasions and I will continue to raise it in this Parliament while the present situation of uncertainty continues. Over at least the last couple of years, and over a much longer period than that, there has been a gradual running down of the industry. Employment in the industry has tended to stabilise in the last few months at a level approximately half what it was some 5 years ago. I think we all readily recognise that this is not an industry where stability of employment and stability of orders are easily attainable. Over a considerable period there have been recurring suggestions of rationalisation of the industry. Earlier this year it appeared that a situation had been reached where rationalisation was almost a fact. It now appears that that scheme for rationalisation has completely disappeared without any real comment from the Minister concerned or the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  and a new scheme for a much more grandiose merger has come to the fore. 
I want to deal first of all with the position of Commonwealth employees in the Government Aircraft Factories, their future, and the uncertainty with which they live on a day to day basis. All of the incentives in the industry at the moment are for those persons who have skills which are vital to this defence industry to look for more secure areas of employment, even if it means transferring into grades in the Public Service to which they would be entitled to transfer but in which their specialist skills would be of no value. The incentives to leave the industry exist because of the total uncertainty about the future employment of people in this industry. Senior staffing arrangements which were published for the proposed merger for the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd. which now apparently has gone into the limbo of forgotten things, indicated that a substantial proportion - nearly half - of the senior staff would disappear from the industry very suddenly. Of course, senior personnel, especially those reaching that age where retirement is in sight - they have Commonwealth superannuation benefits and other benefits and have not received any statement whatsoever which would guarantee a continuation of these benefits in a merged industry - have a great incentive to get out of the industry into areas of government activity where their retirement benefits would be secure. 1 have asked the Government on a number of occasions in this Parliament to make a statement on the future of Commonwealth employees in the aircraft industry guaranteeing their accrued rights. This was done in the case of Bell Bay in Tasmania and there is no reason why it could not be done in the case of the Government Aircraft Factories so that the senior personnel in the industry could rest assured that their accrued rights for superannuation and other benefits, to which their service entitles them, would be protected should the industry be rationalised or should a merger take place whereby it would no longer be a government operation. 
Mir Barnard  -  That would not be difficult. 
Mir SCHOLES - It would appear to be not difficult to make such a statement but such a statement has not been forthcoming from the Government despite the representations I have made to the Minister. I believe that the uncertainty of senior personnel in the aircraft industry is well justified because there appears to be an ebb and flow in Government enthusiasm for this industry. At the moment the Government appears to be pursuing, but not actively, a policy of rationalisation of the aircraft industry into 'a small viable unit*. Those words are not explained in any way but apparently they have some meaning. Obviously this will mean the loss of jobs for some people. The Government seems to have the intention also to ensure that the present Government Aircraft Factories structure will be a minority holding in any merged industry. Therefore the new industry will be beyond Government control. I am seriously concerned about this matter. 
We have had opportunities over the years to construct and tender for aircraft in Aus tralia. It is reasonably well known that at the time of the entry into Australia of Fokker Friendship aricraft for the commercial airlines the Department of Civil Aviation suggested that a production line could be set up for this aircraft in the defence aircraft industry in Australia, and the Government refused to allow it. 
The number of Fokker Friendship aircraft which came into Australia would have made this a viable proposition. It is well known that an Australian designed aircraft which was brought into being by an Australian company, the Victa aircraft company, is now being bought by the defence departments from a company in New Zealand which is manufacturing that aircraft because the Australian Government refused to give the necessary backing for its manufacture in Australia. 
It is a long established fact of life that 9 years ago we ordered the drawings for an aircraft, but at this point of time it would appear that the most useful function of the drawings would be to make a paper dart to throw in this or some other room to remind Ministers of the $300m we have spent on an aircraft of which 12 have entered active service as this stage, but which have not completed 6 months service in total. Five out of the 12 which have gone into active service have been lost. This is most likely the most disastrous combat record of any aircraft ever to be put into active service. Obviously, I am talking about the flying ostrich - the Fill. There is a rumour that the Fills may come to Australia by boat late next year. There is no doubt that no-one will risk flying them across the Pacific. In the areas of basic defence - that is the back-up services which make defence possible - the Government, if it wished, could have taken action. I believe that 'procrastination' is the operative word for planning in the Australian defence aircraft industry. Fortunately, that procrastination can extend for only another 6 weeks. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Jarman)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
It is unfortunate that at the end of his remarks the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  made some unfair statements. One statement which concerns me was that the Opposition had only in the last couple of years found matters relating to regional development. In 1944 the Labor Government established a regional planning scheme in Australia but it was allowed to die after the Liberal Party came to office. I will not say anything further on that. I happen to have a copy of the relevant report. One of the first things I did when I came into this Parliament was to place on notice a motion that there should be a parliamentary committee of inquiry into decentralisation and regional development. The then Minister for National Development said in reply to the motion which I moved that from his experience all committees did was to recommend the expenditure of money and the Government did not think that it could go along with such an idea. That was the Government's position only 3 years ago. In December last year, after about a 2-year wait, I moved another motion on the same subject to the effect that the House of Representatives should set up a select committee to inquire into and report upon the future of provincial cities and regional development. The Government was not prepared in December last year to have a parliamentary committee examine regional development in Australia. The committee would have done ils work by now and have reported to the Parliament. The Bill provides for only one thing - for an authority which will from time to time investigate and report. 
The Minister mentioned the Tariff Board. I just point out to the Minister that some of the reports of the Tariff Board sit on Government desks for years before they come into this Parliament to be dealt with. 
I will not say any more because the passage of this Bill is considered urgent by the Government. But before I conclude I would like to point out that if this matter had been treated as it should have been treated from the time this Government took office then far more would have been achieved and we would not have 'been in the desperate situation that we are in now. We would have been in a situation where we already had, operative, real forms of regional and national planning in this country. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
There is no substance in the point of order. 
The most extraordinary performance was that of the Labor shadow Minister for Social Services, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He could find nothing - good or bad - to talk about in the Government's record. All he could talk about was something in his imagination that the Government might or might not do. He spent all his time denouncing a plan which he said the Government would have. The Government has not announced any such plan. Whether it will do so or not is open. But the honourable member for Oxley could not find anything for which to blame the Government. In his mind, nothing that the Government has done was blameworthy. 
The shadow Minister could find nothing to talk about and nothing for which to blame the Government except something imaginery that the Government might or might not do in the future. He spent all his time trying to break down the New Zealand scheme or, alternatively, saying that it would cost $l,700m to do everything for everybody and that obviously we were not going to implement that scheme. What do honourable members opposite think of the competence of their shadow Minister for Social Services who behaves like this during a serious debate on the Estimates. I think that this is one of the most typical performances that I have heard. 
The honourable member for Oxley has not been terribly fortunate when he has tried to forecast what the Government will or will not do. I remember with some relish how on television, only an hour or two before the presentation of the Budget, he was berating me and saying that there was nothing for anybody in that coming Budget. That is how good a prophet he is. He just does not know his stuff. He is just not competent. I do not think that there is any need to reply to what the Opposition members have had to say in regard to social services because in point of fact they have said nothing. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
by leave- The proposition put forward by the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  is reasonable. But I believe that the actions of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  were completely unforgiveable. The Minister made a number of utterly untrue statements in his speech. Only one Opposition  speaker  remained on the list of speakers. That was the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who rose to speak when the Minister concluded. The honourable member for Robertson has in his electorate more pensioners than has any other member of this Committee. When the Minister concluded his speech, be gagged the debate although time was available for the honourable mem ber for Robertson to speak. I think that the tactic adopted by the Minister was totally unfair. That is why I proposed my motion. I do not believe that it is an honest practice in this Parliament for a Minister to rise, make the type of speech which the Minister for Social Services justmade and then move the gag in order to prevent any honourable member from replying to the lies that he has told to the Committee. I ask for leave to withdraw my motion, as the Leader of the House requested. 
asked the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Have 10,000 acres of natural forest been destroyed by the wood chip industry on the South and Far South Coast of New South Wales. 
If so, are these forests being re-sown. 
Is it intended that a foreign industry with a high mercury discharge rate will be established on the South Coast of New South Wales. 
Have some species of fish already, been lost to this area. 
Has any study been undertaken into the effect on the environment and the effect that deforestation and mercury discbarges could have on the tourist and fishing industries in Eden-Bega districts. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Has a request been received from the Victorian Government for the issue of a stamp to commemorate the centenary of State education in Victoria in January 1973? If a request has been received, can the Postmaster-General advise whether it was accepted or rejected? If no request has been received will the Postmaster-General give urgent consideration to issuing a stamp commemorative of such an important event? 
Order! The honourable member wm resume his seat. He has called attention to the state of the House. That is all he is entitled to do. (Quorum formed.) 
Much has been made of the proposal that the Bill will finish in February, or whatever date it is, next year. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has stated that this is an interim Bill, and that it will remain in force until another measure is prepared which will probably deal more effectively with foreign investment than does this Bill. The subject of overseas investment is a very serious one. Our prosperity depends on it. But we need to curtail it and have some control over it. However, we do not want to stultify the advancement of this country by frightening away overseas investment. What I now want to say is not thi subject of this Bill, but 1 should like to see this Government go a bit further and have some control over local takeovers. The takeover of small companies is becoming a serious problem. We are in a sense destroying free enterprise, competition and so on by allowing this practice to continue. However, I believe that the measure before the House is timely. There is no cause for panic, as obviously the Opposition believes there is. The Opposition wants to press the panic button and rubbish Australia, which it seems quite happy to do. But the Government has the record; it has the score on the board of 23 years in which Australia has never known such a period of expansion and growth in population. Despite the strikes, the industrial lawlessness and all the rest of it we have progressed. 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Have persons eligible under the means test been paid supplementary assistance for rent and told that they must notify the Department of Social Services if they own their home. 
If so, will persons who have been overpaid be required to repay this overpayment. 
Is this method being adopted in order to reduce the work load of officers of bis Department by passing the responsibility on to the pensioner. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Why are war widows denied fringe benefits available to other pensioners with similar incomes. 
I thank the House, and my proposers, for the honour they have accorded me in selecting me as  Chairman  of Committees. Naturally I will endeavour to do my best as  Chairman  of Committees on behalf of the Parliament. As those who have spoken have said, I believe that the Parliament must serve a function in our democracy and unless the Parliament meets this requirement the democratic system will cease to operate effectively. I sincerely hope that I will bc able to fulfil the duties of the office in the manner in which the House would expect. 
Is the Minister for Housing aware of statements made by the Victorian Minister for Housing in which he claims that under the proposed new CommonwealthState housing agreement no houses will be allowed to be built in country areas? Is this statement true? If it is not true, as I am sure it is not, is there any basis upon which such a statement could be made? 
I suggest to the honourable member for Hunter that he should resume his proper seat in the House. I suggest to the honourable member for Chifley that he address the Chair as he is creating great difficulties for the Hansard writer. 
I am very surprised at one of the arguments at least which have been put forward by the 2 spokesmen for the Opposition. I think it is fallacious and trivial for members to rise here and to suggest that the business of Parliament should be conducted in order to provide entertainment for possible radio listeners. Next we will have members of the Opposition suggesting that we should bring Little Pattie in to sing during divisions. That is the level of argument which has been put forward by members of the Opposition. They are saying that if there is nothing entertaining on the radio when a division is to take place then the division should not take place. If they accept the facts of life of Parliament then they will not call divisions. I hope they would not accept that argument but that is the sort of argument they are putting forward. 
Members of the Opposition have suggested that there is some parallel between the position of Senate Ministers relative to the old Cabinet room and Ministers of this House to this Cabinet room. I would suggest to any betting man on the Opposition that the oldest man in this Parliament could get from the old Cabinet room to the Senate, which was a very short distance- 
is the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  suggesting that Cabinet should meet in a committee room? It is nowhere near as far and I think the honourable member is aware of that. The new Cabinet room is at least 100 yards further from the doors of this chamber than the old Cabinet room was from the doors of the Senate. It is a piffling argument that is put forward, that the Parliament is being destroyed by the addition of one minute to the time for which the bells will ring. We are all aware that the time taken up by divisions can be excessive and as a former member of the Opposition I am also aware that Oppositions - this Opposition will do it too - use divisions as a stonewalling device when it suits them. It is part of the tactics of an Opposition in Parliament. So do not let us have crocodile tears about the time that will bc taken up. When it suits the Opposition it will use divisions in the same way as the previous Opposition did to block the Government in this House. It is one of the legitimate tactics available to an Opposition and I do not think anyone would deny it to them. 
What is sought here is a temporary measure to meet an unusual circumstance. One wonders what sort of argument we would hear if a decision was taken to house some of the members in the West Block or East Block. Would they then argue that by giving honourable members time to get from those places to the House for a division we would be destroying the institution of Parliament? I quite strongly suggest that any action of the House which denies any member the opportunity to be present at a division at which he wishes to be present is an attack on the parliamentary institution. If there is any doubt that honourable members located legitimately in a part of this building while carrying out their duties as members will be able to be present in this chamber because of the limitation on the time that the bells ring when a division is to take place, it is the responsibility and the duty of this House to make sure that the time for the ringing of the bells is extended sufficiently to enable those members to be present. It has always been the practice for older members who have disabilities to be housed close to the chamber. 
I do not think I should comment on that. There are some very interesting sidelights to it, such as honourable members complaining that Bills providing salaries for members which they passed when in government are not adequate now that they are in Opposition. But that is neither here nor there. One such member :s the Leader of the third party in this House. Those members thought the provision was all right when we were in Opposition. The argument we have at the moment is whether the bells will ring for 3 minutes while extensions are being made to a portion of Parliament 
House. If it is to be a permanent feature then the matter must be considered by the Standing Orders Committee as it was at the behest of Government supporters during the last Parliament. So it is not something that is totally foreign to the Opposition. When it was in government it put the suggestion to the last Parliament but it was not acceptable to the Ministry. The then Leader of the House said that it would take too much time to complete a division. Government supporters have put forward the belief that there -should be a 3 minute ringing of the bells. This is a temporary provision and only a temporary provision and as such I think should be adopted by the House. 
 1 can remember saying the same thing in this House for S years, and some of my predecessors said it for 20 years. I sincerely hope that the honourable member will be spared to have the same opportunity at least for 20 years. 
I suggest that the House adopt this proposal and I do so because, as I have said, it is essential that the House provide rules that make it absolutely certain that every honourable member has the opportunity, if he wishes to do so, to be in the House and vote. 
I have just said that I said it. If the honourable member's ears were all right he would have known that. I think that what in fact we are saying is that the Opposition, unused to the role it has to play, believes it has to oppose everything. I can assure honourable members opposite that it is not necessary to oppose everything. Trifling opposition has been put forward to this matter although there may be legitimate debate and legitimate opposition on the other matter that is to come before us. However, I do not want to discuss that. The proposal before us at the moment is purely a formality to meet the. circumstances created by the extensions to this building which are taking place. I think that the opposition that has been put forward is, to say the least, trifling. 
I take the point of order. The honourable member is in fact replying to matters which have been raised in the debate. I ask him to make the reference to those matters relatively short and to deal with the subject matter of the debate. 
There is a real principle in the action that the Government is now taking. It might appear trivial, It is possible for the Government to show that it is trivial. What is important about changing the time for the ringing of the bells from 2 minutes to 3 minutes? A principle is involved because there is a long standing convention in this Parliament and in Westminster-style parliaments around the world that matters relating to Standing Orders are changed by agreement after they have been considered by the Standing Orders Committee. The Government says that this is merely a suspension. But does anyone really believe that? By suspending this standing order or another standing order the Government can whittle away the rights of an Opposition and the rights of private members and make the Parliament completely subservient to the majority party. That will not serve this Parliament or this democracy well. Earlier we heard the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  a frustrated  Speaker,  trying to suggest that it was a temporary suspension. I believe that these arrangements would become permanent. What is the purpose of this? Is it merely to serve the interests of the Government? I do not think that the real reason has been mentioned by the Government. The reason for it is that the Government has a lack of confidence in the ability of its own 
Whip to maintain the support of this House. It is fearful that, with a vigilant Opposition, the Government would be counted out through its inability to maintain the interest of its members in the business of this House. 
Some highly embarrassing and damaging matters were raised in the adjournment debate last night. Therefore, the very next day there is  a  motion to gag and restrict permanently the adjournment debates as a result of the success of the adjournment debate last night on  a  matter that was likewise highly embarrassing, especially for the Prime Minister aud members of his Ministry. 
Order! the honourable member is debating the next item on the notice paper. 
It is with some surprise that I find myself speaking in this debate. During most of the afternoon and evening we have heard Liberal Party speakers particularly telling us how the Government was depriving them of their right to speak in this Parliament. It is now 10 p.m. on the second day of the sitting of Parliament. The next 2 honourable members listed to speak from the Opposition side, both of whom are members of the Liberal Party, have not been able to acquire sufficient energy to arrive at the House to speak in this Address-in-Reply debate. (Quorum formed). It is amazing that members of the Opposition, who are so desperate for opportunities to speak in this chamber, are not even able to be present. 
The programme which was outlined in the Governor-General's Speech is one of consid erable vision and one which will bring to Australia the type of changes which the electorate desires. It will give the Australian people the opportunity to express their views as Australians . which they so much desire. They are sick and tired of being told by frightened governments that they are not capable and do not have the capacity to stand on their feet as people. This Government believes that Australians are able to stand on their feet as people and do not have to crawl or kowtow to any people in the world. The programme set out in the Governor-General's Speech provides for welfare benefits which will bring some dignity to many longforgotten sections of the Australian community. It is an unfortunate habit, particularly of honourable members who have never had to struggle for ' employment or . income, tq describe people. . who are. unable to find employment as bludgers and loafers. Many people are willing, and able to -work but suitable employment cannot be found for them. These people will at least now be treated with partial dignity. There are many other people who will have a role in society as human beings rather than the role which the previous Government imposed upon them. I seek leave to continue. my. remarks at a.later;date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
On the last night of sitting we had the rather remarkable situation in which Opposition members, who had cried crocodile tears all day about being denied the right to speak in this Parliament, were not present to continue the debate on this subject. Two Government supporters had to be called successively. It would appear that wanting the opportunity and taking it are 2 different matters for the Opposition Parties. They could not even find enough speakers or else they were too- 
Order! The honourable member for Kooyong knows that he is not permitted to debate across the table. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 5 measures? As there is no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
In the last 10 minutes we have had absolute proof of the reasons why the Australian people felt that this nation could survive only with a change of government. I thank the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer)  for the great assistance he obviously rendered to the Australian Labor Party during the election campaign. I hope that in any future election campaign he will be prepared to make that type of speech in public everywhere that we can possibly get him on a platform for us, because no self respecting Australian would vote for a party that had the type of philosophy we just heard in that speech. The honourable member commenced his speech with a complaint about the lack of time provided in the Address-in-Reply debate. There were 57 speakers on the Address-in-Reply and the debate lasted for 17i hours. As late as an hour ago the honourable member's name was not on the speakers list. That may not have been his fault. I do not know. The fact is that it was not on the list. 
The honourable member for Bennelong claimed that he was denied the democratic right to speak in the House. 
I am merely pointing out that there were 57 speakers and 174 hours of debate on the Address-in-Reply, which is probably one of the longest debates to have taken place in this House for a number of years. The honourable member's name was not on the list on the table an hour ago. That is by the way. The point is that it is always the practice of honourable members to complain about being gagged. The honourable member for Bennelong did not once express sympathy for the honourable member for Wills, who is now the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  and who was gagged possibly more times than any man in the history of Parliament. 
I do not think that the former honourable member for Sturt was here long enough to acquire the record that the honourable member for Wills has on this subject. I rose initially to speak on what I consider to be a very serious matter which reflects on the dignity and standing of this Parliament. It is not a matter which I treat lightly. In the last few days attacks have been made on honourable members because they exercised the right to make an affirmation instead of swearing an oath on the Bible. This is a right which was established for members of Parliament after one of the longest and most bitter struggles in the history of parliamentary democracy. Yet men are being vilified because they have exercised their religious freedom in this country to do what they consider to be right. It would be dishonest for a person to swear an oath if he did not place any credence in that oath. 
This is a very serious matter and should be treated as such. I hope that this practice of trying to whip up religious hatreds within the Parliament does not continue and that those honourable members who have adopted this practice will realise that this is not the manner in which to conduct themselves in the national Parliament. I point out for the information of those honourable members who are not aware of it that, when a person will not swear an oath on the bible, it is not always a sign that that person is an atheist. In the previous Parliament one honourable member who is a minister of religion refused to swear an oath on the Bible because he had a deep religious conviction that it was a sacrilegious thing to misuse the Bible by swearing an oath on it. He took an affirmation because of his religious beliefs. I hope that no one will suggest that that gentleman was not a Christian. 
We have a perfect example of the results of the pursuit of religious division for political or any other purposes. 1 hope that the honourable members concerned will not appear in this Parliament as they have done in the last few days. If any political party - I do nol exempt any political party - tries to develop support for itself by religious vilification, it will suffer the same fate as that suffered by a political candidate in a by-election in 1967 when a major spokesman for a political party tried to raise religious issues in the election campaign. 
This is a serious matter, and I ask the leaders of those parties involved to speak to the honourable members concerned and request them to refrain from making this type of attack. They gain no political mileage whatsoever from such attacks and they do this Parliament and the nation a serious disservice. 
Is the Minister for Overseas Trade aware that Canadian and United States manufactured carpets are being offered on the Australian market at prices below those for Australian manufactured carpets because of changes in currency valuation? Has the Minister had representations from the industry? Can he indicate any action which is being taken by the Government to protect the jobs of many thousands of Australians? 

The honourable member for Curtin sought to take a point of order during the ringing of the bells following attention being directed to the state of the House. I now ask the honourable member to state his point of order. 
Is the Minister for Services and Property aware of statements which have been made outside the House that the proposed amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act are the first substantial alterations to that Act since 1902? Is he also aware of claims that by taking the area considerations out of the Act large electorates will be disadvantaged, despite the fact that the electorate of Kalgoorlie has the third largest population of any electorate in Australia? 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is the Minister for Secondary Industry aware of allegations that subStandard carpets which are banned in the United States of America because of their high fire risk are being imported into Australia from that country? Are there any existing regulations or standards on the importation of goods which prevent goods which are dangerous to the consumer being brought into Australia? 
I wish to speak on a matter which has become the subject of some fairly irresponsible debate around the country in the last couple of weeks and which has now reached a stage where the level of debate is reaching dangerous proportions for the future of several maritime ports in Australia. Over the last 2 or 3 weeks, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made a number of charges in this House about the inactivity of the Federal Government and its failure to prevent employers of waterfront labour from changing the means by which the idle time levies are collected in minor ports. 
The Victorian Government, which is acting purely in an election situation, has no power or authority in this field but has a Minister running around the country making all sorts of irresponsible statements. I refer to the Stop Press article in this afternoon's Melbourne Herald' as an illustration of the degree of irresponsibility displayed by the Victorian Government on this matter. The Minister foi 
State Development in Victoria said that the Victorian Government would investigate what action it could take within its legislative power to ensure that the people of western Victoria could send their wool and other products through the port of Portland. The report says that his Government was taking a strong stand against the Commonwealth Government on inflated levies on shipping at Portland. Last Wednesday, in the State Parliament, where he was answerable to other members, the Minister for State Development said that he acknowledged that the present situation was not the responsibility of the present Federal Government. However, for public consumption he now is reported as indicating that the Federal Government is responsible for the situation. 
I should like to deal with this matter on a far more serious plane than has been the case in the past. The honourable member for Wannon quite clearly is grandstanding. He was a member of a government which, without protest passed through this Parliament legislation which created the present situation. The Waterside Workers Federation of Australia did not want the abolition of the general industry levy which had applied prior to 1967. The Federation did not want the responsibility for the collection of the levy taken away from the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority and placed in the hands of employers. This was done against the protests of employees in the industry; it was done according to the basic philosophy on which the Liberal Party governed, namely, that the government should not act in matters of relationships between employees and employers. 
At the time, the now Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said in this House that it was the Government's aim to place the stevedoring industry on the same basis as private industry, whereby employers were responsible for the employment conditions of their employees. Honourable members will be fully aware that the stevedoring industry is not a normal area of employment. In order that the House will fully understand what has occurred, I point out that, arising out of the Woodward Report of 1969, Australian ports fell into 2 categories - ports where permanent labour was employed and ports where the casual labour situation remained. 
The levy, which now is the cause of such consternation, was not struck on all ports. It was struck only on those ports where casual labour was involved. The purpose of the levy was to meet the cost of paying minimum guaranteed wages where the employment available did not enable waterside workers to earn the minimum guaranteed wage. It does not require an Albert Einstein to work out that ports with low rates of usage will be the ports which require the greatest amount of making up of the guaranteed minimum wage. The result of this policy, which was accepted by the Government and handed over for the employers of waterside labour to control, was that ports such as Geelong, Burnie and one or 2 other ports such as Albany and Bunbury in Western Australia were required to add to the costs of labour an amount per man-hour sufficient to pay the idle time levy in other ports such as Portland, Cairns and a number of other ports around Australia. In fact, what was happening was that ports which were in direct competition with capital city ports - Geelong's main competitor for work load is not Portland; it is Melbourne - were charged a levy of 40c in order to subsidise minor ports. 
In principle, I would not object to this if it were applied uniformly on all ports and if a general industry levy were collected by the Government's own authority, the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, to be paid to waterside workers where they did not earn the mimimum guaranteed wage. If this were done, it would be fair. It is a solution which I now strongly recommend to this Government. But what was proposed by the Victorian Government in the Victorian Parliament last week and what has been proposed by the honourable member for Wannon is a solution which would require this Government to cripple ports such as Burnie. Geelong and Albany so that idle time can be paid in Portland. I think we should understand exactly what we are talking about in this situation. 
The honourable member for Wannon denied a statement which was made by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  last week that work had fallen off in the port of Portland. 1 have pointed out that the honourable member had used annual figures over a number of years to prove that work loads had been increasing. However, in the first 2 months of 1973, when the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour decided to change the levy system to one where each port was responsible for paying its own labour - I would have thought that this would have lent itself to Liberal Party philosophy - only 4 ships called at the port of Portland and they loaded something like 3,000 tons of cargo. In the same period in 1972, 16 ships called at the port of Portland and loaded in excess of 100,000 tons of cargo. So for the honourable member for Wannon to suggest that the situation at the port of Portland was not precipitated by a falling off in the rate of cargo shipped through that port is to mislead this House. The fact is that less than 3 per cent - it is nearer H per cent - of the loading which went through that port in the first 2 months of 1972 went through it in the first 2 months of this year. 
The solution to the problem is not to close any ports or place an unfair burden on other ports which are in a better, though not dissimilar, position to the port of Portland and which are also struggling for survival. There is a concerted effort by the conference lines to close down every minor port in Australia and some of the capital city ports. The solution to the immediate problem of Portland which is being bandied around by t he honourable member for Wannon and supported by the Victorian Government will facilitate the closing down of those ports by the conference lines. Quite clearly it is the responsibility of this Federal Parliament to enact legislation which will ensure that the Commonwealth of Australia decides through which ports and under what conditions our goods will be shipped and if the conference lines seek to continue the monopoly which they have had on our shipping over a number of years they should be required to comply with those conditions which the Australian Government lays down. But to suggest that ports such as Geelong in Victoria, Burnie in Tasmania, and Albany and Bunbury in Western Australia should pay a levy which is 20 times what they are required to pay to meet idle time or the unearned portion of the minimum guarantee in order to subsidise smaller ports while the major ports in the capital cities do not meet this levy in any shape or form is eventually to destroy not only these smaller ports but also the intermediate ports and to assist the conference lines to achieve their objective of reducing the number of Australian ports to two or three major ports. 
Already the major proportion of goods produced in the Portland area which are to be shipped by sea are railed to Melbourne for loading onto ships. Already a substantial proportion of goods which could be shipped from the port of Geelong is railed to Melbourne for loading onto ships. Ports which have adequate facilities to handle these goods are not being utilised. Shippers prefer and are obviously prepared to meet the cost of transporting their goods by rail or road to the capital city ports for loading onto ships. 1 ask that the Government give serious consideration to this problem and reject out of hand the suggestions which are being made, fostered by the Victorian Government for political purposes, that the solution to the problem of Portland is to close the port of Geelong. This is the- end result of the proposal which the honourable member for Wannon has put forward and the proposals which have been put forward in the Victorian Parliament by supporters of the Victorian Government. This will not assist the situation in Portland. All that will happen will be that the goods which could be shipped through Geelong will be transferred to Melbourne for shipment and the situation in the minor ports then will be even worse. 
The only solution to the problem is the reintroduction of a general levy on the whole of waterside labour to be collected by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, as was done prior to 1967 under a system which was abandoned with the full support of the honourable member for Wannon and other members of the Liberal Party in this House because they believed that the employers had the sole right to do so. The accusation made by a Victorian Minister that this is something which was done by the Commonwealth Government is utterly untrue. The fact of the matter is that this change in the levy system, and 1 can tell the House the extent of the change, has meant that the uniform 40c which was charged on all ports where casual labour was employed has been varied so that at the port of Geelong it has dropped to 2c while at the port of Portland it has increased to SI. 25. This is a serious blow to a port such as Portland and the solution to the problem is to reintroduce the general levy. 
I think it is incumbent upon me to deal with one other matter before I conclude. At question time I asked the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  a question in relation to the importation into Australia of overseas carpets. The Minister indicated that he was not aware of the matters I had raised, namely, that carpets which had been banned 
In the United States because of the high fire risk in buildings in which they were laid were currently being exported to Australia. I am assured by carpet manufacturers and textile industry representatives in Australia that regulations have recently been introduced in the United States under which carpets must meet a minimum fire safety standard and that carpets which had previously been manufactured and which did not meet these standards are now being exported to Australia at prices with which the Australian industry cannot compete. Unless there is a very substantial reappraisal of the standards required for the entry into Australia of this type of material the Australian public in the next few weeks will be sold material which is a danger to those people who place them in their homes and especially to people in major buildings in which this material is used. I raised this matter with the Minister today because I consider it to be extremely important. It is especially important because the Australian industry could well have its future existence threatened by the dumping in Australia of substandard goods which are not saleable in the country of their origin. I ask the Government to give very serious consideration to this and to examine fully the claims which are being made by the Australian carpet industry. This is a very serious matter. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Wannon during his remarks said that I had advocated and was actively supporting action to close the port of Portland. That statement is totally untrue. If the honourable member had taken the trouble to examine the remarks I made in this House only yesterday he would be aware that his remarks were untrue. What I have said is that there is no advantage to the port of Portland in deliberately advocating policies which could close both the port of Portland and the port of Geelong. That is what the honourable member has done. 
We have heard a speech which ill befits an honourable member who represents a party which begins all its electoral speeches by professing its belief in the principle of one vote one value, but in practice it is demonstrably in favour of a principle which elects conservative members to Parliament, irrespective of how necessary it is to rig electoral boundaries in order to do so. The House should consider the record of the parties which are opposing this Bill. There is an upper House in every Parliament in Australia with the exception of Queensland. Elections for upper Houses in Australia are carried out in a manner which prevents the majority of the electorate from electing the majority of the members. This principle is protected to the death by the conservative members of this Parliament. When did one Liberal Party member of this Parliament stand up and outline the situation in the Upper House of South Australia where a party able to obtain 35 per cent of the votes is able to obtain 80 per cent of the seats? That is not a bad gerrymander for a party which claims that every vote should be equal. 
It is a Federal matter. 1 will deal with the honourable member in one moment. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  have both professed that they believe that electors are equal, with some reservations. I am merely pointing out the records of the parties which they represent. If the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  believes that the actions of his party, supported by members of his party in other States, are not relevant to this debate then I suggest that he has no idea of what is relevant in a political situation. 
In order that the honourable member for Wimmera will not feel left out I should like to point out that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Country Party have said that there is no need for a redistribution at this time. I point out to the House that at the time of the next Federal election, if there is not a redistribution before then, the honourable member for Wimmera, together with the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  will represent fewer electors in this Parliament than the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie).  In other words the honourable member for Wimmera is supporting a proposition where every elector in his electorate has 2 votes in this Parliament to the one vote of the honourable member for Diamond Valley. 
The honourable member is well aware that the electorate of the honour able member for Bass  (Mr Barnard)  is under the quota because of a situation created at the time of the framing of the Federal Constitution at a convention from which the Labor Party was excluded. We must get it clear in our minds that it was fixed by conservative parties to protect conservative parties. 
I suggest that the honourable member is childish if he believes that such a referendum would even get off the ground. We could not even carry a referendum to limit the size of the Senate. 
We tried, and I think it was carried in one State. This Bill concerns the representation of people in this Parliament. I do not believe that this Parliament or any other Parliament has a mandate, a charter or a responsibility to decide that a person shall have a vote according to the size of his backyard. That is what is being proposed at the moment. God help us, if we accept that proposition. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  will have 100 votes in this place. The Country Party wants the size of a man's backyard to be the real criterion of electoral boundaries. The Country Party has said that it is necessary to have electorates of a size which will enable the member adequately to represent the electorate. I should like to agree with that proposition, but unfortunately the record of redistribution under Country Party Ministers does not support that principle. 
I shall now deal with the redistribution for New South Wales, the legislation for which was passed through this Parliament in 1968. In looking at the size of the various electorates I find that the electorate of Richmond, which just by chance happens to be the electorate of the Leader of the Country Party whose position in this Parliament is of some special significance, as we found out last night- 
If the Country Party were given the right to draw the electoral boundaries there is no doubt that he would be Prime Minister. It would be similar to the position in Queensland where the Liberal Party - which at least receives about 30 per cent of the votes - cannot obtain more seats than the Country Party which has 19 per cent of the votes and has a Country Party Premier imposed on it by a rigged electoral system and  not  by the will of the people. I return now to my remarks concerning the electorate of Richmond, which is one of the outback electorates covering 2,600 square miles. Members of the Country Party say that it should have a smaller number of electors. It is not a small electorate and  it  is not a big one. The enrolment of the electorate at the last redistribution was 49,460. I ask honourable members to remember that figure. The seat of Macquarie, which just by coincidence happens to berepresented by a Labor member, was thought not to need the same facilities  for  a representative to enable him to attend to the needs of a far spread out electorate, an electorate which because of its terrain is extremely difficult to traverse. The then government gave the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  not 49,500 electors as happened in the case of the Leader of the Country Party, but 56,000 electors, which is 4,000 electors over a quota. 
How many of the electors in the electorate of Richmond live on the southern half  of  the Gold Coast? Practically all  of  them. The honourable member should go there and have a look. There were 56,000 voters in an electorate covered by a Labor member  -  4,000 voters above the quota. That electorate covers 5,600 square miles, which is more than double the area of the electorate of the right honourable member for Richmond. 
Before I tell honourable members why that was doneI point out that the electorate of Macquarie has grown at twice the rate of the electorate of Richmond in the number enrolled since the last redistribution. This was not a declining area but a growth area and it was growing faster than the electorate which the Country Party conveniently made small for its leader. I will explain why it was done: To have brought the electorate of Macquarie into line with the electorates which immediately adjoin it - those electorates had under 50,000 voters - would have upset the balance of the Country Party electorates in the area and several of its electorates would have been threatened with a Labor member. That is why it was done. There was no other reason. Let us not kid ourselves about what is going on when members of the Country Party try to justify the claim that a redistribution is on the basis of area. 

The time available to me in this debate does not allow me to traverse a whole series of electoral matters. 
-I would like also to draw attention to the situation in Victoria. The electorates represented in the Upper House in Victoria became so far out of balance that one electorate had 300,000 electors and another electorate had 46,000 electors, and it was quite obvious, even to a conservative government, that this sort of situation could not continue. It just happened to be convenient to the Liberal Party to get another couple of seats in the Upper House to give itself a majority and rid itself of the Country Party, which the Country Party, because it was a little bit naive, let the Liberal Party do. But in order to get a Bill through the House to approve the appointment of commissioners for a redistribution the Liberal Party allowed to be extracted from it by the Country Party an undertaking that Country Party electorates would not be redistributed, so that in Victoria we had the situation that the Upper House metropolitan electorates were redistributed, thus giving the Liberal Party 2 more seats and a majority in the House. The country electorates, predominantly represented by the Country Party, were not subject to redistribution. So we now have the situation again where we have electorates of 40,000 people and electorates of 200,000 people represented in the Upper House in Victoria. The unfortunate thing for the Country Party was that it was not half as shrewd as  Sir Henry  Bolte. He did the Country Party like a dinner, because he had inserted in his Act approving a redistribution a provision that the proposed redistribution to be presented to the Parliament had to be passed by only one House of the Parliament. The Country Party's majority was in the Upper House and the Liberals, with their 35 per cent of the vote in Victoria, had an absolute majority in the Lower House. They still do, and they still have only about 55 per cent of the vote. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, just before he sat down, made a claim that in every election except the 1954 election the party which has obtained the majority of votes has won the election. That statement is not true. In 1961 the Australian Labor Party obtained a greater percentage of votes than did the combined Government parties and their supporters. I note that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred to the parties supporting the Government, amongst which I assume he includes the DemocraticLabor Party. He claimed thai the. Government parties obtained a greater number of votes than did the Australian Labor Party in every election except the one in 1954. That also  iยซ  not true. In 1969 the Labor Party, with the parties which supported it- 
The Communist Party gets so few votes that it is the most insignificant party in Australia. 
The Nazi Party supported you too, but I do not think you are proud of it and I do not think you welcomed the support. The Australia Party has received a significant number of votes in elections it has contested and it has directed its preferences to the Australian Labor Party. If it is good enough for the Liberal Party to claim that DLP votes are Liberal votes, it is reasonable for us to claim that Australia Party votes were votes in support of a Labor government. On that criterion in 1969 we had a substantial majority over the Government parties. We did not win the election. 
No electoral system can be perfect. No system of redistribution can be perfect. We all are aware of that. But I think it should be the responsibility of a House of Parliament to seek, to the extent that it is within its control, to ensure that persons who are elected to this Parliament represent fairly equal numbers of people. It is not the problems of social services, the problems that someone has with the Rural Bank or the problems of getting jobs or these things that Parliament is all about. Attending to these problems are jobs which members do because it is part of their electoral work. The Parliament is all about the government of the country, deciding the laws of the country. It is absolutely essential that every person has the right to an equal say in the election of representatives to the Parliament. As I said earlier, if a redistribution does not take place before the next elections we will have a situation where in one electorate a vote will be worth more than twice as much as a vote in another electorate. 1 am not having a shot in any way at the members concerned. Al the time of the last redistribution one of those electorates was represented by a Liberal, and I do not think anyone, except the honourable member who won the seat and his campaign committee, even dreamt there would be a change of representative, f am pointing out that represented in this Parliament we will have 2 electorates which together will be numerically smaller than another electorate. 
There has been during the course of the debate so far as a lot of pointing of the bone at various allowances, tolerances, in the number of people who may comprise an electorate. The proposals which are before the House would allow a tolerance of 20 per cent in the number of electors  -  10 per cent up or 10 per cent down on the number deemed desirable in one electorate. It would be necessary for 25 per cent of the electorates in any one State to exceed that tolerance of 20 per cent before a redistribution would become necessary. I do not think that is likely to happen every 3 years. Even though under the tolerance of 20 per cent up and 20 per cent down that was applied to the last distribution no redistribution has become necessary in any State other than Western Australia at the moment, by the time the next election is held it is almost certain that in some of the 
States enough electorates will have gone outside the 20 per cent tolerance either way to make a redistribution necessary. 
One other remark made in this debate is worthy of comment. The Leader of the Country Party made the claim, and the Country Party regularly makes it, that it is representation of country areas that is necessary for the development of those areas. He also stated that at the time of Federation twothirds of the members of this House represented country areas. The record speaks for itself. Eighty per cent of them now represent metropolitan areas - more than two thirds. So it is not representation - in this or in any other Parliament - which provides for balanced population throughout the country, lt is the will to achieve balanced population which will achieve it. There is no evidence whatsoever that in the last 23 years, during which time the Country Party is accused of having dominated the Government - if that is true it is io the eternal shame of the Liberal Party - any greater growth took place in country areas than took place in the 10 years prior to the Liberal-Country Party Government coming into office. In fact. I believe the reverse is true. I believe it is significant that very little growth has taken place in country areas under a government of which the Country Party was a part. 1 support the Bill. I believe that it is not unreasonable that a person should have the expectation that when he goes to the place where he casts his vote that vote will be of the same value as the vote of another person. 1 think it is unreasonable that when a person goes to the ballot box he shall have a vote which is valued according to the electorate in which he lives, not the country in which he lives. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. In the course of a statement to the Victorian Parliament - a statement which is a transcription of inaccuracies - the Victorian Minister for Housing referred to a question 1 had asked in this House. I quote directly from his statement as follows: 
In fact, 1 understand a question was asked in the House of Representatives on Tuesday of  Mr Johnson  by the Socialist member for Geelong,  Mr Scholes,  as to whether my statement was correct that Commonwealth policy would cut across the program of providing homes for decentralised industries. 

 Mr Speaker, apart from my name I can see no other fact which is accurate in the whole of that sentence. Firstly, my question was asked on the Wednesday. Secondly, as the word 'Socialist' is used with a capital letter it implies that I am a member of a political party other than the Australian Labor Party, and this is not true. Thirdly, I do not represent the electorate of Geelong; I represent the electorate of Corio. Fourthly, in order to clarify the misrepresentation, I repeat that the Victorian Minister claimed that I asked a question as to whether his,  Mr Dickie's,  statement was correct that the Commonwealth policy would cut across a program of providing houses for decentralised industry. The questionI had asked was not relevant to that subject matter, which concerns an entirely different housing scheme. The question I asked was: 
Is the Minister for Housing aware of statements made by the Victorian Minister for Housing in which he claims that under the proposed new CommonwealthState housing agreement no houses will be allowed to be built in country areas? Is this statement true? If it is not true, as I am sure it is not, is there any, basis upon which such a statement could be made? 
The House will be quite clear and can have no doubt that the Minister for Housing in the 
Victorian Parliament was deliberately misrepresenting me and the question 1 asked in order to provide himself with Aunt Sallies. 
Order! Is it the wish of the Committee to take the Bill as a whole? 
Order! I suggest that the honourable member should address- 
Order! I suggest that the honourable member wait until I call him. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="083131197304050_32_0.jpg"></graphic>

In addition, the Government of Luxembourg was approached in June 1972 through the Australian Ambassador to Belgium but the response was that there was no concrete interest in the project. Representatives of the Government of Cyprus in London expressed interest but there had been no substantial developments by the time of the Australian general elections in December 1972. 
Portability will now be provided without any requirement for reciprocal arrangements with other countries. That is, a person drawing Australian pension can take that pension right anywhere in the world after 10 years Australian residence in the case of age pension, and after 5 years of such residence in the case of invalid pension where the invalidity occurred in Australia, otherwise after 10 years' residence in Australia. No period of residence is required in the case of widowhood where the couple were permanently resident in Australia when the husband died. This is truly a substantially generous improvement on pension portability practices to the present. lt comes in recognition of the special rights and needs of migrants in this country - justice too long denied them. 
For too long migrants have been told by past governments of their valuable contribution to the development of this nation. But for equally long too little has been contributed by those governments towards the special needs of so many migrants especially during their difficult period of adjusting to a new, alien and not always hospitable society. Too often they have been seen as and treated as front line fodder for our industrial system as the disproportionate representation for some migrant groups among the semi-skilled and unskilled work classifications indicates. This disproportionate representation in these employment categories incidentally is also evidence of the socio-economic upward mobility which their presence has allowed many Australian residents of longer standing. 
The presence of migrants in this country has been valuable to this nation and has given it and its people a far better future than would have been achieved otherwise. But there is much that should have been done to assist many migrants and we intend remedying this neglect. What is proposed in this Bill is only a small part of what has to be done - of what should have been done for too long. 
Now let me give some detail about this Bill. Under the Bill, pensioners who have gained the right to receive an Australian age, invalid or widow's pension by satisfying the appropriate residence qualification by actual residence in Australia including periods of absence counted as residence under the Social Services Act but excluding periods of residence in Britain or New Zealand treated as residence in Australia by virtue of our reciprocal agreements with those countries, will be able to continue to receive their pensions overseas at the rates current, and under the conditions applicable to the payment of pensions, in Australia. Wives' pensions will also be payable overseas. 
The Government's proposals for unrestricted portability of pensions will apply to pensioners leaving Australia on or after the date on which the enabling legislation becomes operative on receiving the Royal Assent. It is necessary to draw the eligibility line somewhere and retrospectivity would have been difficult to apply equitably. This cut-off point is consistent with the principle incorporated in legislation introduced by the previous Government providing for pension portability under reciprocal arrangements made with other countries. 
Moreover, the Government's proposals render unnecessary the provisions of the present legislation enabling payment to be made in respect of a period of up to 30 weeks on a pensioner's return to Australia after a temporary absence, and for the payment of pensions to pensioners who go to live in an external territory. Of course, the rights of such pensioners who are absent from Australia on the date this legislation becomes operative will be fully protected. 
Pensioners receiving their pensions in Malta, Italy, Greece and Turkey in accordance with the reciprocal pension portability agreements entered into under the legislation introduced by the previous Government will not only have their existing rights preserved but will be brought within the new provisions that is they will be able to continue to receive their Australian pensions but the requirement that they live in one of the 4 countries mentioned will no longer apply. Action has already been taken to advise the governments of Malta, Italy, Greece and Turkey of the Australian wish to terminate the agreements made with those countries which, as far as Australian pensioners are concerned, will become redundant. 
Australian pensioners going to Britain or New Zealand for permanent residence at present lose their Australian pensions but may receive, under our comprehensive reciprocal agreements on social security with those countries, the pensions of the country in which they are living. Australian residence, for this purpose, is translated into British contributions or New Zealand residence respectively. These agreements thus require review in the light of the Government's decision to pay Australian pensions abroad and the necessary action has already been initiated. 
The reciprocal pension portability provisions currently incorporated in the Social Services Act permit the grant of a pension outside Australia only where a pensioner has a continuing entitlement and where a 'transfer' from one type of social service pension to another is involved. These provisions will be retained but also extended as I will indicate in a moment. Complementary legislation is being introduced to permit the payment overseas of pensions payable under section 92 of the Repatriation Act. The Bill now before the House will permit a pensioner receiving such a pension overseas to transfer to an age, invalid, wife's or widow's pension payable under the Social Services Act. The pensioner medical service will, as at present, continue to be available only in Australia, as will the concessions provided by the Commonwealth in respect of radio and television licences and telephone rentals. However, funeral benefits and the special pension payable for 12 weeks after the death of one member of a pensioner married couple will be available for pensioners receiving their pensions overseas. 
Pensioners overseas will not receive supplementary assistance as the eligibility conditions could not properly be applied; in this respect the Bill maintains the situation incorporated in the pensions portability legislation enacted last year. However, when each member of a married pensioner couple in Australia is qualified for supplementary assistance, the rate payable to each is half that which could be payable if only one were a pensioner. The Bill makes provision for the increase of supplementary assistance to the single rate, subject to eligibility in other respects, to the member of a pensioner couple remaining in Australia when his spouse is absent. 
Human nature being what it is, cases could conceivably arise where people who have previously lived in Australia might aim to return to Australia foi the specific purpose of receiving a pension, after which they would again leave this country. As a deterrent to such action, the Bill provides that where a person applies for a pension within 12 months of his return to Australia any pension which may be granted will not be payable overseas if he leaves Australia within a year of the date of his last return to this country. It is realised, however, that unforeseen circumstances, for example, the death of a husband or wife, could arise which would provide a bona fide reason for a change in plans to reside in Australia. In these circumstances the requirement of 12 months residence in Australia before the pension can be transferred overseas will be waived. 
As 1 have indicated, pensioners who have gained the right to receive an Australian social service pension by satisfying the appropriate residence qualification or who are receiving a wife's pension will be able to continue to receive their pension overseas without restriction. While it will benefit mainly aged, invalid and widowed migrants who wish to return to their former homelands, cither permanently or temporarily, it will apply equally to all pensioners. It will thus in future be possible for pensioners to visit, or live with, their children or other relatives who have settled or are working overseas. This Bill marks another instalment in the implementation of the Whitlam Government's progressive policy in the social welfare area and will be followed by many other measures designed to ensure that we resume our rightful place as a pioneer and leader in this field. I commend the Bill to the House. (Quorum formed) 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Street)  adjourned. 

Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The child migrant education program was mounted in April 1970 with the intention of providing special English instruction to enable migrant children with English language difficulties to achieve a sufficient command of English for them to join fully in normal classroom activities. To this end, the Australian Government provides funds for State and independent school authorities to pay the salaries of the necessary additional teachers and to purchase special language teaching equipment, lt also helps to provide in-service training for these teachers and makes learning and teaching materials available. The State and independent school authorities have been responsible for deciding, within the limits of the program, which schools required the services of additional English language teachers; for recruiting the teachers; and for finding the space for these teachers to conduct classes. Altogether throughout Australia there are now over 1,000 teachers giving special instruction to more than 37,000 migrant children. These teachers are doing an outstanding job of work under conditions which, if the findings of the survey are a general indication, are often very poor indeed. 
The report states that in the schools surveyed only 29 per cent of the rooms used for migrant English classes were proper classrooms. This means that teachers and children are working in sub-standard accommodation comprising staff rooms, cloak rooms, store rooms, offices, corridors, sick bays and even shower rooms and laundries. If this were not bad enough, the survey also shows that the migrant children who attend classes in these uninspiring surroundings are the lucky few. Only one-third of the children in these schools who have difficulty with English are actually attending classes and, of this one-third, 40 per cent are not receiving sufficient tuition. Effectively, only 20 per cent of the children in the schools surveyed who need English tuition are receiving enough of it. 
The first and most obvious reason for this is the shortage of classroom accommodation. Classes are already occupying the spare cloak rooms, store rooms, corridors and laundries. There is little or no room for any more classes. The second reason is a shortage of teachers. At present, in state and independent schools all over Victoria, there are some 500 teachers providing English language tuition for over 16,000 migrant pupils. If the needs of the schools in the survey alone are to be adequately met, some 400 of these teachers would need to be deployed in the 63 schools. However, it would serve little purpose to place teachers in schools which have no room for them to conduct classes. Thus, the 2 problems of accommodation and the supply of teachers are inter-related. These problems are aggravated, as the survey shows, by certain shortages of equipment and materials. 
The Child Migrant Education Program, as I have said, provides teachers, equipment and materials. In these schools there are not enough teachers, not enough equipment, not enough materials and, above all, not enough classroom accommodation. As a consequence, far too few migrant children are receiving sufficient help. Two steps must be taken to remedy this disturbing situation. The provisions of the Child Migrant Education Program must be reviewed including the earlier decision to make the provision of classroom accommodation for migrant children the sole financial responsibility of State and independent authorities. Child migrant education must always remain a co-operative venture between the Australian Government and state and independent education authorities However, I believe that the Australian Government can and must assume a greater financial role in this venture especially in providing assistance to state and private authorities to overcome accommodation problems. To achieve this and to prevent many migrant children from growing up to become secondclass citizens, I propose to consult my colleague, the Minister for Immigration, on ways and means of reviewing the Child Migrant Education Program in conjunction with State and independent school authorities, so that it will fully meet the needs of migrant children. I present the following paper: 
Survey of Child Migrant Education - Ministerial Statement, 5th April 1973. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Is leave granted? 
That so much- 
Is the motion seconded? 
I will not delay the House more than a couple of moments, but I think it should be pointed out that the motion moved by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  arises out of a situation which has been a bone of contention among members of this House for as long as I have been a member of it and over the total period that I spent on the Opposition benches. The point of order raised by the honourable member for Bradfield was repeatedly taken by members of the previous Opposition when Ministers made what we considered to be irrelevant answers, and all of those Ministers hid behind the fact that the Speaker's ruling has always been that a Minister has the right to answer a question in the manner in which he sees fit. This was the ruling given by  Mr Speaker  Aston. I realise that honourable members opposite believe that there are 2 standards in this place - a standard for them in office and a standard that would give them the complete control of this House when in opposition. But the facts of this case are indisputable. I defy any member of the Opposition to quote one instance in the last 6 years where  Mr Speaker  Aston when ruling on a point of order raised by the Opposi tion under standing order 142 said that the Minister concerned was not entitled to answer the question asked of him in the manner in which he saw fit. Not even a fool - let alone a respected member of this Parliament - would suggest that every answer given by Ministers in the previous Government was relevant to their responsibilities. This is a time wasting exercise. Whilst I respect the integrity of the honourable member for Bradfield, I believe this is part of a planned campaign to denigrate the standing of the Chair in this House. 
Is the House agreeable to the motion being withdrawn? There being no objection, the motion is withdrawn. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! ft being 10.15 p.m. in accordance with the order of the House I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
Is the motion seconded? 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member that he confine his remarks to the motion before the Chair. He is getting a long way away from the subject. Some of his remarks would be offensive to other members of the House. 
lt is interesting to examine the speech of the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards).  The main import of it was that by some strange twist of the imagination he associated the complete breakdown of the free enterprise system in the United States of America with his story about the non-production of hogs. He seemed to want to compare that idea with the waterfront in Australia. 1 do not know how he can do this. He does not seem to be aware that the present system of waterside labour employment in Australia was devised and introduced by a Government of the same political colour as himself. It was introduced because in the opinion of the Government at that time it offered the best and most economic means of employing waterside labour. 1 doubt very much whether the honourable member for Berowra would seek to alter that system if he were sitting on this side of the House. It is all very well to say that large amounts of money are being spent in idle time. It is interesting to remember that in his speech the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  said that the reason the Opposition is supporting this Bill is the change in the man hour levy which will enable outports such as Portland and a number of others around Australia to continue in operation. That was the reason and the only reason given by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition for supporting the Bill. 
This proposed amendment to the Act has taken place because of the outcry in the smaller ports over each port being required to finance its total amount of idle time. This Bill seeks to place that burden equally on all ports. In the case of Portland, which was the area of most concern, the previous division of idle time payments amongst all outports meant a levy of 40c a man hour. The change which took place when the Employers of Waterside Labour decided to levy each port according to its needs was from 40c a man hour to $1.20 a man hour in Portland. It may have been $1.25 a man hour but it was of the order of that level of change. This Bill reduces the man hour levy to something between 2c and 10c for the port of Portland. So the reason the Opposition is supporting this Bill is because the burden of meeting idle time in outports is being transferred to the major ports. Therefore, if the arguments the honourable gentleman has put up are logical at all, he is supporting the Bill because it enables idle time to be more easily paid for in outports. This is the logic of the argument which is being put forward on his side of the House. 1 do not want to deal with that matter further but 1 think it is proper to ensure that this House realises exactly what the previous Government was doing with regard to waterside labour. 
The increase in the overall levy, which has been criticised by both Opposition speakers so far, is to enable sufficient funds to be available to pay for retirement, long service leave and the other commitments which must be met by the Employers of Waterside Labour. The previous Government refused to accept the recommendations of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority or the recommendations of the Employers of Waterside Labour and demanded that a figure be fixed which it knew, as a result of advice from the Stevedoring Industry Authority and the employers, would not meet the costs accruing in the industry. This was done for the deliberate purpose of creating industrial unrest on the waterfront during a period approaching a Federal election and I think it should be made clear to everyone that that was the prime reason. This Bill relieves outports of a burden which would have had the effect of destroying completely several of Australia's smaller ports. The Bill also removes a burden from the port of Geelong especially for that burden was disadvantaging that port to a considerable degree. Under the previous system the port of Geelong had been paying a levy of 40c to meet a requirement in its own port of 2c, the remainder being utilised to subsidise other outports. So the port of Geelong was carrying a penalty of 38c a man hour to subsidise other ports. 
When the campaign began in this House to have the 40c restored as a uniform levy on outports, I put forward the proposition that it was not in the best interests of the decentralised ports in Australia for the levy to be restored to a uniform figure for all outports because this seriously disadvantaged the major outports without greatly advantaging the minor outports. The Government's decision to amend the Act in order to provide for a uniform levy is commendable and 1 pay tribute to the work done on this matter by some very sincere gentlemen who were not talking with their tongues in their cheeks. They are the State members for Portland,  Mr Bill  Lewis, and Dundas,  Mr Eddie  Lewis. They are the State members for the electorates surrounding Portland. (Quorum formed). This House should pay tribute to the work which was done by the member for Portland and the member for Dundas, both members of the Victorian State Parliament, who consistently and regularly pressed the relevant Minister to do something to save the port of Portland. The honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who made a song and dance about it was a member of the Cabinet which introduced legislation enabling the penalties about which he is now complaining to be placed on Portland. He did not say one word against them at the time. He also pulled one of the shabbiest political tricks I have heard of by calling a public meeting in his electorate and deliberately excluding State members of Parliament from those people who were invited to attend the meeting. One wonders whether the motives of such people are to benefit their area or just to gain political points immediately before a State election. 
There is one other matter I should deal with. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition spoke at some length about what the Victorian Government is doing for the port of Portland. The Victorian Government has set up a committee to inquire into what can be done to save the port of Portland. It is fortuitous for the Victorian Liberal Party Government that the committee was established at a time when its report could not be made to the present Victorian Government because of a pending State election. Blind Freddie knows that the committee was set up to take the heat off the State Government over its inaction on decentralisation in Victoria and for no other reason. There are probably several hundred reports of such committees in the pigeon holes of the Victorian Parliament House, the titles of which have not even been read by the relevant Ministers. This Bill proves that where a need exists this Government will act, and that is more than anyone can say for the Victorian Government, even by the greatest stretch of imagination. The policy of that Government is to set up a committee, and if the committee's report does not satisfy the situation it sets up another committee to inquire into the -first committee. It has done this so often that everyone in Victoria knows that this is the position. 
If the Victorian Government had wanted to take action and if it had really wanted to do something about Portland - the problems which have faced Portland have been known for many years - it could have placed an embargo on the carriage of goods out of that area to Melbourne to be loaded on ships and sent overseas. Every bale of wool that is sold at Portland is shipped out of Melbourne., with rare exceptions. The same position applies to every bale of wool that is sold at the port of Geelong. The goods are hiked off by trucks and trains to Melbourne where they are loaded onto ships. If the Victorian Government had wanted to do anything about that it would have had no difficulty at all. It has the legislative power to prevent the transfer of goods out of those areas and to force the shipping companies to load the goods in the areas concerned. But it will not do that. It has not done it, for the very good reason that it considers it to be outside its charter to interfere with the business operations of private enterprise. There is a buck to be made out of it. 
I support the Bill. I am glad that the Opposition is supporting the Bill. Having heard the honourable member for Berowra it is difficult to understand why he is supporting the Bill because he made a pretty vehement attack in relation to idle time on the wharf. It would appear to me that he was suggesting that it would be far better to reduce the amount of idle time pay and increase the turn-round time of ships. I do not think the shipping companies would agree with that. I am sure that it would not be in Australia's national interests. Already the turn-round time of ships is critical on occasions. It costs more to tie up a ship than it does to pay men occasionally for idle time. This legislation will do much for outports such as Geelong. Also it will enable employers of waterside labour to meet their commitments to their employees. Any government or political party which suggests, as has been suggested by the Opposition today, that provision should not be made in legislation for basic award conditions and agreements under which employees shall work is totally irresponsible. I suggest that any person who puts that forward should not be speaking in this House. I support the Bill. 

The honourable member rose on a point of order. I suggest to the honourable member that he look at the Standing Orders. No point of order is involved. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Under what circumstances can persons holding Australian citizenship be deported from Australia? Have the provisions which enable this practice to take place been in operation for any length of time? Is it the intention of the Government to maintain those provisions in Australian law? Were the provisions in operation during the entire period of the previous Government? 
Order! The honourable member for Prospect has been interjecting continuously throughout this debate. I would suggest that he remain silent. 
Honourable members should examine the situation. There was a visit by the Yugoslav Prime Minister to Australia - to this Government. He had left his country long after the trial of these 3 men and after the sentences had been passed on them. He arrived in Australia a matter of days after these Australians had been stood against a wall and shot. Yesterday we heard our Prime Minister attempting to excuse him by saying: 'Perhaps he did not know'. A Prime Minister in his country at the time of the conviction of foreign citizens and in Australia at the time of the murder of citizens of this country surely would be expected to raise this matter during the full, free and frank discussions with the Australian Prime Minister about which we have been told. Unquestionably this was an instance of the Yugoslav Prime Minister treating our Prime Minister and Australia with contempt in this instance. But there has been no complaint about that. There has been no accusation of wrong treatment by the Yugoslav Prime Minister of another Prime Minister, and there should have been in these circumstances. 
There should also have been a most serious complaint about the attitude of the representative of the Yugoslav Government in Australia - the Yugoslav Ambassador. Everybody knows that an ambassador who has information of significance to impart goes to the Department of Foreign Affairs and imparts it if he cannot get to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, which very often he cannot do for good reasons. He goes to the head of the Department of Foreign Affairs and gives him the message from his government. This did not happen in this case. In a case involving the lives of Australian citizens the representative of the Yugoslav Government did not go to the Prime Minister, did not go to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister  (Senator Willesee)  and did not go. to the Department of Foreign Affairs but for some strange and inexplicable reason went to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  and then, according to the Attorney-General, said: 'Do not tell anybody about what I am telling you because it is unofficial'. This is no way for a sovereign government to be treated by the representative of another country when the lives of Australians are at stake. Yet there has been no complaint about that and no suggestion that proper and strong action will be taken against the Government which has treated Australia in this way. 
Of course, it is too late to do anything about the lives of those men who are now dead, but it is not too late to try to make well known to the Yugoslavs the approach of the Australian Government so that in future this will not occur again and so that in future Australians will not be subjected to the treatment and the killing to which they have been subjected without proper complaint by the Australian Government. What we ought to get from the Government, if it treats this seriously, is a firm statement that in the future if any Australian citizens are arrested in Yugoslavia, brought to trial in Yugoslavia, sought to be punished in Yugoslavia, this Government ought to be informed immediately that takes place so that it can take care of the rights of those people according to Australian law, so that they are properly represented, so that they are not railroaded to the kind of death to which these 3 men have been railroaded. The Government should make a statement that it insists on that, and that if it does not get that proper undertaking from the Yugoslav Government there is little point in continuing relations with such a Government. 
What is the reason for this softness. Why is there such a different approach in this case from the approach we are sure would have been made had the same circumstances occurred in, say, South Africa, Rhodesia or some other country of the Right as distinct from the Left? 
It would not be in order at this stage. 
The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  has given us a fair example of the double standard. During the 23 years  Ja&amp;  previous Government was in office - and the Australian Country Party was part of that Government - nothing was done, at all about price control and no effort was made to institute an investigation into the prices which private enterprise organisations charge. The practice of giving rebates that the honourable gentleman talks about has been going on for years. In many instances the rebates given by oil companies to private purchasers are greater than the rebates that they are prepared to give to their own one-brand service stations. If the honourable gentleman took the trouble to examine the report of the inquiry into the petroleum industry which was carried out some years ago by the Australian Automobile Chamber of Commerce these facts would be revealed to him. What the honourable gentleman talked about has been going on for a long, long time. 1 think it is fair to say that State governments have constitutional power over price control. The honourable member for Paterson was a former member of the New South Wales Government of which his Party is a coalition member. That Government could institute an inquiry and enforce forms of price control if it so desired. It is open to the Party of which the honourable gentleman is a member to take action in this matter because it has the constitutional power to do so. I am quite sure that the Askin Government will not do a single thing about it. It is far better to complain here. 
The New South Wales Government has the constitutional power to take action but, as I have said, I am sure it will not do anything about it. It is easier for members of the Parties which form the New South Wales Government to talk in this place, which does not have the power to take any action, and then to go back to the electorates and say that another government will not do anything about it. 
1 say to the honourable member for Angas that I hope that I am never in the situation where I propose a resolution to this House and then vote against it being voted upon. The facts are that repeated requests have been made especially to the Victorian Government to do something about setting up a mechanism for examining prices. These requests have always been refused on the grounds that the government's philosophical point of view is opposed to interference in the free enterprise system. I accept that as the view of the Victorian Government. But it is pointless to complain, for instance, of unions moving outside the established machinery for the price fixing of labour if one is not prepared to participate in schemes to examine the methods of price fixing for the employers of labour. 1 think it is time that State and Federal governments agreed to do something to take up the constitutional void which exists because of the changes which have taken place over more than 70 years since Federation, to ensure that one form of government or the other is able to and will legislate in fields such as price justification. The Commonwealth is almost totally limited in the actions it can take in this field - actions which are akin to blackmailing companies to comply with what the Government says. There are very few legislative means by which the Commonwealth can force a prices policy on companies in general. The States have this power and also with the power an excuse that it is not practical for a State to act in isolation on such matters, although the South Australian Government has done so rather successfully over a number of years. 
The honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  mentioned briefly the position with regard to Commonwealth assistance for school libraries in Victoria. During the last Parliament members of the then Opposition, members of the present Government complained repeatedly that the level of per capita grants given to private schools was at considerable variance with that of grants given to State schools. The then Minister for Education and Science informed the House on a number of occasions that the reason for this variance was that the responsibility rested on the State government to meet part of the cost of providing these libraries. If we accept that, I suggest that it is a cynical exercise for the Victorian Government now to suggest that it will catch up on the backlog in the provision of libraries in state secondary schools out of additional money to be made available for educational purposes by the Commonwealth in the next financial year. A smaller number of schools than should have obtained libraries have them. 
Two high schools in my electorate are without libraries. Both of those schools have been promised libraries from the amount of money which has not as yet been spent by the Victorian Government - the only government which has not fully taken up its allocation of funds. 
The schools I mention are both in areas where the need for library facilities is extremely great. They are in areas where the parents are in the semi-skilled to unskilled working groups. It is establishable that children from those areas have a greater' need for availability of literature and libraries than would exist in areas where parents have a higher educational background. The culturally under-privileged children have a greater need in this area, yet they are the very people who have not been provided with libraries under the existing State policies. In the next 5 years some of those schools will probably get libraries but in that time at least 4 groups of students will have passed through the schools from Form 1 to matriculation without the benefit of libraries. In many cases those students will have totally lost these educational opportunities. It will not be of any benefit to them to come back and look at a building which should have been constructed 20 years earlier. 
I want to take up only one other point. It relates to the availability of housing for rent. The Victorian Government has so far refused to agree to the new Commonwealth-State housing agreement because it contains a provision that 50 per cent of the total funds provided under the agreement be used for rental accommodation and 50 per cent for houses which are to be sold. The Victorian Minister for Housing has said repeatedly that the Victorian Government sells its houses to tenants. There is no evidence of this. In fact, the manner in which the houses are sold is exactly the same as that adopted by A. V. Jennings Industries (Australia) Ltd or any other mass seller of houses. The only difference is that the Victorian Government has set a minimum and maximum income level for persons who can purchase the houses. If a man earns less than a certain income he is denied the right to purchase, and if he earns more than a certain income he also is denied the right to purchase. Persons who are not able to meet the commitments involved in purchasing a house have no access whatever to new Victorian Housing Commission houses. In my electorate not one dwelling has been erected for rental purposes in the last 14 years. In that period one-third of the total number of houses in that area which were then available for rent have been sold without being replaced. So whereas in 1958 there were some 3,500 rental dwellings available to low income earners in Geelong, with the population now some 50,000 greater there are only 2,000 houses available. 

Order! The honourable member will not take a point of order on matters of debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! I suggest that the honourable member come back to the clause of the Bill. 
Order! There is too much audible conversation in the chamber. I ask honourable members to resume their seats immediately. 
It being after 10.45 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House, I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The proposed amendments read as follows) - 
The only thing I would suggest to the honourable member, if he proposes to have this moved in another place, is that he ought to think of the situation of a sitting officer who withdraws from the ballot as well as one who dies. 1 have seen instances of officers who intended to retire keeping their retirement a dark secret until nominations for the position closed, their special friend was the only other nominee and then the office-holder withdrew. He did noi die but the effect is the same. This proposal has some merit. I know of cases where the procedure I outlined has happened. In fact,  Mr Dougherty  would have been very quick to remind me that I got the position of secretary of the Australian Workers Union in South Australia in much the same way. The ballot was conducted, he would get the job. When the votes were counted 1 had won but technically it could be said that I won the position by default. We altered the rule after that to correct that situation. However, unions sometimes do not anticipate this sort of exigency and therefore there may be something to be said for the proposal. We will look at it carefully to see whether it has any merit and if it has we shall be pleased to adopt it. 
 I understand - someone on the other side of the. House may correct me - that 2 members of the Opposition parties will be going to China shortly. Perhaps the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  who might or might not have sought to go - I think it would have been informative for him to go because he is the type of person who would have benefited from such a trip - could ask honourable members who do go whether they can find out for him the information he has requested. 
No, I am not. I would be interested to know also, because this matter is of such tremendous importance, what detailed information is available or was made available to this Parliament by the previous Government on wage rates in Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong and various other Asian countries. This is a matter of interest to me and to many Australians. Some of the brighter gentlemen in our community are fairly regularly saying that goods from the countries I have mentioned should be allowed into Australia without the imposition if tariff duties because these countries are more efficient producers of goods. I would be interested to know what the cost structure &lt;s visavis wages in a lot of countries. When we ask about the levels of wages in Asian countries we should ask about the level of wages in all Asian countries. It is fairly well known to most people that the wage levels in Japan are relatively high for an Asian country and, most likely, relatively high for a lot of European countries. But the wage levels in Australia are those which are paid to workers on the basis that they are entitled to live it standards which we accept for our community. That is not true of the wages which are paid in other countries. If any comparison is to be made between the efficient cost of production in countries, obviously it has to be taken into account that if countries have slave labour or near slave labour, as exists in many Asian countries- 
I SCHOLES- I could, but I will not. The facts of the matter are that- 
If the honourable member wants this information he should return to his seat and say so. The fact of the matter is that there is much loose talk about efficiency and the placement of labour in efficient areas of production. I suggest that the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  also talks about this matter a lot. But I have never found an academic who can tell me in which efficient industries workers displaced in Australian industry, which is protected by tariffs will be employed if the criteria of the very substantial differentia] in wage rates are ignored. 
A lot of our industry is fragmented and one of the grave problems from which industry in countries like Australia suffer is that they do not have the through-put volume which exists in other countries. Unless we are prepared to involve ourselves in levels of economic planning, which would be foreign to Liberal Party philosophy, and direct resources there is no way in which we can increase through-put by eliminating the smaller industries without substantially involving people in loss of employment and loss of their assets. 
Another thing to which I wish to refer is of very great concern to a great number of people. I am sure that it is of concern to honourable members on both sides of this House. I refer to the delay in the passage of the Defence Services Homes Bill, which was passed through this House, I think, 2 weeks ago. To my knowledge it has not as yet received royal assent. I am not sure whether that Bill is presently being debated in the Senate, but it is a matter in which a large number of Australians are interested. 
I am not taking a rise out of anyone but I think it is reasonable that this Bill be dealt with as expeditiously as possible and if it is being delayed in the Senate, I ask honourable members opposite to urge their colleagues to get the Bill through. Hundreds and hundreds of Australian ex-servicemen are waiting for the increase in mortgages which will be available to them. The loan for which they will be eligible will be increased from $9,000 to $12,000, but they cannot conclude their contracts because they cannot make application for their loans. This is very serious to many people. That is the major reason why I rose to speak and I hope that honourable members opposite will use whatever influence they have to get that Bill moving and get it passed as quickly as possible. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the House. Is there a precedent in this Parliament for the cancelling of pairs on important matters? Were pairs cancelled on the occasion of a vote on a motion arising out of the offshore petroleum resources Bills? Does the Minister know who the Leader of the House was at the time when pairs were cancelled? Did the Leader of the House or the Prime Minister of the time apologise to the then Opposition for the cancelling of pairs? 
Order! The Minister has unlimited opportunities to speak in the debate but I suggest that he is ranging fairly wide of clause 1 which is before us at the moment. 
The Government is concerned about regional areas and not only the major cities of Sydney and Melbourne. It is interested in creating other eitles. It will develop such cities after a scientific analysis of areas best suited for development. In developing the Albury-Wodonga area, which is on a major transport corridor, the Government will be upgrading the railways and roadways and providing natural gas pipelines. If a real success is to be made of regional development the growth of our major capital cities must be slowed. We. must seek to create progressive and enlightened areas in which everyone has the right to live, a full life. For this reason the Government asks the Committee not to regard the use of the word 'cities' in isolation or as dividing city and country. The Government will be establishing cities in regional growth centres in country areas on major growth corridors. The Government wants to bring up to date Opposition members who have been so far behind for so many years. It wants to bring the best quality of life into regional growth areas and develop them in the best interests of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Was it expected that the fourth university in Victoria would come into operation in 1976. 
If so, when will it be necessary to allocate finance for this university if the operative date is to be met 
Has there been a delay of 6 months by the Victorian State Government in providing Information in respect of the university; if so, will this delay make a 1976 commencing date Impossible. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has the Premier or the Minister for Education of Victoria at any time provided detailed information on such matters as the structure and courses of Victoria's fourth university and the relationship of the university with teachers colleges and colleges of advanced education. 
Has he or the Australian Universities Commission been informed of the location of the administration centre of the multi-campus university. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
When was the proposal for a new university in Victoria first suggested. 
What studies into the form of the new university were undertaken, and by whom. 
What were the recommendations arising from these studies. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What details of the proposed fourth university in Victoria had been received by the Australian Universities Commission, prior to the tabling of ils report on 3rd May 1973, other than from Press reports. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What detailed information relating to the proposed Victorian university has he received since the Report of the Australian Universities Commission was tabled on 3rd May 1973. 
Has the Victorian Government indicated what courses will be available at each of the proposed branches of the university. 
I compliment the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  on his remarks. Like him, I  do  not believe that ignorance is bliss, although  it  may be comfortable. I want to speak on a matter which is of direct concern to the area I represent. This matter is creating some very unfortunate situations because of its use as a vehicle for campaigning in the Victorian State elections. Prior to the 1970 State elections undertakings were given by both major political Parties to establish a fourth university in Victoria. Following the 1970 election a committee was set up to inquire into a fourth university in Victoria. That committee reported  in  January 1972 to the Victorian Government. Its recommendation was that a university of external studies should be established, that it should be incorporated in 1972, that planning should take place over the 2 trienniums to 1978 and that a site in the eastern suburbs of Victoria should be acquired for the proposed university. 
That was the report of the Victorian Government's own committee of inquiry. The report also indicated that study centres should be established in some strategic centres in the country and that at least one site for a branch of the university should be acquired in a country area. The Victorian Government did not act on the report, and that is its prerogative. It has a perfect right to do what it likes with reports made to it. Unfortunately that is a standard it does not apply to the Commonwealth Government. The Victorian Government believes the Commonwealth Government is bound by the reports of the experts advising the Commonwealth Government, but that the Victorian Government can accept or reject advice from its own expert advisers. 
Towards the middle of 1972 the Victorian Minister for Education had some discussions with the Commonwealth Universities Commission at which he raised the matter of establishing a multi-campus university or a university in a country area. He was told by the Universities Commission that it did not consider it would be a viable proposition. In October 1972 formal discussions took place between the Universities Commission, the Victorian Minister for Education and the then Minister for Education and Science. At that stage, 9 months after the report of the expert committee had been brought forward, the Victorian Minister for Education had no proposals whatsoever to put before the committee. He was asked to provide details of the site of the proposed university, which I would have thought was a basic matter, the numbers of students envisaged at the commencement of the university and 5 years afterwards, the academic structure of the university and other details relating to its operations. This was in October last year. 
In February this year the Universities Commission wrote to the Victorian Minister of Education asking for the details to be provided. That was on 5th February, to be accurate. On 12th February the Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer,  in a Press release announced a proposed multi-campus university to be established at Ballarat, Geelong and Bendigo. I do not think any honourable member representing any of those areas would have been unhappy about that announcement. But what concerns me is that it is now the end of May and not even the site of the administrative centre is known to anyone except possibly the Victorian Minister for Education, who is not announcing it because he may well offend the 2 other cities named. He does not want to do this because of the coming Victorian election. That is why the information is being kept in the dark. 
The honourable member for Ballaarat thinks that the administrative centre will be established in Ballarat, and the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  who is sitting beside him, I am sure would like to think it will be established in Bendigo. 
There, we have complete unity among members of the Liberal Party on this matter. They both claim to have the administrative centre and I disagree completely with them. 
The Commonwealth Government and the then Minister for Education referred the matter of a university in or near Melbourne, in or near Sydney and at Albury-Wodonga, to the Australian Universities Commission in December, 2 months before the Victorian Government's announcement was made. The Victorian Minister for Education was asked - this was subsequent to 5th February - to provide details of the proposed university. No such information has as yet been provided to the Commonwealth, yet that Minister is running around Victoria saying that the Commonwealth has rejected his proposals. Based on the information that has been provided to the Commonwealth and the information which has been provided in the local areas, we could well use a discarded external toilet which is no longer required, put a sign 'university' across the door, and that would meet the description of the seats of learning which are proposed by the Victorian Government at this stage for Ballarat, Bendigo and Geelong. It would at least be a place to sit and think. 
I am concerned that on Monday of this week the Victorian Minister for Education summoned municipal leaders from Geelong, Ballarat and Bendigo to Melbourne on what was reported as a deputation, to tell them that they should demand of their Federal members of Parliament - I am sure all members concerned have had a telegram on this subject - that the Commonwealth should support the Victorian proposals. The municipal leaders concerned are being totally hypocritical about this. If 1 went to the local government bodies in Ballarat, Bendigo and Geelong and said to them: 'I want to build a motel', and gave no information other than the site on which I proposed to build, they would tell me to go away and get plans, specifications, planning permits and to give absolute and detailed information to the councils before they would consider my proposal. But they are making these claims at the behest of the Victorian Minister, who, 18 months after the Victorian report was made and 3 years after he promised the establishment of the university to the people of Victoria, has not provided details of the academic structure of the proposed university, or in fact any information whatsoever. The Victorian Government is claiming that the Commonwealth Government should establish an expert committee which will make recommendations. This is a committee which I am quite sure that the former Government would have listened to also. The Victorian Government wants that committee to recommend allocating money to a university which has no structure and no form. There has been only the announcement of the towns and some general courses which have not been allocated to any centre. 
I am not concerned that the university will not be built. I am quite sure that it will be built. But the Victorian Government has said that it should be started in 1976. It cannot start in 1976 if funds are not allocated this year. Very serious educational matters have to be considered, such as the relationship of the university with the tertiary institutions already existing in the centres named, the duplication of courses, and the great deal of planning to be done. Another thing about which I am concerned is that there are people who have become bemused by the word 'university' and will destroy or discard all other tertiary institutions in the area. What is required and what is absolutely essential is that when the university is established in these areas - J fully support the proposition and know that it will be established; I do not quarrel with that - that university should be based on the best interests of academic tertiary education for the people in those areas. I think that those people who are running round making political gimmickry for the sake of an election in which possibly no seats will change hands in these areas are doing a total disserve to the people they purport to represent. 
-It is interesting to note honourable members of the Opposition crying tears of blood about a proposal to give Trans-Australia Airlines rights to compete in the aircraft and travel industry in Australia. The proposed amendment moved by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  seeks to prevent TAA from occupying a competitive position. This has always been the philosophy of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party and always will be. 
Those parties believe in a 2-airline policy where one airline is guaranteed profits and the other airline has its hands tied behind its back. Hence, they continued throughout the whole of their period of office to refuse to grant rights to allow TAA to operate intrastate routes in States other than New South Wales. On the other hand, when Ansett Transport Industries Ltd sought a competitive position on routes which were exclusive to TAA it quickly was granted those rights. The facts of the matter are that the parties opposite are talking through their pockets and through the pockets of their Party organisations. I think that sums up in a nutshell the position of those parties on this Bill. They are seeking campaign funds and nothing more or less. 
Order! The Minister for Immigration will address the Chair and he will do so only after I have called him. Does the Minister wish to raise a point of order? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Clause 5. 
Reconsideration. 
Section 19 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted: 19.(1) The functions of the Commission are - 
to transport passengers and goods for reward by air between prescribed places; and 
within the limits of its powers under this Act or any relevant State Act, to transport passengers and goods for reward by air or in association with its powers in this section and, within those limits, to provide land transport accommodation, and other services and facilities associated with the exercise of its powers under paragraph (a), 
to provide to the Commonwealth and authorities of the Commonwealth, for reward, aviation, land transport and engineering services and such other services as can conveniently be provided by the use of the resources of the Commission. and the Commission shall carry on business for the purpose of performing those functions.' 
Order! The amendment is out of its proper sequence. 
The question is: 
That the clause proposed to be omitted stand part of the Bill. 

<graphic href="084131197305256_21_3_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="084131197305256_21_3_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="084131197305256_21_3_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the negative. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be inserted  (Mr Whitlam's amendment)  be so inserted. 
Order! The Minister can enter the debate after the Leader of the Opposition has completed his remarks. 
It is unfortunate that the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  chose deliberately to misrepresent a former honourable member for Corio, the honourable John Dedman, who is not able to defend himself in this House. J think it is accepted that the distortion which has been made in the accusation against the honourable John Dedman has been so often repeated that honourable members opposite who have to lean on it to justify their statements believe that what they are saying is true. The statement attributed to the honourable John Dedman on the hustings in 1947 by the honourable member for Ballaarat was in fact made in reply to another member in this House in October 1945. I would suggest to the honourable member for Ballaarat that before he misrepresents a former member whose record in this Parliament is greater than that of any member on the Opposition benches at present he should check his facts and make correct statements to this House. 
Read the statement he made and the context in which he said it. It is the easiest thing in the world to distort statements. The honourable member for Ballaarat stated that the honourable John Dedman made the statement 2 years after it was in fact made and he also said that it was made on an election platform. It was made in this Parliament and it is in the Hansard record for anybody who takes the trouble to check his facts before he makes irrelevant and untrue statements about a former member of this House. 
The honourable member for Ballaarat made a number of assertions about the authoritarian manner in which the housing agreement has been drawn up. I think he was a member of this House a couple of years ago when  Mr Kevin  Cairns, then Minister for Housing, introduced into this House a Bill relating to a new housing agreement which had not even been shown to the States and about which the Victorian Government made exactly the same noises that it is making now. The Victorian Government's housing policy reflects the Victorian Government's belief that if a person cannot buy a house he should live in the street. That is exactly what the Victorian Government is saying and has been saying all the time. That Government is selling off houses as quickly as it can without consideration for the needs of the community at all. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
When the sitting of the House was suspended for the luncheon adjournment I was drawing attention to some of the comments which have been made about the present negotiations being carried on over a new housing agreement. It seems that the major complaint, apart from a lot of mock hysteria, is that it is proposed in the new agreement that a certain number of houses should be made availble to people who require houses for rent. The Victorian Government, for instance, is complaining bitterly that it will be required to offer for rent 50 per cent of the houses constructed under the terms of the proposed agreement. It is, I think, contrary to the previous policy of the Victorian Government to offer houses for rent. It not only has a policy of home ownership, as I said, but pursues a policy of compulsory home ownership. People are compelled to buy houses if they want accommodation. 
In most areas at present it is possible to purchase a home from the Housing Commission after a much shorter waiting period than is required to obtain a house for rental, lt has been often repeated that the Commission sells houses to tenants. Whilst tenants may purchase the houses in which they live, the majority of Housing Commission home sales are made over the counter in exactly the same way as is done by any other major house seller in Australia. The Victorian Housing Commission has not built a house specifically for rental purposes in my electorate in the last 14 years - not a single house. The result is that the number of houses available for rental has dropped from 3,500 to slightly less than 2,100 during a period when the population of the area has doubled. With a large percentage of the rental accommodation available occupied by deserted wives, widows and persons who are moving into the elderly character, the rental accommodation available to the population is extremly small. 
One of the purposes of welfare housing or subsidised housing surely must be to provide housing for persons who have great difficulty in purchasing a home. In the Geelong area in recent times it has been possible to purchase a home after waiting for about 6 months, but if somebody wishes to rent a home from the Housing Commission the waiting period is some 2 years, depending upon whether a 2 bedroom or 3 bedroom home is sought. This situation exists not only in that area but also in the metropolitan area of Melbourne where possibly it is even worse. In Melbourne people who suggest that they do not want to buy a home are offered accommodation on the 30th floor of a concrete prison, where their children will see a blade of grass only once a week and where a mother cannot attend her children - they are left to play all day in corridors - and where there are all the other accompanying problems. 
One of the results of the negotiations which have taken place on this occasion is that the Commonwealth has refused to fund further high rise development. Therefore the Victorian Government now has acknowledged that it will not build any more. I am sure that it will not do so as it does not have the money to pay for them. Possibly there is no worse feature of housing policy in Australia than the concrete monstrosities which are appearing in the centres of our cities. They not only are poor housing, they have a tremendous effect on the morale of the communities that have to live in them. It has been the policy of the Victorian Government to offer people the choice of a concrete monstrosity or to buy a house, whether they can afford it or not. 
Also there are people who cannot buy a house because they are excluded from doing so under the terms on which Housing Commission houses are sold. There is a maximum income limit. I do not quarrel with that idea; if the Government is providing subsidised housing I think it is not unreasonable that a maximum be set. The Victorian Government has a maximum which possibly is too low rather than too high. One cannot quarrel with that. But there is also a minimum income involved. If a man's income is below a certain level he cannot purchase a Housing Commission home in Victoria. If the person concerned is over a certain age he can purchase a home only if he undertakes to meet half the market value before reaching the age of 65 years. It is not always easy to pay that sum. If the person concerned has an income of under $80 a week and is in his mid-fifties and without capital to meet that requirement, it is not a question of whether he would like to own his own home but a question of whether he can do so. If a person cannot meet the requirements he cannot have his own home. These people are totally excluded from occupancy of a house. No houses are built by the Victorian Government for rental in most areas and these people are offered accommodation in concrete monstrosities. 
Time is running short,  Mr Speaker,  and it is the wish of the House to proceed with this Bill. I could say a lot more about present housing policies. I believe it is quite proper that people whose income and position is such that they cannot afford to buy a house should be given some form of accommodation. I disagree totally with the philosophy expressed repeatedly on the Opposition side of the House that people who cannot afford to buy a house are not entitled to live anywhere. 
Order! 1 suggest that, as the honourable member is speaking in Committee, it would be a good idea if he referred to the Bill. 
Yet this new Government comes in here imposing restrictions on young people endeavouring to purchase their own homes. In the long term this will have the effect of creating a nation of renters, people who will never own anything. This is very much in accord with the Labor Party's philosophical approach of keeping people down because it believes that if it keeps them down they will never know better and perhaps they will keep voting Labor. The Minister and honourable members opposite may laugh, but this is a fact. I do not believe that this Federal Government is any more capable- 
Is the Minister for Defence (a a position  to indicate what orders and prospective orders are available for the Government' Aircraft Factories' aircraft Nomad? Has the Government considered giving or given financial guarantees for the bor rowings of money in order to finance advance orders of the aircraft and if no such guarantees are available, is the lack of guarantees and the necessity for the Government Aircraft Factories to seek Treasury approval after orders have been placed seriously jeopardising the sale of the aircraft? 
Order! I suggest that the honourable gentleman relate his remarks to clause 3 of the Bill. He is speaking in Committee. The honourable member may not participate in a general debate on the Bill. It appears to me at the moment that he is debating the Representation Bill, not the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill. 
Order! I accept the point of order. The Committee is considering the insertion of additional paragraphs to clause 13. The Minister may refer to the other matters when the Committee is dealing with the Senate amendments. 
If these gases are commingled under the common carrier concept, the subsequent removal of liquefied petroleum gas at the market may be rendered completely uneconomic, since the entire volume of all gas would need to be passed through the extractor plant at the market terminal. Even if this were to be economic, increased costs of liquefied petroleum gas covered could be incurred due to the commingling in transport. The position becomes even more complex where different parties supply to the. pipeline, gases of different composition, not only in regard to liquefied petroleum gas or calorific value, but also in regard to inert constituents such as carbon dioxide and nitrogen, and to possible corrosive constituents such as hydrogen sulphide and water vapour. In simple terms, common carrier operation would be utterly destructive to a uniform delivered price structure. 
Also implicit in the common carrier concept is the right to consign natural gas to export points without regard to Australia's proven reserves and long term needs. I need not remind honourable members of the foreign affairs speech delivered by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  last Thursday night, and the role which Australia's reserves of energy could play in Australia's international relations, foreign policy and their implementation. There could be a grave, danger of the rape of north-west shelf natural gas by unlimited production and exploration under the terms of the current Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. In the statutory period of 21 years for a production lease, the whole of the north-west shelf reserves could be exported. I ask honourable members to consider the objectives of Woodside-Burmah, with a notably minority Australian ownership, in securing a 'quick buck' under the terms of the current legislation. I also draw honourable members' attention to the failure of the Victorian natural gas producers to penetrate adequately the Victorian fuel market. The penetration rate is 9 per cent on a black coal equivalent basis instead of the planned 30 per cent. This means that sales are seriously restricted, and these producers are desperately anxious to supply the New South Wales market at very substantially reduced prices to those prevailing in Victoria. This stupid situation is a legacy to Victorian gas consumers from  Sir Henry  Bolte. 
The pipeline will at the earliest stage reach Newcastle, and the magnificent gas-making black coal reserves of the Hunter River Valley. At a later stage, when linked with Victoria, the world ranking brown coal deposits of the Latrobe Valley will also be available. The economic life of the pipeline will be 60 years with modern proofing treatment. If, within that period, Australia's natural gas reserves are exhausted, synthetic natural gas, of high calorific value, can be fed back from these deposits into the pipeline to meet our national needs almost without future limits on availability. 
In summary, equality of price and certainty of supply are Labor policy. These are requirements which only a national pipeline authority could achieve. Unregulated use of a pipeline, on a common carrier basis by rival producers, with differing pricing policies, wide variations of gas quality, and control by overseas majority shareholders, would be chaotic. Only a national authority can enforce equality 
Qf pricing in the national interest, and conserve these valuable resources on a planned basis for Australia's future requirements and survival. 
Order! I suggest that the honourable member address the Chair. Also, if the Minister wishes to enter the debate again he can do so at the appropriate time. 
I wish to inform the House of the following nominations of members for the Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation:  Dr Jenkins, Mr Kerin, Mr Lamb  and  Mr Sherry  have been nominated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam); Mr Bourchier  and  Mr Fox  have been nominated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden);  and  Mr Ian  Robinson has been nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony). 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What sum was advanced to the Victorian Government as the Commonwealth share of the cost of relief for flood victims in early 1973. 
What were the terms under which Commonwealth assistance was made available. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the fact that security organisations must be answerable to Parliament in some manner, will he consider making the Australian Security Organisations answerable either to a subcommittee of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence or the appointment of a special parliamentary authority consisting of the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition and one other member of the Government? 
-Order! I suggest that the honourable member not cast reflections on this House. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows) - 
My dear Minister, 
Arising out of our discussions during the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council today, 1 am writing to you to raise the possibility of the Commonwealth assuming responsibility for the co-ordination of policies and special programs affecting Aboriginals is Queensland. 
The Commonwealth Government has no wish to assume total and direct control of all programs and believes that in fields such as health and education the State authorities should continue to provide services for Aborines as for other citizens, with such special assistance as may be necessary being supported with Commonwealth Government grants as at present. I believe, however, that there would be advantages in having the functions or certain of the functions of your Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs transferred to the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I would envisage a division of my Department being established in Brisbane to maintain close liaison with your own and other State Departments, in particular in relation to Commonwealth funded programs. 
There will, of course, be many problems to be considered and resolved. I would suggest that, if you and your Government agree, our officers might confer to explore the issues involved without commitment in the first instance. Officers might prepare a report for our consideration, outlining the most effective means of bringing about the transfer of functions. 
I would be glad to have your views. 
Yours sincerely, 
Can the Minister for Defence advise whether the present orders for Nomad aircraft placed with 'the Government Aircraft Factories are sufficient to maintain the workload in that establishment, and whether additional orders have been received for Ikara missiles and other products of GAF? Will the measures announced in the Minister's defence statement last night affect the projected delivery dates for orders of Nomad aircraft? 
 I move: 
That this House is of the opinion that - 
the site for the New and Permanent  ParliamenHouse  should be determined forthwith. 
a joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives should be convened to determine the matter, and 
planning for the new House should commence immediately. 
That a message be sent to the Senate acquainting it of this resolution and requesting its concurrence. 
The motion which appears on the notice paper is, I think, the most practical form in which such a motion can be passed by this House. The House previously has expressed an opinion on the site of Parliament House - one with which I disagree. The Senate also has expressed an opinion which differs from that of the House. Moving the motion in the form in which it now appears on the notice paper I believe presents the only means by which the question can properly be resolved. 
If we proceeded in this House as my former motion would have provided and again made a decision on a site, either site might be chosen. But we would still be in the position that the Senate might choose a different site. So we would be back to the situation which existed on the last occasion this matter was debated. I believe it is a question which should be decided with some degree of urgency. It is nearly 10 years since the Lake site was substituted for the original Camp Hill site. The Capital Hill site was voted against by this House but agreed to by the Senate. This House was then in conflict with the Senate on the proposed site. The only means by which a solution can be arrived at by the majority of members of the Parliament - I believe this is not a matter for the House of Representatives or for the Senate to decide - is for it to be resolved by the collective will of the members of the Parliament. 
I acknowledge that any decision which will be made to proceed with the construction of a new and permanent parliament house will have to be an Executive decision whereby the Executive of the day will decide whether it is able or prepared to allocate funds for that purpose. I do not believe that precludes the House from expressing its opinion that the matter is urgent. I do not believe there is any member of this House - any Minister, any member of the Opposition or any backbench member of the Government - who does' hot" agree that this particular House is' totally unsatisfactory, taking into account the fact that approximately 1,000 people work in it. This House was built originally as a temporary structure because at that time the Parliament was unable to agree on a permanent parliament house site and, because of the necessity to have a House for the Parliament, a very substantial temporary structure was erected. 
The stage has now been reached where the cost of additions and maintenance that must be carried out is becoming ludicrous. Almost every -year Sim or more is spent on extensions to patch up a building which has outlived its economic usefulness. It is a historic building and one which I think most honourable members would like to see preserved but, as with many such structures, the preservation of a building does not necessarily mean that it can perform the function for which it wis originally designed. In Britain the Tower of London is preserved but it is no longer used for imprisoning prisoners or for the dislocation of one's head from one's body, which was its original purpose. 
The motion asks that the site be resolved immediately. It asks the Senate to co-operate in a joint sitting with this House to resolve the site. I believe that at such a sitting the question of the 2 sites could be adequately debated and resolved. 1 think that at this time we should decide to ask for a joint sitting of both Houses of Parliament. I do not intend to debate the merits; of the 2 sites now. Every honourable member in this House knows where I stand on that matter. I firmly believe that the most adequate site is Capital Hill. There may be, and no doubt there will be, very sound, useful and practical reasons advanced for the site at Camp Hill being adopted. I do not believe that it would be in the interests of resolving the question before us to go into that at this time. If amendments are moved to provide for a site, we will delay the resolution of this question indeterminately. We will almost be in a situation of disagreement with the Senate and will have to revert to asking for a joint meeting to resolve the question, lt is a question that should be decided by an absolute majority of members of both Houses. I move this motion because I believe it is the best way to solve the problem. I move it because I believe that the problem of the site should be resolved quickly. Plans are already afoot for the partial construction or the starting of construction of a new parliament house on the Camp Hill site. These plans can be looked at and proceeded with only if there is agreement by both sides of the Parliament or by the majority of members of the Parliament. 
I said earlier I did not intend to go into the merits or demerits of either of the sites. The reason I have changed the motion so that it reads as it does is to try to resolve the situation. It is most unlikely that we will get a result by a unanimous decision of both Houses. This is a matter that should be decided by the members of the Parliament and not the Executive. Any failure by members of Parliament to resolve the problem will be a transference of the responsibility to the Executive. We can resolve the question only by all of the members of Parliament meeting together, discussing the question fully and reaching a decision. The motion I have moved meets the requirements of solving the problem. I have not canvassed the merits of the sites. I hope that the House will pass the motion in the form in which it appears because it calls for action which will resolve the question. I hope the House can move quickly to a vote on this question so that we can proceed with the business of resolving the location of the new and permanent parliament house. I repeat what I said earlier: Whilst it is an Executive decision whether we proceed or when any construction is proceeded with, the House has a right to express an opinion that it believes that planning should commence immediately. 
I have to present pursuant to statute the report and financial statements of the Reserve Bank for the year 1972-73, together with the Auditor-General's report thereon. 
Order! I would suggest that the Minister return to the clause that is before the Committee. 
Order! The honourable member will be out of order if he debates subject matter which is not the subject matter of this Bill. 
The Commission will be the Government's adviser on what I think is the most important of all our international affairs. Something very regrettable, something which I think could have been foreseen, is happening in the international field. The power to make nuclear weapons - the Commission must be the Government's adviser in this matter - is now proliferating among other nations. We know that already nuclear weapons are in the hands of the United States of America, the Soviet Union, Communist China, Great Brittain and France. I think that the Commission would be in a position to advise the Government that the proliferation of nuclear weapons, because of new techniques- 
I think that the Chair is able to control the debate. I have pointed out to the honourable gentlemen that I will not allow him to stray too far from the Bill. I suggest to the honourable gentleman that he is now moving back to the situation he had arrived at when I interrupted him initially. 
Speaker, that I may not debate now the question I have very little more to say. I support this Bill and I express the hope that in the near future the Government will allow this whole vital nuclear question to be debated in this House. I hope that the Government also will give to this House an opportunity of debating the Government's own discreditable actions in sacking the National Radiation Advisory Committee in order to cover up a lie which it has been propagating throughout the electorate. 
I think it is unfortunate that the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  has chosen to speak in the manner in which he has spoken. One of the reasons why this proposal is before the House is the very reason which he advanced why it should not be before the House, and that is that there is a proliferation of committees. There are serious duplications of committees and there are not adequate opportunities for committees to meet and to discuss properly the business for which they were set up. The reason for the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee to look into and make recommendations on a committee system for the House is to enable us to endeavour to devise a system which will give adequate committee coverage and which will give back-bench members adequate opportunities to investigate and express themselves on matters in which they are interested. 
One of the problems which arose with the Senate committee system was that there was not always adequate manpower available. Because of the political complexion of the Senate and the competitiveness with which the setting up of committees was pursued an ad hoc system arose in which senators found themselves on 2, 3, 4 and 5, and in at least one case that I know of involving one senator, 7 committees of the Senate at the same time. These sorts of circumstances make a farce of a committee system. The committees then operate only because of the weight carried by a few members. 
There is a contradiction in the statement that we should not examine the committee system because the present system does not work and cannot be made to work because of the lack of time available, when this is accompanied by a request for the House to meet longer so that committees can devote more time to the consideration of legislation. In the time that I have been a member of this House there has never been adequate time to debate legislation in the manner in which some members of the House would wish and there are always some members of the House who would consider any legislation to be important to them. But because of the pressures of time and the pressures which are placed upon the House to pass legislation it is rare for all members to get the opportunities which they would seek to consider legislation. This applies as much to Government supporters as it does to members of the Opposition. I remember prior to the last election supporters of the then Government - and this happens now - being pulled out of debates in order that members of the Opposition could get some chance to debate the legislation - although quite often not the chance that they really wanted. 
There are many areas which a committee such as this proposed committee could investigate. There are many areas into which an investigation could prove profitable. One matter which could be examined is a proposal whereby the House would examine all legislation in a committee situation - committees of the House - during the stage of consideration of the Bill which is now conducted by the Committee of the whole House. It may well be that if that method were adopted we could extend the time available for consideration of legislation without in any way restricting the rights of members. It may be that we could devise a set of standing committees whereby the responsibilities would be divided in some way between the Senate and the House of Representatives so that adequate coverage of the various subject matters which may be referred to committees can be given without developing a situation similar to, for instance, the present one where we have a Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and a Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs. Those 2 committees are operating in exactly the same fields but they have been set up and are conducted as parliamentary committees with the Senate, quite properly, claiming that it has the right to set up its own committees. 
I feel that any examination undertaken seriously by the Parliament in order to resolve the problems which confront a parliament that is pressed for time and pressed for legislative output can only do good. To suggest that for the Parliament to set up a committee to look at itself is a waste of time or would put too much pressure on members serving on that committee is to adopt a defeatist attitude. I believe that a committee such as is proposed could rationalise or recommend means by which parliamentary legislation could be dealt with in a manner more acceptable to honourable members without detracting in any way from the operations of the House. I think everyone acknowledges that it is difficult for committees to work adequately when the Parliament is sitting. For this reason the system of committees and the operations of the House should be examined by a joint committee such as is proposed. The proposed committee will conduct an examination not only of the committees of the House of Representatives but also of the total com mittee system which operates or could operate in the Parliament. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
The acceleration in the rate of growth in land prices in the past 2 years has undoubtedly been related to the build-up in capital inflow and the extremely easy monetary conditions, as well as increasing awareness in the community of the gains to be made from property in an inflationary situation. It has resulted in very substantial income shifts from the poorer to the richer sections of the community and placed many of the poor and lower income earners in an impossible situation in regard to housing .. . Even if land prices were stabilised immediately there would still be a major social problem left to resolve. 
Over the last 2 years there has been a remarkable escalation in housing prices within the Federal electorate of Melbourne, particularly in the suburbs of North Carlton, North Melbourne, East Melbourne and North Fitzroy. There are many examples which could be cited. A single frontage, single storey, 2-bedroom ' house on the corner of Church Street and Flemington Road, West Parkville, which sold for $11,000 in January 1972 was resold recently for $19,000. No renovations had been made. In North Carlton 2-storey terrace houses which were selling for less than $20,000 2 years ago now bring in excess of $35,000 unrenovated. The escalation in housing costs is having immense sociological ramifications for the community in the inner suburbs of Melbourne. It has produced a significant change in the nature of the population. Working class residents no longer can afford to remain in the area. The rapidly spiralling prices have meant that migrants and other low income groups no longer can afford to buy in these over-priced residential areas. They have been forced into the outer fringes of the western suburbs where they have to undertake the costly pioneering work associated with the establishment of new suburbs. 
It is these settlers on low incomes who have to pay for the provision of roads, sewerage, lighting and other basic essential services such as libraries and public health facilities, and who have to subsidise the new educational complexes. These services already have been provided to a degree in my electorate, and this is part of the reason why the area has become so attractive to the middle class in recent years. 
The Housing Commission regrettably has accentuated this trend. To some extent it has been fulfilling the positive role of supplying housing for those on low incomes, but it has been doing this in the inner areas in an especially rigid and unacceptable form.  Mr Speaker,  as the tactics of the Opposition have precluded me from finishing what I would have liked to say, I ask that the rest of my speech be incorporated in Hansard. 
When I was listening to the earlier part of the speech of the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  I had the feeling that he was trying to paraphrase a story by 'Hans Christian Andersen. However, as he proceeded a little more diligently I thought that he must have been quoting from the works of the Brothers Grimm. It was clear, at least, that his speech was of the same vintage as the works of those gentlemen. Last night we heard in this House a speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  in which he put forward what he professed would be done by a Liberal-Country Party government. I am not sure that the Country Party accepts responsibility for what the honourable gentleman said, but he told us what a LiberalCountry Party government would do if it was preparing a Budget. 
If we had been frightened by the honourable gentleman's speech last night one wonders how we would ever get into this place; even the attendants outside would scare us off. The Leader of the Opposition for some time has been suggesting around the country that the 2 Liberal Premiers and one Country Party Premier - we do have a Country Party Premier thanks to very careful manipulation of electoral boundaries - would be prepared to co-operate with the Commonwealth Government in action against inflation. Last night the honourable gentleman suggested that we should have a 90-day freeze on incomes and prices.  His  speech also had some relationship to those fairy tales related by the previous  speaker.  Only a short time ago the Leader of the Opposition occupied the position of Treasurer of Australia. At an earlier time he was the Commonwealth Attorney-General. With the background of knowledge that I would expect anyone would gather from holding both those portfolios I would have thought that at least he would have known that no meeting of any description in Australia, no matter who was present at it, could pass legislation or enforce any agreement to freeze incomes or prices within Australia. No one, other than possibly the State governments, has power in the field of prices. The 3 conservative States have no price fixing or examining mechanisms at all. The Victorian Government has been asked repeatedly by members of the Victorian Parliament to set up some form of price examination mechanism similar to that which exists in South Australia. It has refused to do so. 
The Leader of the Opposition purports to speak for the Premier of Victoria. The Premier of Victoria does not seem to me to be unable to speak for himself, but he has never publicly supported the statements of the Leader of the Opposition on this matter. The Leader of the Opposition suggests that the States are prepared to co-operate. One would have thought that in the first instance the States would at least have tried to do something themselves. The Premier and the Leader of the Opposition have both stated publicly that the Commonwealth should cut back on spending. That is a very nice sentiment indeed. It is one they do not believe for one minute, because neither is prepared to suggest what moneys should not be spent that will be spent in this Budget. In fact in Victoria every day some State Minister says: 'We will not accept this money from the Commonwealth under these terms.' They accept the money, but they accept it protesting. They seem to me to be like some other well known characters I have heard of. They did it when the previous Government was in power too, but not quite so vocally. Perhaps they were churched as well as married. 
We also have the situation where State Ministers are saying daily 'We want so much money from the Commonwealth to do this' and they do not even tell the Treasurer of the State that they want the money. In fact they do not tell the Premier either. It is a sort of think of a number' game. They think of a number. Then they say 'We need this amount of money from the Commonwealth' and demand that they get it immediately. About 3 months ago one particular Minister thought of $17m that he wanted for the education of the handicapped. He did not even take the trouble when writing to the Minister for Education - those honourable members opposite who have been in government know that that is not the way in which requests for funds from the Commonwealth are made - to indicate how he would spend the money. He just thought of a number. It was good publicity for the day. A lot of people's hopes were raised. But in fact the State government had no plans to do anything if it received the money. It would have been embarrassed by it if it had actually been handed out. 
We have the sort of situation where a demand for public moneys is being created by continual pressures and public statements by State Ministers and at the same time statements are made by members of the same Party demanding that Commonwealth Government expenditure be reduced. I suggest that they cannot have it both ways. If they suggest that Government spending should be reduced they should also suggest where Government spending should be reduced. Would the Opposition have denied those on social services the $1.50 increase it has criticised as being too small? I assume that we could have cut government expenditure by increasing that amount in the manner suggested by the Leader of the Opposition. It seems to me to be an Irish way of suggesting a cut but that is what he did last night. Most likely an even better way of reducing government expenditure would have been to restructure the tax schedules which the previous Government did not do after 1953 but which the Leader of the Opposition last night suggested should have been done. This would have increased rather than have reduced the deficit, yet he said that we should have reduced it. Again this was a little bit of double talk almost in the same sentence. 
The honourable member for North Sydney who preceded me made a number of remarks, one of which I found quite fascinating. He said that one day somebody will come into this House and announce that Australia is a republic. One of the limitations which all governments have in this place is the Australian Constitution and I would have thought it would have taken a lot more than an announcement in this House to change the present constitutional position of Australia. 
At no stage did it change the Constitution of Australia. I suggest that honourable members who make statements like that are talking with the full knowledge that what they are saying has no weight. It is a lot of hot air designed to gain some sympathy from people who are gullible enough to believe that it could happen. One could ask what, other than the historic link, was the difference between having a ceremonial  president  and having a ceremonial GovernorGeneral. The last 2 Governors-General of Australia have been former members of this Parliament and former members of the Liberal Party. If the next Governor-General happened to be a former member of this Parliament and a member of the Australian Labor Party and of the Labor Government, the effect constitutionally and practically would be exactly the same as having a nominated  president  as is the case in a number of countries. I do not think that anybody in this House would suggest that we should copy the American presidential system or one of those presidential systems which is very close to a single man non-parliamentary government. People who make statements like that made by the honourable member for North Sydney should accept the criticism that they are making the statements to try to mislead a gullible public rather than to put concrete arguments on a matter of fact. 
The honourable member mentioned that the Swiss national anthem has the same tune as the Australian national anthem. That may be so, but it seemed a bit silly to me when I was watching a rebroadcast - that seems to be all we get from the Australian Broadcasting Commission these days - of a recent boxing match that 2 national anthems were played. The fight was for a British Commonwealth title. One contestant came in under the Canadian national anthem while the other, an Australian, came in under the British national anthem. If the argument holds for 'God Save the Queen' being Australia's national arnhem. there does not seem to be any reason why it should not hold for it being Canada's national anthem as well. 
 That is correct and it. has been the Australian national anthem since the 1950s, not for many years as the honourable gentleman suggested. It was changed by none other than  Sir Robert  Gordon Menzies because he felt that Australia was not a sufficiently important nation to have its own national anthem, and we did not have the moral fibre to stand on our own feet and noi crawl to somebody. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory would not understand. (Quorum formed) 
The Budget which was presented by the Treasurer is designed to carry out the policy proposals which were put by the Opposition at the time of the last general election. Those policy proposals were accepted by the Australian people and we were in duty bound to bring them into operation. It is a responsibility of a government elected on certain policies to bring those policies into operation as soon as possible. At the time of the last elections the then Leader of the Opposition, now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  indicated that the policies which were put by him on behalf of the Australian Labor Party would be introduced within the life of this Parliament. That undertaking still stands. 
In any Budget there are those things which people will find unacceptable. When I was a member of the Opposition I never heard a budget in which I could not find areas which I felt I could exploit for political purposes. I have no doubt that Opposition members will find themselves in the same position in relation to this Budget. 1 am sure that as a memper of the Opposition I could do what honourable members opposite will do in that respect. The only difference is that the areas of the Budget which I most likely would have found to criticise would have been those areas which are harder on people on low incomes and harder on those people most in need if this Budget had been drawn up by a Liberal Party Treasurer. 
The major increases in expenditure have been in the field of education and in the field of Aboriginal welfare. It is in those 2 areas that the Australian people have clearly indicated that they believe a greater amount of money should be spent. Unfortunately there is a minimum of co-operation in some States in respect of attempts to improve our educational facilities. Unfortunately a lot of grandstanding is going on in this area as there is, as 1 mentioned, in other areas. I instance one case of serious grandstanding by a Victorian Minister. Less than a fortnight ago the Victorian Minister for Education issued a public statement in which he said that he had at least been able to force the Commonwealth Government to examine the Victorian Government's proposal for a multiple campus university. I emphasise the words that he had 'at last been able'. That statement smacks of hypocrisy. In October last year the Minister concerned was told in discussions with the then Minister for Eduction and the Australian Universities Commission that when a submission on this question was ready to be submitted the Universities Commission would examine it. The Minister made a public statement in February this year on the site and to some degree on the courses for such a university. 
The Universities Commission attempted repeatedly to obtain detailed information on which it could base a judgment but that information was not forthcoming. In May this year some information was provided but it did not give any detail in regard to student intake, proposed courses or anything of that nature. The Victorian Minister went politicking around Victoria claiming support from local government bodies - not educational bodies because he knew that they would see through the hollow facade he was putting up. He went to local government bodies endeavouring to drum up support for a proposal that he could not even present to the Universities Commission for examination. On 30 July this year the proposal was submitted. I repeat that it was submitted on 30 July this year. It was not considered before that date because there is no gentleman on the Universities Commission who is clairvoyant and who would therefore have been able to, anticipate what the Victorian Minister would submit. The Victorian Minister for Education is grandstanding and I suspect he is doing so for one good reason. He has been unable to prepare a case to support the proposals which he claimed he was going to put forward nearly 12 months ago and he is now trying to pass the buck for his own incompetence on to the 
Commonwealth. I suggest that is the real reason why he is making public statements rather than submitting detailed and accurate submissions. 
I have on the notice paper a question to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  asking him to table all the documents in regard to this matter. Before those documents can be tabled it will be necessary to have the agreement of the Victorian Minister. I wonder whether he has the courage to allow his documents to be tabled so that people who know something about education can examine them. 
I want to raise a matter on which I have spoken in the House before and of which I think this Parliament should take note. In Victoria over the past 6 to 8 months considerable publicity has been given to proposals to establish a fourth university. Prior to the 1970 State election both major political parties promised to establish a fourth  university  in a country area. Subsequently a committee was established in Victoria and it reported in 1972. However, no action arose out of that report and in fact the report of that committee was discarded. In October last year the Australian Universities Commission asked the Victorian Government to provide it with details of courses, student numbers and other information relevant to what was proposed for the country university, as it was then mooted. In February this year in a short Press statement the Victorian Government indicated that it would establish a university based on Geelong, Ballarat and Bendigo which would be located on grounds jointly occupied by a section of the university in each town, by the already existing teachers college in each town, which would be shifted to those grounds, and the college of advanced education existing in each of those towns. It was said that commerce, arts and science would be the courses, and that external studies would be the major aspect of the universities. 
The Australian Universities Commission continued to ask for detailed information so that this matter could be examined. The Commission, as we all know, was engaged in an examination with the Australian Commission on Advanced Education of proposals relating to the future needs for a university in or near Melbourne and in the Albury-Wodonga area. Obviously it would have been of benefit to the Commission had it had before it proposals which would have enabled it to consider the Victorian Government's projected multicampus university at the same time as it made  recommendations on other aspects. The report which was finally brought down indicated that on the information available about student numbers and other factors, an area to the east of Melbourne should be considered for the university in or near Melbourne. The report also indicated that it could be that by about 1990 there would be a requirement for a university in the Geelong area. More significantly, the report said that the Commission had been unable to consider the Victorian Government's proposals because it was unable to obtain any information relating to those proposals. On the morning on which the report was tabled in this House the Premier of Victoria indicated by telegram to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  that he was forwarding additional information relating to the Victorian Government's proposals. 
At this time the Victorian Minister for Education,  Mr Thompson,  was demanding that the Commonwealth indicate that it was prepared to support the Victorian Government's proposals. He was asking that the Universities Commission, a body set up to evaluate proposals requiring the expenditure of money in the university field, should support a blank cheque approach without the provision of any details, indications of the number of students involved, the likely cost structure, the courses, staffing or anything else. He was demanding that a decision be made without any information. This is akin to a person going into a local council office and saying: 'I own a block of land and intend to build a motel on it. Would you please give me a permit?' I imagine in those circumstances the local government body would request further information. However, in what I would say was a fairly shrewd political move, by announcing the sites and thereby lifting the expectations of the areas concerned, the Victorian Minister for Education was able to cloud the fact that no submissions or preparatory work had been done by the Victorian Government. A smokescreen has been placed over the whole project with expectations in Geelong, Ballarat and Bendigo being increased among people not fully aware of the facts that there would be a university in those areas. 
Recently the Minister has been patting himself on the back because at last he has been able to get the Commonwealth Government to consider his proposals. It would have been very surprising if the Government had considered them any earlier because he did not put them in until 30 July. Irrespective of what government was in Canberra, it would not have been able to consider the proposals before they were submitted. From 1970 until August this year; - that is a minimum period - the Victorian Government has been engaged in drawing up specific proposals for a fourth university. What worries me most is that the people who know most about the educational needs of the 3 cities are not fully involved, and have not been fully involved, in the planning for this fourth university. There is a means by which an adequate tertiary institution or university, if one likes to call it that, can be provided in each of the 3 cities but it cannot be provided on the basis of 3 campuses and 9 separate entities with three of them operating in each city under different controls. There would be different State bodies controlling each. There would be a teachers college, there is what I think is called the Victorian council of teachers colleges, there would be the Victorian Institute of Colleges and the Victorian University Council which would control the 3 university colleges. Each of these bodies would have to make decisions, for instance, on the location of buildings. If the university wanted to build a new toilet it would have to get the agreement of the Victorian Institute of Colleges, the council of teachers colleges and the council of the Victorian university because it would be sharing the grounds. I am told that a minor proposal would require 16 separate decisions to be made. That is how complicated and how impractical the suggestion is. What should be done - even at this late stage it may be possible - is that the teachers colleges, the colleges of advanced education and the additional area which was proposed for a university- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! What is the point of order? 
In accordance with standing order 226 the Committee will first consider the Second Schedule of the Bill. 
The remarks of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  especially those he made in the last few minutes of his speech, are rather remarkable. He may or may not have been a member of this House at the time, but he appears to have forgotten that the former  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Sir John  McEwen, circulated some 70,000 letters to dairy farmers putting forward Australian Country Party policy, at the cost of the taxpayers of Australia. This was justified on the basis that it was putting forward Government policy which people were entitled to know and which the Press would not adequately explain. Apparently the honourable member for Sturt was not aware of this. Apparently he was also not aware that the former Government distributed by post to every person in Australia details of its health schemes on at least one other occasion. This is an area where there is most likely more confusion being created by deliberately untrue statements- 
I am not saying that the honourable member for Sturt made untrue statements. I am saying that this area of policy is an area where there is more confusion being created by deliberately untrue' statements than any other area of political discussion in Australia in recent times, possibly with the exception of the Vietnam issue which was an area of pretty doubtful morality as far as the political debate that took place in this country was concerned. There has been and continues to be a campaign mainly waged on behalf of private insurance companies and mainly financed out of funds provided by or supported by taxpayers, funds of the private health insurance groups and funds of foreign owned drug companies. I would suggest that the foreign owned drug companies are pouring money in very large quantities into the campaign against the Government's health scheme because they feel that their interests and their profit margins may be threatened if more adequate scrutiny of their activities becomes possible. 
I would suggest that if people are allowed to learn the truth about the Government's scheme, this is a worthwhile activity for the Government to engage in. I am rather surprised that the honourable member for Sturt and other honourable members on the other side of the House seem to feel that it is all right for health insurance funds to use contributor's funds without their permission to put out publicity which contains more half truths and deliberate untruths than any honest organisation should be allowed to publish whilst denying the Government the opportunity to put forward the facts about its scheme. If anyone doubts that the funds are using contributors' funds for publicity purposes I suggest that he examine the amounts of money that are being spent and disclose the sources from which that money is coming. The funds claim that they are able to service the Australian community's health costs economically. At the moment many are distributing circulars to their contributors stating that increases in their contribution rates are being caused because the Commonwealth is not prepared to meet increased doctors' fees and, in Victoria increased hospital charges. It is said that the Commonwealth will not pay the additional cost out of taxpayers' funds. It is said to be wrong that money should be collected by means of taxation for a Government health scheme but it is said to be right for the same money to be channelled to private organisations so that they can distribute the money. 
Sixty per cent of the moneys paid out by medical funds to contributors comes directly from taxpayers' funds and not from the funds of the contributors; 18 per cent of medical costs are in fact met by the contributors themselves from resources outside the rebate they get from the funds; SO per cent of the moneys distributed in rebates on hospital costs comes direct from taxpayers' funds at the moment and a small amount of the remainder comes from the patient and the rest from the funds. So in both instances the funds are providing less than half of the moneys which are being paid to contributors. The difference between that set-up and the Government scheme is marginal. The only real difference is that under our scheme efficiency is guaranteed. In the present situation some funds are running a rort. 
I would suggest that at least one major fund in New South Wales should be called before the Commonwealth Government and asked to explain its position with relation to special accounts. I think most members will be aware of the provisions of the special accounts legislation, which was a welcome relief - I do not deny that - to chronically ill patients whose rebates from funds previously had stopped after 12 weeks in hospital in any one year. The special accounts legislation enables the funds to transfer a patient to special account on their own initiative without reference to the Commonwealth when they consider that that patient is chronically ill. One fund in New South Wales - the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia - has 28 per cent of the contributors in that State but has 40 per cent of the special account patients. I think that any honourable member who is prepared to approach this matter in a rational manner and examine it will realise that this fund is in fact collecting taxpayers' funds under false pretences. I am sure that an examination of its books will show this, because it is just not reasonable that a fund with 28 per cent of contributors would have collected together 40 per cent of the special account patients in that State. 
This fund is -building up huge reserves by transferring its liabilities to the taxpayer through the special account and is using the revenue it is raising in this manner to run a scurrilous campaign of publicity against die Government. That is the way it is using the funds it is raising in this manner and I think it is about time a full investigation was made into this fund by the Commonwealth Department concerned. If it is found that what I have said is a fact the fund should be deregistered in accordance with the legislation. Both means of publicity are being financed by the public. The Government is providing information on a proposed health scheme. It is providing what is classified as a green paper in this House - a discussion paper - and shortly the Government will introduce legislation. 
I am talking about public discussion, and I think the honourable member is aware of that as well as I am. T think it is a good thing that a government can provide for considerable public discussion on such a major scheme in order that faults and possible errors in planning can be eliminated before the scheme is introduced rather than trying to patch it up afterwards. I hope that the public discussion that is taking place will make sure that the scheme, when it is introduced, will be the best for the public, the best for the people in the medical services and the best for those people in Australia who have the misfortune to become ill. 
I move: 
That this debate be now adjourned and the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for a later hour of the day. 
No. I was about to ask the Commitee whether it would give leave for the amendments to be taken together. Is leave granted for the amendments to be taken together? 
Earlier tonight notice was given by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of his intention to bring in a Bill for a prices referendum. This is a significant step and it will represent the secondoccasion on which the Commonwealth Government has sought powers to control prices. I have risen tonight to direct the attention of the House to the reaction of the official Opposition to this matter. The Parliamentary Labor Party yesterday decided that the Cabinet should consider the holding of such a referendum. Tonight a decision was taken, as the House is well aware, that a Bill should be prepared and brought in. For several months the Opposition has been saying that the problems of inflation - the problems of rising prices in Australia - should be tackled as a matter of urgency. I think that I should read to the House part of the Opposition's official reply to what is the most positive action this Government can take, that is, to seek power to control prices. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said this: 
This is a panic measure.  Mr Whitlam  did not want it at the start of the week. He was bullied into it by his Caucus. There has been no proper Government assessment in the formulation of the policy. It is ad hoc and ill-conceived. 
He also said: 

 Mr Whitlam could be tackling inflation by now if he had adopted the measures suggested by me months ago and endorsed by State Liberal leaders. I have called for a temporary prices and income freeze and the development of a co-operative prices and incomes policy. 
That is a lot of words. I was at the Constitutional Convention last week, as was the Leader of the Opposition. In the relevant debate there the Prime Minister asked the Premiers of Victoria and New South Wales whether they would cede to the Commonwealth on a temporary basis the power to control prices. The result was, as we expected, that they refused. They said that they were prepared to co-operate provided that the Prime Minister was prepared to hand over the economic management of the country to them. Not even a Liberal Prime Minister would do that. The States are not in a position to assess the national economic position. They are certainly not in a position to exercise economic control over the whole of the Commonwealth. Their interests ire the interests of their own States. Rarely do Premiers of any political colour show an appreciation of national needs. It is clear from the Leader of the Opposition's statement that the Opposition is not sure whether it will oppose the Bill to hold the referendum or whether it will oppose the referendum itself. 
 I can assure the honourable member for Calare that the Bill will seek to do only one thing, that is, to add the word prices' to section 51 of the Constitution. I am sure that even members of the Australian Country Party would be able to understand a Bill couched in those terms. If the Opposition were to oppose the passage of that Bill or the referendum it could only be said that it believes that the Australian government, unlike any other comparable government in the world, should be asked to fight inflation with one hand tied behind its back. The States, particularly the major States, which happen to have Liberal or Country Party governments, are not prepared to deal in any way with the question of rising prices. The psychology of such a situation is as follows: If a person who is working for wages were asked to restrict his demands for increases whilst you publicly stated that you were not prepared in any way to ask the person who is fixing the prices of the goods he must sell to exercise restraint over those prices you would very smartly be told to go and jump in the lake. The previous Government sought for years - 23 of them - to bring about a position where there was a controlled market situation in respect to incomes but no control whatsoever over the prices of the goods which persons whose incomes were being controlled must buy. In the early 1950s we had a situation in which the quarterly cost of living adjustments were discontinued and in which wage rises for those people whose wages were controlled by the courts and government - the State governments in particular - were practically fixed; yet prices continued to rise at levels as great as or greater than they had when wages rose on an automatic basis to meet price increases. 
In the statement to which I have referred the Leader of the Opposition said that the Government could have been tackling the inflation problem if it had accepted its offer. The fact of the matter is he made the offer as Leader of the Opposition knowing full well that he had no power whatsoever to carry out any offer that he made and knowing full well that the State Premiers would not cooperate. As late as last week the Premiers indicated clearly in public that they were not prepared to co-operate in ceding to the Commonwealth, even on a temporary basis, powers to deal with the problem of prices. For the Leader of the Opposition to issue a statement that the action to be taken by the Government is a panic measure does not indicate that we should hold out much hope for the future of this country if, by accident, he should ever become Prime Minister. It is easy to say that the Commonwealth should do this and the Commonwealth should do that, but the fact of the matter is that the Commonwealth has no guaranteed power - a power which cannot be at least challenged in the courts - even to ask those persons who increase prices unreasonably to justify the increases. It may well be that the power does exist but its use can be frustrated by long court action taken by those people who can afford to take such action - and they are not the members of the general public. This referendum will be held quickly if the Opposition co-operates in both Houses and allows the Bill to be passed quickly through both Houses. The matter will hang fire for possibly 9 months - 6 months is an absolute minimum - if the Opposition decides to frustrate the holding of the referendum in order that its friends can make the adjustments to prices that are necessary so they will not lose their precious profits-- 
Don't kid yourself. Members of the Opposition would do anything rather than affect the profits of their friends. They would even restrict the wages of the people on the lowest possible incomes. They have done that on many occasions. It is up to the Opposition in both Houses of the Parliament to decide whether it wants the Commonwealth Parliament to have sufficient power to deal with a situation which the present Opposition partly created and which is part of the world economic management scene. It is up to the Opposition to decide where it stands. I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a statement issued to the Press by the Leader of the Opposition. I would hope that the Opposition would have no objection. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is there any evidence to support the statement by the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that control of prices without control of wages will not be effective, when in fact during the period of office of the Government in which they were Treasurer and Minister for Labour and National Service they constantly practised the policy of controlling wages and deliberately avoiding any action on prices? Will the Prime Minister indicate whether he feels that uncontrolled prices are one of the major psychological factors in creating demands for increased wages? 
Order! If honourable gentlemen wish to continue to interrupt they will only be wasting the time of the honourable member who is trying to address the Chair. That is something that should not be tolerated and I ask them to be quiet. 
Order! The question now is 'That I report the Bill without amendment'. Those of that opinion say 'aye'; to the contrary 'no'. The 'ayes' have it. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Adoption of Report 
Motion (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) proposed: 
That the report of the Committee be adopted. 
Order! This is not question time. The Leader of the Australian Country Party was given the privilege of making his address to the House in silence and I suggest that he allow the same privilege to other honourable members. 
Today, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made it clear that if the Opposition wanted to bring in a  companion  Bill to allow for an incomes policy, as far as the Government was concerned that Bill's progress through both Houses of the Parliament would be facilitated. So, effectively, members of the Opposition would get the 2 things they want - a prices-incomes policy and the power to apply such a policy. Confronted with the challenge to act on what they had been promising, they backed down. Members of the Opposition say that they are for a prices freeze but are against the authority to apply a prices program. I do not know what they mean. This is the confused, economic thinking of the Opposition, if indeed one could call it economic thinking, because it is a clear bastardisation of any economic concept to talk in the way in which they have been talking about handling the economy. Let us not forget that these are the people who handled the economy for the past 23 years; these are the people who handled the affairs of this nation in the last 3 years in a state of utter, complete and consistent confusion; the people who lurched into a major recession in 1971 and for most of 1972 and then jumped head first into a boom in the latter part of 1972. The problems we have today were largely seeded in that period. 
What sort of authority do members of the Opposition want? It seems, by implication - although it has never been clearly spelt out - that they will rely on authority ceded to them by the States on a very temporary basis, authority that could be withdrawn at any time. But let us look at the process of ceding this power. If we have to rely on the States, the operation will come in at a very uneven rate and the result will be that we will have not one conductor conducting what should be a very finely tuned orchestra but several conductors beating different times for the orchestra to perform to. One could well imagine what the performance of handling the economy would be, for instance, under the direction of a man like  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland. The least pressure from vested business interests would result in the complete destruction of any program which should be applied. 
But why prevent the people of Australia from expressing their opinion on this proposal? All that is proposed is that the people of Australia should be allowed to indicate how they feel about this proposal to give price control power to the Government. Those are the important and the operative words - to give price control power to the Government. It is not designed to impose some system of price controls. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  was demanding that there should be some specific definition of prices and how the system would be applied. He does not seem to understand that the economy is a very vital sort of thing and that there are constant changes occurring in the way in which it per forms. There are movements between sectors. There are problems of disequilibrium developing in particular sectors which filter through to other sectors and so the whole imbalance can run through the economy. Or, conversely, when the economy is being brought back into balance, the way in which the disequilibria are being brought back into control can be a very uneven sort of thing. Further consideration must be given to the different levels of productivity between sectors of industry. Accordingly, we cannot apply some flat, simplified version of what price control is going to be. Presumably, this it what the Leader of the Country Party was thinking about. All we are asking for is authority so that we can have available to us a broad power - an economic tool - so that it can be applied selectively to regulate the economy at appropriate times. It would not be applied at any particular time but at appropriate times. 
This proposal is not an attack on profits. Of course, the performance of the private sector of the economy is vital to the overall health of the economy of the nation. We are conducting a mixed economy and we are not opposed to profits. We are opposed to unreasonable levels of profits, but this is not the argument when we are discussing the issue of inflation. Inflation has many deleterious effects. It redistributes money, usually from the most needy people in the community to those who have much less need. It redistributes money away from investment in production to nonproductive sectors of the economy as people hedge against inflation. They take money out of shares, from the stock market and from savings where the money could be distributed into productive investment and they put it into hedges against inflation. They put it into real estate so that they can make a quick capital gain and the more this occurs the more the inflation mentality is reinforced and the greater the problem becomes that we have to handle. Price control must be seen as only one of the mechanisms which would be used by State governments to try to put some sort of control on or some sort of balance back into the way the economy is operating. It will give, in fact, an opportunity for a pause and provide a bridging effect. It will enable a selectively used and discreetly applied price control system - low profile, if you like - to prevail. It will enable an appropriate and broad range of policies to be brought into operation to back up what is being done. 
The Government has already taken action with measures such as the tariff cut, revaluation, the Prices Justification Tribunal, strengthening the capital inflow and adjusting bond interest rates to soak up the excess liquidity which was injected into the economy by the last Government. But more needs to be done. The Government certainly will not move in with a heavy hand to flatten out the economy and cause massive unemployment and breakdowns on the production side of industry so that demand can be hammered into the ground as a means of controlling the economy. We aim at using much more selective controls. Price control has been used in other parts of the world, with considerable success in some countries. Contrary to what has been said, many countries have found great value in the system of price control. 
Three European countries - Austria, Belgium and France - survived the 1969-71 inflation without a dramatic acceleration of price or severe peaks and troughs in the level of real demand pressures. Austria permanently uses a system of price surveillance. Evidence is available to show that countries overseas do find some significant benefit from price control, although there is always a dispute about how successful price income policies can be. By and large there is a tendency for a heavyweight of the balance to fall on the side of the conclusions that it provides at least breathing space. There is this benefit in a time of extreme difficulty in handling the economy of a country. 
There are other benefits, some of which I will outline. Price control can bring a quick adjustment in the economy. For instance, it can reinforce action taken to restrict or to control restrictive trade practices. As things stand at the moment, when effective action is taken by the Trade Practices Tribunal there is often a lag between the decision being made and the benefits starting to flow through to the community. The benefits flow through in  a  graded sort of way. Again, in the case of changes in the exchange rate, the benefits flowing through to the community can involve  a  significant lag. It is undeniable that exchange rate adjustments can bring benefits to the community. The revaluation of December last has resulted in a 5 per cent reduction in import prices. That reduction can be achieved rather speedily. We can telescope normal lags to the public benefit with a system of price control, with the authority to use those controls when it is necessary to do so. 
We can back up the decisions of the Tariff Board. We can cut lags between the time when the Tariff Board decides to reduce tariff levels and when the benefits are passed on to the public. If ever an area needed some sort of scrutiny, some sort of backing up force to ensure that the public benefited from the downward adjustments in tariffs, it is this area of tariff protection. In the situation that we have now of mounting inflation overseas at  a  faster rate in most cases than in this country, the tariffs too often provide a very generous buffer for people who wish to exploit consumers with excessive prices. We can back up the arbitration wage agreement procedures by ensuring that, where it is justifiable, increased wages are not passed on immediately in increased costs. Because of the relative lack of competitiveness in the Australian economy and the uneven degree of productivity between the various organisations within an industry, one frequently finds that the pacesetter, the most efficient industry, is able to increase prices after a wage adjustment sufficient to allow the least efficient producer to continue operating in that particular sector. This in turn means that' there is a tremendous windfall going to the most efficient producer. It means that a very heavy profit is returned to that producer. It means also that there is an unjustifiably high price being imposed on the community. Again, with a system of price control selectively and discreetly applied, things such as this can be avoided. 
The area of land prices is clearly one that needs some sort of control and authority to bring balance back into what has become complete insanity. Goodness knows how young people will ever afford the cost of a house and land in their own time. Land prices today represent, in altogether too many cases, a completely unjustifiable exploitation of the public. There is a large economic rent transfer from the rest of the community to a small group who are land owners. In a situation of inflation as at present, with a complete inability to apply successful restraints and because the States will not do so, this sort of situation compounds itself. It becomes intractible and aggravates a very serious problem of inflation. I will give one illustration. A house and land in Sydney in 1968 cost a little more than $15,000. This year the cost exceeds $27,700, and it is mounting. Earlier I heard concern expressed by the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  that in seeking this authority from the public to control prices where needed - the public would decide whether we should have the authority - we would be denying the States of a power which they have. It is a power which they rarely use and it makes little impression on the general public to hear members of the Opposition talk about a temporary ceding of powers to the Commonwealth and doing things which the States already have the power to do. The case I just cited in Sydney is a clear example of how the States have authority but are too reckless to use the authority. 
There are other benefits from a system of price control. A sufficiently effective and acceptable system of price control can have an influence on the wage bargaining climate and expectations, if it is known that there is a system in operation which will exercise reasonable restraint on prices. We are not arguing that prices have to be nailed to the floor and kept there forever; we are saying that the movements have to be .reasonably justified. Of course, we are thinking largely of key areas of the economy and not the whole economy - not everything from ocean liners down to shoe laces but the key ingredients in the economy which have such multiplier effects on the overall costs which the community finally bears. With this sort of influence on the wage bargaining climate and expectation there is less effort on the part of trade unions to try to hedge against increases in costs which will inevitably occur if we do not have some sort of authority to regulate them. 
Earlier I mentioned the influence of the inflation mentality. The power to administer this must be national. It cannot take place in any sort of jig-saw framework. It cannot take place in a jig-saw framework where a part might drop out at any given time, and probably the crucial time, when a State government is under some political pressure from interested groups within its particular constituency. It must be carried out as part of an overall program and must be carried out with a varying sort of application. So, where the matter is needed comprehensively the control will be applied comprehensively. I can see that happening only in a most critical sort of situation. By and large it will be applied in a selective way which will benefit the community. 
I repeat that by and large the State governments, with the exception of South Australia, so far have shown a complete reluctance to act responsibly in this field. We are speaking about prices and we are also speaking about a broad range of economic tools to use in controlling the economy. The Opposition had the challenge before it. It could bring in a companion Bill - we will facilitate its movement through this House - to allow the application of an incomes policy. But what are Opposition members talking about when they talk about incomes? Are they talking about farm incomes? The consumer price index has increased by about 5.7 per cent since December last year. Forty per cent of that increase has been solely due to one section, to the cost of meat. This of course in turn raises other interesting and complex issues about the control of inflation in an economy. What is to be done about imported inflation - an issue which has been derided by the previous Treasurer in the last Government. If we are to talk about incomes injecting inflation into the economy, are we to make a broad-ranging attack? Is the Opposition proposing it? Is the Country Party proposing such an attack on farm incomes? Wool growers sold the same amount of wool last year as they sold the year before, but at twice the price. In 1972 wool netted $660m. In 1973 the same volume of wool netted $l,238m. Is the Country Party proposing to cut back on the income that has gone to wool producers? Is it proposing to cut back on the increase in farm income, which went up nearly 25 per cent, or more than $900m, in the last 12 months? Members of the Country Party know they have been hoist by their own petard. They have known all along that they never meant with any sincerity to take any positive and constructive action to see that a prices-income policy could be applied at the national level as a national policy in this country. The first occasion on which they are tested they backslide, and they will backslide all the way out of the door of this Parliament rather than face up and back up their brave words during the winter recess with action to introduce a companion Bill in this House during the currency of this week's sitting to ensure that our proposals to seek power through a referendum for a prices policy can be supplemented by proposals to have power obtained from the community for an incomes policy. 
Order! I have listened to the honourable gentleman's speech. The word 'little' with respect to the remarks of the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party is nearly a misrepresentation of what I said. The Minister is talking about the financial aspects of the Bill which are the reasons for the amendment and the basis of the clause. The amendment seeks to alter the amount of money involved. I think the Minister is talking within the general latitude given at the moment. When he was off the track, I called him to order. 
That the  question  be now put. 
Question put. 
I suggest that the Minister for Defence should deal with the reasons why Standing Orders should not be suspended. 
I can only repeat that it was not my intention that Standing Orders be suspended. What 
I said to the honourable member for Kooyong - I repeat it now and I would not retract or move away from this point - was that I suggested that if the honourable member for Kooyong and members of the Opposition believed that this matter should be dealt with as a censure motion, the honourable member no doubt would have the opportunity to move that motion. That is precisely what I said to the honourable member for Kooyong. I made no suggestion about the suspension of Standing Orders; that is a different matter entirely. If the honourable member for Kooyong wants to deal with these matters, the Opposition will have a chance to raise them, not only during the debate on the Estimates but also, of course, by proposing a matter of public importance for discussion or by using any other appropriate form of the House. 
I call the honourable member for New England. 
-I wish to inform the House of the following nominations of senators and members to be members of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory:  Mr James, Mr Wallis  and  Mr Fitzpatrick  have been nominated by the Prime Minister;  Mr Kelly  has been nominated by the Leader of the Opposition;  Mr Calder  has been nominated by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in this House. Senators Keeffe and McLaren have been nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate;  Senator Marriott  has been nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate;  Senator Webster  has been nominated by the Leader of the Country Party in that House. 
Order! The honourable member for New England will need leave to move 2 amendments together. Is leave granted? 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member that he speak to the amendment before the Chair. He is ranging pretty wide of it at the moment. 
I suggest to the honourable member that he should move his amendment. 
Omit from paragraph (a) proposed sub-sections (2), (2a) and (2b) and substitute the following subsections: " ' (2a) An officer of the Public Service who occupies, or is temporarily performing the duties of, an office of Inspector, Senior Inspector or Inspector-in-Charge under the  Public Service Act  1922-1973 in the Department of Labour or a person temporarily employed under that Act as an Inspector, Senior Inspector or Inspector-in-Charge in that Department is an Inspector for the purposes of this Act.  (2b) The Minister may authorize an officer of the Public Service of the Commonwealth who is not an officer referred to in sub-section (2a) to perform the duties of an Inspector.';". 
I have moved my amendment in the form in which I have handed it to the  Clerk.  By leave of the Minister which I now seek, I have included in it the additional figure '(2)'. 
Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Moreton resume his seat or remain silent. 
As the Minister knows, but would not be prepared to admit to the Committee, this will undermine the position of the elected officers of the particular trade union concerned. If this Minister is prepared to build up the activities and the force and the strength of the shop stewards in this country he will do so at the expense of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I believe that would he contrary to the best interests of the work force of this country. I say by way of summary that the impact of this clause, regrettable and retrogressive in its implications and application, will add considerably to the power of shop stewards. Without justification it will provide an unwarranted protection to employees and will place an unreasonable burden of proof on employers. I would have hoped that the honourable gentleman would have been prepared to pay some heed to the problems involved. The Opposition parties have proposed an amendment to clause 6 of the Bill which I believe to be responsible and constructive. The Minister may recall the remarks which I made on this provision in the previous session of this Parliament. Apparently the Government has chosen to persist with that provision in spite of the very detrimental impact and effect that it will have on the industrial jurisdiction and particularly on relations not simply between employers and employees in the industrial jurisdiction but more especially, in terms of the interest which the Minister seeks to serve, between employees and shop stewards and union officials, particularly member of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. This is a bad provision. It calls for rejection by this Committee. I believe that it will be rejected by the Parliament, if not by the House of Representatives because of the factor of numbers, then by the Senate. 
I close my remarks with a simple reference again to procedure. The Minister and the Government may feel that they are gaining time in this chamber because of the farce which they have made of the debate on this Bill. But I foreshadow that, whatever they gain here, they will lose far more in another place. In that sense, I do not accuse the Minister for Labour who is at the table. I regret that this Committee has been subjected to a process which demeans the parliamentary institution of this country as much as it debases it. 
Order! The time for debate has expired. The question now is that the remainder of the Bill and postponed clauses and circulated amendments be agreed to and the Bill be reported with amendments. 
Clause 15. 
Section 23 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1) the words ', at least one Arbitration Commissioner and at least one Conciliation Commissioner' and substituting the words and two or more Commissioners'. 
Clause 32. 
Section 73 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections (3) and (4) and substituting the following sub-sections: - 
In relation to industrial questions, the powers of the Commission under sub-section (2d) of section 28, and under sections 31, 34 and 35, are exercisable by a Full Bench and not otherwise. 
In relation to industrial questions, the powers of the Commission with respect to conciliation may be exercised by a Commissioner assigned by the  President  for the purposes of this Division, or by a Commissioner assigned by the  President  for the purposes of the particular industrial question.'. 
Clause 33. 
Section 78 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections (3) and (4) and substituting the following sub-sections: - 
In relation to industrial questions, the powers of the Commission under sub-section (2d) of section ' 28, and under sections 31, 34 and 35, are exercisable by a Full Bench, and not otherwise. 
In relation toindustrial questions, the powers of the Commission with respect to conciliation may be excercised by a Commissioner assigned by the  President  for the purposes of this Division, or by a Commissioner assigned by the  President  for the purposes of the particular industrial question.'. 
Clause 34. 
Section 84 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections (2) and (2a) and substituting the following sub-sections: - 
In relation to industrial questions, the powers of the Commission under sub-section (2d) of section 28, and under sections 31, 34 and 35, are exercisable by a Full Bench, and not otherwise. (2a) In relation to industrial questions, the powers of the Commission with respect to conciliation may be exercised by a Commissioner assigned by the  President  for the purposes of this Division, or by a Commissioner assigned by the  President  for the purposes of the particular industrial question.'. 
Circulated amendments. 
In clause 15, omit "two or more Commissioners", substitute " at least one Commissioner ". 
In clause 32, omit the clause and substitute the following clause: - " 32. Section 73 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted - 73. (1) Subject to this section, the powers of the Commission in respect of industrial questions are exercisable by the Commission constituted by the Presidential Member assigned by the  President  for the purposes of this Division or, subject to any directions of that Presidential Member, by, a Commissioner assigned by the  President  for the purposes of this Division, and not otherwise. 
Subject to sub-section (3), the powers of the Commission in respect of a particular industrial question may  be  exercised by the  President  or by a Presidential Member assigned by the  President  for the purpose. 
In relation to industrial questions, the powers of the Commission under sub-section (2d) of section 28, and under sections 31, 34 and 35, are exercisable by a Full Bench and not otherwise.'.". 
In clause 33, omit the clause and substitute the following clause: - " 33. Section 78 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted - 78. (1) Subject to this section, the powers of the Commission inrespect of industrial questions are exercisable by the Commission constituted by the Presidential Member assigned by the  President  for the purposes of this Division or, subject to any directions of that Presidential Member by a Commissioner assigned by the  President  for the purposes of this Division, and not otherwise. 
Subject to sub-section (3), the powers of the Commission in respect of a particular industrial question may be exercised by the  President  or by a Presidential Member assigned by the  President  for the purpose. 
In relation to industrial questions, the powers of the Commission under sub-section (2D) of section 28, and under sections 31, 34, and 35, are exercisable by a Full Bench, and not otherwise.'.". 
In clause 34, omit the clause and substitute the following clause: - " 34. Section 84 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting sub-sections (1), (1a), (2) and (2a) and substituting the following sub-sections: - 
Subject to this section, the powers of the Commission in respect of industrial questions are exercisable by the Commission constituted by the Presidential Member assigned by the  President  for the purposes of this Division or, subject to any directions of that Presidential Member, by a Commissioner assigned by the  President  for the purposes of this Divi- " sion, and not otherwise. 
Subject to sub-section (2a), the' powers of the Commission in respect of a particular industrial question may be exercised by the  President  or by a Presidential Member assigned by the  President  for the purpose. (2a) In relation to industrial questions, the powers of the Commission under sub-section (2d) of section 28, and under sections 31, 34 and 35, are exercisable by a Full Bench, and not otherwise.'.". 
Question put. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What committees have been established to inquire into the future of the defence aircraft industry. 
What machinery exists for consultation with employees in the industry. 
Will he make an immediate statement to the House assuring Government employees in the industry that their accrued rights will be fully preserved and that they will not suffer disadvantage in any rearrangement of the industry. 
Is the Minister for Services and Property aware of statements made in this House and in the Senate that persons resident in the Australian mainland Territories are lesser citizens than persons resident in the original States? Is it a fact that both Houses of this Parliament have full jurisdiction to pass laws in respect of both of those Territories yet persons in those Territories have no say in one of the Houses of this Parliament? ls this in line with the principles of democratic practice in modern society? Can the Minister indicate whether he has been able to convince members, especially those people who claim to represent the Northern Territory, that they should be entitled to representation in Parliaments where laws respecting them can be made? 
Order! The time allotted for the debate has expired. 
Question put: 
That clause 1 be agreed to. 
I think that it is fair to say that the pressures which have come on this Parliament and the fact that the membership of the Parliament at this stage of its evolution has not developed into a Canberra dwelling group - in the case of most of the major parliaments of the world members dwell in their national capitals - are not helping the standing of the Parliament or the level of debate here. But I think that it is somewhat unfair to say that the activities in the Parliament are altogether irrelevant. It is true that more amendments have been accepted in this Parliament in the last 6 months to 8 months than were accepted here in the last 6 years to 8 years. This is, I suppose, more an expression of the political needs of the day than the result of the force of the arguments. But it is not reasonable to blame the Parliament if the force of the arguments is not good. I think that members must accept responsibility for the present state of affairs. 
Let me refer to the 2 most backward steps that this Parliament has made. The first was to provide broadcast relay facilities in the offices of members. This is an extreme convenience and I do not think that any member would give it up easily. But this facility does enable members to hear the debates without being physically present in the chamber. This fact must detract from the performance of speakers in the House. The other backward step is, as mentioned by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  the reading of speeches. It is much easier to appear to be a first class  speaker  if one writes one's speech in advance or someone writes it for one and then it is presented to the Parliament. This is a very easy thing to do. In fact, provided one is a good reader, one can be the most eloquent of persons. But this practice does not necessarily add to debates. 
Possibly more important, the Parliament and the Parliament's performance of its duties are seriously detracted from by the role that the 
Standing Orders, which after all are decided mainly on a free vote of the House, provide to the  Speaker  of the House. Under our Standing Orders, the  Speaker  does not have the right to reject a motion for the gag. The  Speaker  has very little right under the Standing Orders with relation to questions - the nature of questions or answers to questions. 
That is not easy especially from a House with 125 members. If we were to elect as  Speaker  of the House the member who had the most marginal seat in the Parliament and he were to become the non-Party  Speaker  of the House, his casting vote would be an extremely valuable vote in a House whose membership totals an odd number. Governments could fall on that casting vote. I do not think that the solution is quite as politically easy as the honourable member for Isaacs suggests. I am not naive enough to think that we can do it as easily. I would like to see such action made possible. But I do not think that in a House of 125 members, with the closeness of the contest at election time and the narrow margins by which governments are often elected, a solution of that type - the giving away of one seat - is one which any political party in this place will easily accept. 
What has to be done if this Parliament is to process the business which it should process? We do have a number of committees. But we are reaching the stage where members are not able to give service to the committees that have been appointed and of which they are members. They cannot do so because of the limitations on their time. The proposition that I put to the Committee of the Whole is that it may well be that we need to alter the procedures used in the passage of Bills through this chamber. At the moment, because each matter has to be legislated and because the pressures are growing - the previous Government had this trouble, we will have this trouble, and future governments will have this trouble in far greater detail - Bills must be passed and debate must take place on those Bills. Yet, the Parliament should be the place where the really major debates of the nation can take place. That situation does not exist at the moment. I believe that some solution to this problem should be found. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was making the point that because of the increasing pressure of legislation to be passed through this Parliament it is becoming more and more difficult for the Parliament to debate in any depth the substantial matters which should be debated in this Parliament. The time factor is not going to improve with the passage of years. It will get worse. The Parliament will bog down in a situation in which it will be dealing with nothing other than legislation unless other methods are adopted by which we may consider legislation that comes before us. 
I would like to outline a proposal which I feel should be given consideration in regard to dealing with legislation in the second reading and Committee stages. At present all legislation is debated and passed through all stages in this chamber. This is not the case in all parliaments. I feel that it would be possible to devise a system whereby the House divided into 3 or more committees. I think 3 committees would most likely be an ideal number in view of the present number of representatives in this chamber. Under this proposal a Bill, having been introduced into the Parliament and the second reading speech having been made, would be referred to one of the committees where the second reading and Committee stages of the Bill would be completed. The Bill would then come back to the Parliament for report and passage through the third reading, which is the passing stage. Protection would have to be built into such a system to enable a major Bill to be dealt with in the House if the Opposition desired that it be dealt with in the House. I think that the best way of doing that would be by providing that if a Bill had reached the second reading stage it would automatically be referred to one of the committees unless, say, one-third of the members or some such number were to indicate that they wanted the Bill debated in what would be a plenary session of the House. 
A committee system of this nature would not restrict the rights of members to debate legislation. It would not restrict the Parliament's control over legislation. Such a system may well furnish better debates on some of the smaller but important Bills which at the moment are rushed through the Parliament purely because of a lack of time. Obviously structural alterations to this Parliament would have to take place before such a system could operate. There would have to be committee rooms which could accommodate the 40 or more members who would participate in these meetings. It would be possible to adopt this system by the Parliament meeting for, say, an hour and then dividing into the 3 committees to discuss 3 matters at the same time. In this way better and fuller discussion of legislation could take place. When the legislation came back to this place I should think that debate would be restricted to the report stage and the third reading stage of the legislation. I think it is important that we look at means by which we can streamline the processes of passing legislation through this Parliament, at the same time enabling the Parliament to give adequate and proper consideration for the important matters that the national Parliament should deal with. I would like to deal with this matter more fully but I do not think that this is the appropriate time. Unless the Parliament gives serious consideration to how it is going to cope with the increased work load that confronts it, the Parliament will become a sausage machine, turning out Bills and dealing with little else. That is the evolution that confronts the Parliament, purely because of the increased pressure of work that confronts the Australian Government. 
Order! If the honourable member for Kennedy does that again, I will take the necessary action. He is not sitting in his correct seat. 
He is deliberately interjecting in a manner which is not becoming to the House. 
I reject the argument that has been put forward by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  and an argument which was put forward during a previous debate in the Senate on this matter. I do not believe the statement that people who live in the Northern Territory are not Australians. I do not believe the statement that people who live in the Australian Capital Territory are not Australians. That is what is being said. It has been said in this House and in the other House that the people who live in the mainland territories of Australia are to be considered as having no better right to Australian citizenship than to people who live in Norfolk Island, the Cocos (Keeling) Islands group and other trust territories. The people who live in these Territories are not under the trusteeship of Australia; they are Australians disfranchised by the Constitution. In the initial stages the Constitution was drafted by State governments with State outlooks and they did not consider people who did not live in the colonies of that time. Whilst the States now talk about sovereign States there were no States initially; they were colonies. 
The residents of the mainland Territories are just as much entitled to be represented in Houses of Parliament where laws affecting their welfare or levying taxes on them can be made as were the people of the United States of America at the time of their War of Independence. I suggest that the attitude being put forward in this matter by the Liberal Party is the same as that which was put forward in the British Parliament at that time, namely, that people can be governed by a parliament in which they have no say whatever and which can make laws on their behalf but they are not entitled to be represented as citizens of that country. What utter rubbish it is for any member of this House or the other place to suggest that the Senate is a States House. One would be laughed out of any serious discussion if one tried to prove that the Senate votes on State lines. It is not very long ago - within the last 3 years - that a State of Australia directed its senators to vote in a certain way on a certain question. The senators representing that State, when the vote was taken in the Senate, split on Party lines. 
Do not let us have childish nonsense. That is all it is. I suggest that the Liberal Party believes this argument; otherwise it would not have put up one of its most junior members to lead in an important debate such as this. It is childish nonsense to suggest that the Senate is anything but a Party House. It is a House where people are elected on a proportional representation basis. With only 3 exceptions, no member of the Senate would be there if he did not have his Party's endorsement and he would not stay there if he did not play the game by the Party which sends him there. Let us at least act like adults on this question. The suggestion made by the honourable member on behalf of his own Party that the Liberal Party could not get one-third of the votes in the Australian Capital Territory where the Public Service of Australia is based, where the residents are the people most likely in the best position in Australia to judge the performance of the Australian Government, I think is an indictment of his own Party. 
If the Liberal Party could get them all I find it hard to understand why the leading spokesman for that Party said that although, with 2 senators being elected at one time on a proportional representation basis, his Party would require only 33 per cent of the vote plus one to get a senator elected, the Australian Labor Party would get the 2 senators for the Australian Capital Territory. 
The honourable member's argument against this was that we would get 3 senators to one.  His  whole basis of argument was that we were trying to distort the numbers in the Senate. The facts of the matter are that these Bills are designed to give this representation without altering the balance of power in the Senate. That is what it is all about and we all know that. Surely even schoolboys know that. I do not want to delay the House for long. 
The position of the Australian Country Party on this question is very interesting. I understand the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  will follow me in this debate. It will be interesting to see whether he will still stick to the position which he held before when the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  sat beside me on this bench and voted for this legislation or whether he now accepts the argument which is being put forward by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and which was put forward in the Senate by a number of senators, that people who live in the Northern Territory are not Australians and are not entitled to be fully represented in the Australian Parliament. If that argument is valid and if the argument put forward by the honourable member for Petrie is valid, I challenge the Liberal Party to move an amendment to the Commonwealth Electoral Act to take the Territory members out of this House. This House is as much a part of the Australian Parliament as is the Senate. If the people in the Territories are not Australians for the purpose of electing senators, why are they Australians for the purpose of electing members of the House of Representatives? No one would seriously challenge the right of the honourable member for the Northern Territory to be here, except his opponent at the next election, and he would be only trying to replace him. No one would challenge the right of the Territorians to be represented here and have full voting rights. No one would do that. Apparently the spokesmen for the Liberal Party who are now putting forward the proposition that people who live in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are not Australians are the exceptions. They are saying that those people must be ranked beside the people who reside on Cocos Island, Norfolk Island and the other Trust Territories and not be regarded as full Australians. I conclude by saying that I think the most ludicrous suggestion I have ever heard in my life was the one which came from the other side of the House that next the Government will be seeking representation of Antarctica in the Senate. I know that penguins would be as good members of Parliament as some honourable members on the other side of the chamber, but there is no provision in our Constitution for penguins to be given the vote. 

 Mr CALDER (Northern Territory)  0.6)- I  consider the remarks of the honourable member for Corio, who has just resumed his seat, to be wild, erratic and of no real consequence. He endeavoured to predict the way in which I will vote if the debate on this legislation comes to a vote. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is sitting at the table, also endeavoured to do so when this legislation was debated on a previous occasion. Once again I must remind the House and the people of Australia that the Australian Labor Party has in its platform a plank to abolish the Senate. That was referred to by the Minister for Services and Property when he introduced the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill 1973 on 22 May 1973. Quoting the Prime Minister  (Mr whitlam),  he said: 
It has been said quite correctly that the Australian Labor Party is In favour of the abolition of the Senate. 
The Australian Labor Party is being hypocritical in this respect, as we all know. I have been quoted by the Minister for Services and Property as being in favour of representation of the Northern Territory in the Senate. I said in 1966 that I was and I have been saying ever since that I am. Having said that, I will not back away from what I have said. 
As a Territorian, I would seek to take advantage of the opportunism with which the Australian Labor Party has introduced this legislation. I see no real reason why the Northern Territory - I am not really discussing the Australian Capital Territory in this regard - would not gain from such a situation. I believe that the people of the Northern Territory shou'd be represented in the Senate. One of the Australian Labor Party's great catch-cries is 'one vote one value'. According to the last figures I saw the Northern Territory had an enrolment of 31,000-odd on the electoral roll on 27 April. If the Northern Territory were to be represented by 2 senators it would mean that it would have 3 representatives in the Australian Parliament for that number of voters. I am all for Senate representation, but I just cannot accept the Government's expressed purpose in introducing this legislation. There may be something in what the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  has said. It may be that the Australian Labor Party is not being solicitous of the well-being of the people of the Northern Territory but is playing the numbers game. The honourable member for Corio said that residents of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are all Australians. I agree. They are very much so. In fact, I would say that if anything the people of the Northern Territory are tougher and more like Australians than a lot of the honourable members who are sitting opposite me at the moment, including the Minister. 
It has been said the people of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory should have the same rights as the people of the States. That is fair enough. But what about the referendum on prices and incomes which the Prime Minister hopes to hold on 8 December? Territorians have no right to vote in that referendum or in any other referendum. I would ask the Government, while it is being so solicitous about the people of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, to give those people the right to vote in referendums. In all sincerity I ask the Minister to give that matter consideration. 
I suggest that the honourable member talk to the clauses of the amendment. 
I assure the Government that the people of Australia while looking at the 50 or so commissions that have been set up to inquire into various aspects of government will have had their faith shaken to the roots because the Government is not prepared to wait for the findings of those commissions before it makes changes. I return to the amendments which have been made by the Senate. I am very pleased, for the sake of country people, that the Government has gone back on its intentions. I conclude by repeating that Australians from one end of the country to the other will be shocked when they recognise and feel the full implications of the other increases which were introduced with such subtlety and went beyond the comprehension and apprehension of most. 

Order! The right honourable member for Higgins will resume his seat. The honourable member for Wannon will resume his seat. 
I write to confirm the direction I conveyed to you by telephone at about 4 p.m. yesterday- 
The letter is dated 24 September - to the effect that the Snowy Mountains Council should operate the permanent works of the Authority in a manner that does not run counter to the intentions of the 35 Hour Week Committee unless- 
in so doing, the personnel associated with the- 
The letter is signed by the Minister for Minerals and Energy. 

Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the motion seconded? 
No. The honourable member would not be in order in doing so in Committee. 
For the purposes of this Act, there is hereby established a Commission by the name of the Social Welfare Commission . . . 
I believe that the people of Australia should have been informed that a social welfare commission would be established if the Australian Labor Party was elected, because this would have indicated that another government department would be established entailing the appointment of the head of the department,  deputy  heads and various other personnel. But the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made no mention of a social welfare commission in his policy speech. He said that an Australian assistance plan would be introduced but he made no mention at all of the fact that it would be necessary to establish a commission by the name of the Social Welfare Commission. I believe that the people have been misled. I turn now to clause 5 of the Bill. I repeat that such an important position in a new department as  Chairman  of the Commission should have been advertised. If that is not accepted as precedent I ask the Minister whether the positions of  deputy chairman  and 9 other commissioners will be advertised. 
It is said that this is only an interim committee and that other interim committees have operated in the past. I venture to say that there is no comparison between the establishment of the Australian Universities Commission which was appointed to do a specific task and this Commission which, according to appendix B on page IS of the Australian Assistance Plan, has in mind trying to coordinate 17 different major areas with 127 sub-headings. If one looks at this closely one finds that there is no area of our lives or activities not covered by appendix B. It lists the range of community services which can be provided and which are obviously in the mind of the Commission to provide. It covers exservicemen, legal services, services for the aged, incomes security, protective services and domiciliary services. It goes so far as to cover religious and sacred services. The 3 subheadings there are (a) churches, (b) graveyards and (c) crematoriums. This is going to be a function of the Social Welfare Commission. Anyone who thinks that it will not be a huge instrument of government has another think coming. 
What I really started to say was that it is said that this is only an interim committee which is putting out reports. It has sent out loose leaf notices telling people to write to the Social Welfare Commission if they want further reports. It is actually asking people to write to the Social Welfare Commission, which has not yet been established.  Mr Chairman,  I see that my time is running out so I will have to leave unsaid some points I wanted to raise. I think that somewhere in this report- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
This has been a remarkable debate more remarkable because from listening to the speeches that have been made it would seem that what has been said has had more to do with the name of the Prime Minister than the administration of his office. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  in his remarks, made a bitter complaint about the measly time he was allowed in which to speak in this debate. I remember complaining about the same thing when the time allowed for speaking in Esti mates debates was reduced from 15 minutes to 10 minutes during the period when the right honourable John Gorton was Prime Minister of Australia and the honourable member for Angas voted in favour of that proposition. Apparently the passage of time produces some rather strange results. This afternoon we heard from members of the Opposition speeches similar to those made years ago by honourable members who are now supporters of the Government about increases in the petrol tax. John Gorton was Prime Minister at the time when his Government increased petrol tax by 3c a gallon. Every member of the Country Party then voted for it and lauded it, so do not let us get too far- 
I may be, but if the honourable member examines the 1970 Budget he will find that the increase in revenue raised from the 3c a gallon increase on petrol was $86m. The Country Party was part of the Government at that time and supported that proposal, so do not let us kid ourselves. We are debating the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and of the Department of the Special Minister of State. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  seemed to believe that if he could use sufficient disparaging words he would not have to put forward arguments. However one of his propositions should be examined in close detail because I think it signifies rather clearly the philosophy of the Liberal Party, apparently supported by the Country Party, regarding the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
I am glad to hear the honourable member say that because I would not have thought that he was a man who believed he had no right whatever to comment on any Government decision but must come here only to vote in Parliament in support of what the Prime Minister and the Cabinet did. However that was what the honourable member for Isaacs said. He said that the people who are elected to this Parliament to support the Government have only the right to elect the Prime Minister and have no right whatever to question any decision of the Cabinet let alone take part in a debate on, and possibly reject, a decision of the Cabinet in the Party room. If the honourable member for Balaclava believes that, he should stand in this chamber and let the people he represents know that he does not believe that he should accept the responsibilities of being a member of the Parliament and, more importantly, the responsibilities of being a member of a government. 
I will repeat what the honourable member for Isaacs said because I do not think the honourable member for the Northern Territory was present and if he had been most likely he would not have understood. 
I am not trying to be personally insulting, but the honourable member is. The honourable member for Isaacs said that this country could not be run while there was a 27-man Cabinet making decisions and a 93-man Cabinet overriding those decisions. I suggest that if the parliamentary institution has any function whatever, and recognising as I think most practical politicians would, that once the decisions in the Party room are made members of the Party will support them in the House because that is the way the Westminster systems works other than on the most exceptional occasions, Cabinet decisions should be considered by members in the Party room. The honourable member for Isaacs said that once Cabinet decisions are made - he made it clear that he did not believe that all Ministers should be Ministers of the Cabinet - members of the Government Party had no right to express an opinion or to ask the Cabinet to reconsider its decisions. I remember the mess the then Government Parties got into a couple of years ago when- 
We are not in any mess at all. 
I should have thought that the honourable member would have known that if he asked a question he would be told. Honourable members are entitled to ask questions in this place. The point I am making, and I want to make it clearly, is that the Liberal Party in this chamber - this has been said by members of that Party on the front bench and not only by the honourable member for Isaacs - has expressed the clear opinion that it does not believe that those members of the Party who are not Ministers of the Cabinet have any right to express opinions in the Party room on Cabinet decisions. I ask any member opposite to deny that that is what has been said and that their leaders are saying it now. Quite clearly this is what the honourable member for Isaacs said. He said that the Government could not be run while the Caucus made decisions contrary to those of the Cabinet. 
If we are to have government by the Prime Minister or government by the Cabinet and not have a position where members of the Parliament who are not Ministers are entitled in the Party room to express their opinion, whether it be for or against the Government., we should cease going through the exercise of having meetings of the Parliament because all that should be done is once every 3 years to elect a Cabinet and members go away and forget about it, especially if people are to repudiate their responsibilities as members of the Government party when they are members of such a party. 
Normally the Prime Minister enjoys the support of his Party. On almost every issue the Cabinet enjoys the support of the Australian Labor Party. Of course, any person who comes into this chamber and says that he is going to agree with every decision that someone else makes, irrespective of what that decision is, clearly has no independent thoughts of his own. The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  has been continually interjecting. It was not long ago that he and every member of his Party - the Australian Country Party - in this chamber voted in favour of a proposal to give Senate representation to the Northern Territory and every member of the same Party in the other place voted against the same proposition. So the honourable member for the Northern Territory should not talk about making up one's own mind. 
I do not win every vote in Caucus. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)  - Order! The honourable member for the Northern Territory will cease interjecting. 
It appears as though the members of the Opposition are saying that 
Party decisions should not be made. That is the proposition which has been put on the other side of the chamber. I think that should be made quite clear. In the last couple of moments left to me in which to speak I want to make one other point which I think is relevant to the activities to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
I do not think I have said anything which has been irrelevant to the operations of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. I realise that the members of the Opposition have found what I have said about them to be offensive to them. A previous  speaker  - I think it was the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  - suggested means by which Government expenditure could be cut down, which has been the holy cry of the front bench of the Opposition. I want to point out that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  and other front bench members of the Opposition who have said repeatedly that there should be a cut down on Government expenditure have also said that the Government should increase the defence vote by $3 00m and the social services vote by over $100m. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  an Opposition spokesman, has said that the Government should have increased the health vote by $90m to pay for increased doctors' fees. Those are all published statements. The Opposition has demanded an increased expenditure by the Government of at least $490m - that is only a part of what its demands have been - while at the same time it has talked about reduced Government expenditure. The Opposition cannot have it both ways. The speeches this afternoon on the petrol tax were exactly the same as those made by a previous Opposition when the then Government increased the petrol tax. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Department of the Treasury 
Proposed expenditure, $157,723,000. 
Advance to the Treasurer 
Proposed expenditure, $50,000,000. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
On what occasions has the Australian Universities Commission asked the Victorian Government for details of Victoria's proposed country university. 
When did the Australian Government first indicate that it was prepared to consider the Victorian Government's proposals. 
When were detailed submissions made to the Australian Universities Commission by the Victorian Government. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion, upon notice: 
Are the detailed submissions on Victoria's proposed fourth university, reported to have been received on 30 July 1973, based on the criteria previously indicated by the Victorian Government. 
How many students are planned for each of the colleges at Geelong, Ballarat md Bendigo 
What degree courses and post-graduate courses are proposed in each college. 
asked the Minister for Educa tion, upon notice: 
Will he table all submissions received by the Australian Universities Commission or himself from the Victorian Government and other interested bodies relating to Victoria's fourth university. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Have any proposals been made for the establishment of a university in Ballarat, Bendigo and Geelong, which would combine the existing colleges of advanced education and teachers colleges as part of the university. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Are telegram services provided by his Department conveyed through sections of State Government equipment in some areas. 
If so, what steps are taken to ensure that messages conveyed in this manner are not intercepted by State Authorities. 
Has any complaint been made about a copy of a telegram from a Minister of the Australian Government being given to a State Premier prior to transmission to the Minister's office. 
I rise to raise a matter which is of extreme importance to this Parliament and to this House. It could have repercussions which could damage or destroy the parliamentary institution itself. Therefore, in raising it in this House, I think I am taking the only action that is possible at this stage. There are widespread rumours and some fairly substantial reports that major international organisations are, because their profit taking is threatened by the present Australian Government, seeking to purchase an election in Australia to replace the present Government. 
I think the honourable member would be closer to the source than 1 am. The situation is that very substantial amounts of money are said to be available for persons who would be disadvantaged by any action they might take in the Parliament which would result in an election; that high official office is being offered to certain persons whose careers might be interrupted or damaged. These statements are prevalent throughout this Parliament and the community. It is the responsibility of the Parliament to quash such rumours once and for all. The situation to which I draw attention is the very substantial call which is toeing made throughout the country for action to be taken in the other place to refuse supply to the Government and to override the House of Representatives - the only House which is elected by the whole of  the Australian people. By resolution of the other House of this Parliament it has excluded certain sections of the Australian community from representation in that House. It has denied them representation in the national Parliament. 
I could tell the honourable member about Marrickville. Why does he not ask me to tell him about a couple of others? This is a very serious matter. If, as has already happened in Chile, international corporations are able to buy the destruction of an elected government - 
All right. You support the actions in Chile because it was a left wing government and a right wing government took over; I am sure you would be in a shooting match now to replace the government if it suited you. Make no mistake about it. I am not sure that some leading spokesmen representing the Parties opposite have not already had talks along that line. 
I was not referring to the interjection made by the honourable member so he cannot take offence at my remark. 'The situation is that I understand one Party has already taken a decision to refuse supply. 
Mir Corbett - Name it. 
You name it. The situation - I make this statement quite categorically - is that the Senate has the power under the Constitution to refuse supply. That power is present because of an accident of time. Had the Constitution been drafted at a later time when certain events had taken place in the United Kingdom relating to matters of supply, the passage of Supply Bills in the Senate would no longer be necessary as they now are no longer necessary in the Upper House of the United Kingdom Parliament. Only the House of Commons is required to pass supply. The rejection of supply in an upper House is a step which should be taken with great care. I make these points quite clearly. Only the House of Representatives can initiate money legislation. Without the concurrence of the 
House of Representatives no Supply Bill can be passed and no funds can be spent from the Commonwealth Treasury. 
You are an opportunist of the worst type. If you remain quiet I might tell you something. 
The situation is that if a Supply Bill is passed through this House it can be agreed to or rejected by the Senate. If the Senate rejects the Supply Bill there is no obligation whatsoever on this House to pass an amended Supply Bill. I would suggest that some honourable members opposite, who are running away from their responsibilities as members of the House of Representatives, should consider that aspect, especially members opposite who are publicly stating that they will in no way interfere with the profit-taking rights of multi-national corporations even where Australia's interests are concerned. In the final analysis this is a matter which will have to be resolved in the House of Representatives. If the Senate rejects Supply even members of Parliament stop getting paid, pensioners do not get paid, the Public Service will not be paid and there will be no funds to run an election. 
I am not trying to scare honourable members. I am telling them the facts. The Senate does not, because of its own resolution, represent all Australian people. The Senate, which is not elected on a basically equal franchise, is not the House of government - the House of Representatives is. 
I am not running scared. I will be back, make no mistake about it. What I am worried about is that we might have the Government of Australia in board rooms in the United States of America. That is what I am afraid members opposite are prepared to allow. The situation which could occur in Australia after 30 November if supply is refused in the other place and this House, by majority, expresses its confidence in the Government, as it will, and refuses to pass an amended Supply Bill- 
I can count past 10, but the honourable member cannot. This House has every right to refuse to pass an amended Supply Bill at the behest of the Senate. I am asking honourable members opposite to give consideration to their positions as members of the House of Representatives. 
Have you? I ask honourable members opposite to give very serious consideration to what the situation will be if this House hands over the power of government to the Senate on a permanent basis. No party can guarantee or expect to have a majority in the Senate because of the manner in which its members are elected. Approximately half of the members of the Senate were elected when Harold Holt was Prime Minister of Australia. I think some honourable members can remember back that far. 
I will hurry up. Very strong statements have been made that multinational corporations are trying to buy an election in Australia. If an election is bought in Australia on this occasion the parliamentary institution is totally dead. 
Order! I suggest that the Minister is getting wide of the clause under discussion. This debate could be turned into a second reading debate if he continues in that vein. 
One of the other problems we felt would be encountered if we took nominees from other bodies was that responsibility was removed from the appropriate Minister. People would be placed in a position where they were not answerable to the authority which had to take the final responsibility. I can assure my colleagues opposite that we on this side of the House gave serious consideration in our original discussion to this matter of representation and we were sympathetic. You have to admit, at least, that on this side of the House some of us taking part in this debate have been talking and working on this matter for many, many years. Only a particularly biased person opposite would not admit that the Party now in Government was the one which injected education into the Australian scene as a Commonwealth matter. Consultation, participation, responsibility and representation are the principles on which this Government is working. But to actually enshrine those things in a piece of legislation designing the membership of a commission is impossible. But we are now launching ourselves on what might be called part of the Australian educational revolution. I only hope that the spirit with which the honourable member for Wannon endows the State education systems and the other bodies, with the idea of using federation as a co-operative undertaking, is the case. One of the great difficulties that this Government has faced over the last few months has been the almost complete impossibility of getting co-operation from State governments on detail and often on matters of principle. 
I represent one of the areas which needs the immediate application of all the funds that can be made available but I am not convinced that the Victorian Education Department is going to apply funds to the areas of need that are so apparent in that State because there are extraordinary constructional difficulties and so on. I only wish that we were able to get closer and continuous co-operation with our State colleagues, no matter what their parties, on these matters. If we are going to consider federation as a co-operative undertaking, the time has come for a good deal of the politics to be taken out and a lot more of the principles injected into relationships between this Government and several of the Australian mainland State governments. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Malcolm Fraser's  amendment) stand part of the clause. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Mr MalcolmFraser's)  be agreed to. 

Order! It being past 15 minutes to 11 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 22 August I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
How many hospital benefits fund contributors are on the special accounts list in each State. 
How many of these contributors are from each fund. 
Are their contributions retained by the fund or paid to the Government. 
What is the annual contribution paid by them. 
What percentage of (a) all hospital benefits fund contributors and (b) hospital benefits fund special account contributors is covered by each hospital benefits fund in each State. 
What requirements must be met before a contributor can be placed on the special account list. 
Does the Government have any check on the inclusion of patients on the special account list. 
What percentage of (a) hospital and (b) medical costs of special account contributors is met by the Government. 
Are persons who are not contributors to health insurance funds and who are chronically ill eligible to receive the same assistance as special account contributors from the Government. 
Order! The honourable gentleman will be out of order in debating the subject matter of clause 3 under clause 1. 
Is the suggestion of the Minister agreed to? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Department of Education 
Proposed expenditure, $145,351,000. 
Order! It being 15 minutes to 11 o'clock in accordance with the order of the House of 1 March I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Motton (by  Mr Gorton)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Gwydir be granted an extension of time. 
Order! I would suggest to the honourable gentleman that if he confined his remarks to the amendment, we would get on a lot further with the Bill. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order.' It being IS minutes past 10 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 1 March, I shall  report  progress. 
Progress reported. 
Is the Prime Minister  aware of statements that oil supplies from the Middle East to a number of Western countries will be reduced substantially? Will the Prime Minister inform the House what action the Australian Government intends to take to ensure that Australia's oil supplies are protected from the tremendous pressures for exports which will take place if oil supplies to the U.S.A., Britain and other Western countries are cut off? I ask the Prime Minister whether he can inform the House what Australia's position with regard to future reserves and the utilisation of the same if oil supplies from the Middle East cease. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Clauses 1 and 2 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3. 
In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears - " assets " includes property and rights of any kind and also includes money; " Australian Industry Development Corporation " or " Corporation " means the Australian Industry Development Corporation established under the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970-1973; " Board " means the Board of Directors of the Corporation; " bond " means an investment bond created under this Act; " Director " means a member of the Board; " holder ", in relation to an investment bond, means the person whose name is entered in the Register as the holder of the bond; " National Investment Fund " or " Fund " means the National Investment Fund of Australia constituted in accordance with this Act; " Register " means the Register of Investment Bonds kept in pursuance of this Act; " Supervisory Council " or " Council " means the Supervisory Council established under this Act. 
A reference in this Act to the assets of a Division of the Fund is a reference to - 
any moneys constituting that Division that are not presently invested in accordance with this Act; and 
any assets of the Corporation acquired by reason of the investment of moneys constituting that Division. 
In this Act - 
a reference to a subscriber to the Fund is a reference to - 
the holder of an investment bond; or 
a contributor to a superannuation or retirement scheme or savings scheme maintained by the Corporation; and 
a reference to a subscriber, in relation to a Division of the Fund, is a reference to- 
the holder of an investment bond in the series of investment bonds in relation to which that Division is maintained; or 
a contributor to any superannuation or retirement scheme or savings scheme in relation to which that Division is maintained. 
A reference in this Act to the relevant terms and conditions, in relation to a Division of the Fund, is a reference - 
in the case of a Division maintained in relation to a series of investment bonds  -  to the terms and conditions on which those bonds were issued; and 
in the case of a Division maintained in relation to a superannuation or retirement scheme or a savings scheme - to the terms and conditions on which the scheme was established. 
DrJ. F. CAIRNS (Lalor - Minister for Overseas Trade) (4.2)  -  Mr Chairman,  I move: 
In sub-clause (1), before 'register', insert 'appropriate'. 
This is the first amendment which appears in my name. It results from an examination which revealed that it is desirable to have more than one register of those who have subscribed to the National Investment Fund. Previously, we considered that one register might be sufficient, but it seems reasonable and practical that provision should be made for the possibility of more than one register being kept. Therefore, this amendment and the next 4 amendments that 1 shall move in relation to this clause and clause 9 arise as a result of the need to make it possible to have more than one register. That is the purpose of the first amendment. The other amendments related thereto are merely matters of expression. The third, fourth and fifth amendments that I will move seek the insertion of the word appropriate' to change the wording to appropriate register' instead of 'register'. These amendments, therefore, are mostly matters of mere expression arising out of the basic question of providing for more than one register. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Amendment (byDrJ. F. Cairns) agreed to: 
In the definition of 'Registrar', omit 'the' substitute 'a'. 
Order! I suggest to the honourable gentlemen that if they debate the clause - I am allowing a fairly liberal debate on the clause because of the time factor - we will have more debate on it before the time expires. 
 Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The question is that the Bill be considered an urgent Bill. 
Question put. 
Order! The Minister is indicating that he accepts certain amendments but those amendments cannot come before the Chair unless they are moved by the honourable member for Berowra. 
Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage of the Bill has expired. I put the question: 
That the remainder of the Bill be agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendment circulated by the Government agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave--adopted. 
Order! I suggest that the Minister come back to the Bill. 
In the performance of its functions, the Commission shall have regard to the desire of the Australian Government, in pursuing the general objectives of national economic and social policy and urban and regional development, to improve and promote the well-being of the people of Australia - 
That is what the Country Party wants to delete -  with full employment - 
That is what it wants to delete -  stability in the general level of prices - 
That is what it wants to delete -  viability in external economic relations - 
That is what it wants to delete -  conservation of the natural environment and rising and generally enjoyed standards of living - 
That is what it wants to delete -  and, in particular, to the desire of the Australian Government to - 
improve the efficiency with which the community's productive resources are used - 
That is what it wants to delete - 
facilitate adjustment to changes in the economic environment by industries and persons affected by those changes - 
That is what it wants to delete - 
Recognise the interests of consumers and consuming industries likely to be affected by measures proposed by the Commission- 
That is what it wants to delete - 
Ensure that any measures for assistance to, and development of, industries are integrated with national economic policy as a whole. 
The Country Party wants to delete that too - 
Ensure that Australia's trade and protection policies are compatible- 
It wants to delete that too - 
Provide adequate scope for public scrutiny and evaluation on the basis of the Commission's report. 
That is what the Country Party wants to delete. It wants it to be done in secret. It wants it to be done in the way in which the Coombs Task Force report disclosed how it was to be done. One only has to bear in mind this: When one reads clause 21 - the clause that the Country Party wants to delete and change - one is seeing a system that the Government hopes to extend to the Country Party together with other Australians whereby Australians will know, by inquiry that takes place in public, how their money is being spent, so that the Commission can then report to this Parliament and this Parliament can then debate the report and either accept that advice or reject that advice or adopt it in part or reject it in part. That is what the Country Party wants to reject. It wants to do it in the dark, in secret, as the Coombs Task Force report disclosed it had done it for many years. 
May I give one example. We know that the standing inter-departmental committee on assistance to industries provides co-ordinated advice already, as do many of the forms of machinery that exist, and we know that the Tariff Board, which is virtually the same thing for practical purposes as what we are talking about now, has issued a report on colour television and it is being considered by the Department of Secondary Industry. It is also to be considered by the Department of Overseas Trade, the Department of Customs and Excise, the Department of the Media, the Department of Science, the Post Office, the Department of Defence, the Department of Supply and the Treasury as well. They will all consider it, and when a decision it taken on it it will be announced in this Parliament, where it can be thrashed out in public debate again over the air so that Australians can hear it. But it is all these sorts of things to which the Country Party predictably objects and seeks to change. 
Order! The Standing Orders provide that members will be addressed in a certain way. I suggest that the Minister comply with the Standing Orders. 
When we came to office we found, firstly, that the former Government had never done its sums; it had never kept statistics. As a matter of fact, the statistics on foreign ownership and control of Australian mineral resources were only up to 1968. We have had to extrapolate since that time, but it is quite clear that at that time 62 per cent of Australia's mineral wealth was owned and/or controlled by overseas companies, by the multinationals, by the friends of the honourable member for Farrer, by the people whom he champions or by the people to whom he belongs because that is his class, that is where he comes from and he could not think otherwise. What was the minerals policy of the former Government of which he is an outstanding example? It was one of neglect, benign neglect if you like, or benevolent neglect - one of 'Come here and get it'. Eightynine per cent of the capital infrastructure that was needed to develop Australia was supplied by Australian people from their savings. The other 11 per cent came from overseas. But it was instantly directed - they came homing in like homing pigeons - right to where the profits were, namely into minerals, into primary industry, into secondary industry and into commerce, with the complaisance, the neglect and the co-operation of the members of the former Government parties. They should be ashamed of themselves. 
In the place of that situation we have substituted benign supervision. For the first time in Australia's mineral history there is a government which is prepared to take the Australian viewpoint. If there is one thing that is outstanding in the record of this Government and its ideology, it is that we stand for Australia, we wave the Australian flag and we give allegiance to the Queen of Australia. We are proud of being Australians and we still stand in the light of the multi-nationals. They will never get their hands on any more of our resources. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said so. He said it at the Australian Mining. Industry Council dinner last February. All my efforts and the efforts of the Government have been directed to ensuring that the present devastating ownership will gradually be reduced. Reduce it we will. Our policies have been directed towards achieving that purpose. We have discharged truly national functions. We speak as Australians. We do not speak as synthetic imports with an allegiance overseas. We are Australians first and foremost. It is a concept that the Liberals would never understand. 
Our major customer is Japan. For the first time we are dealing with the Japanese in a proper, businesslike way. The so-called government of extreme socialists in fact is capable of doing a better job than the so-called businessman's government. For the first time we have adequate information. Export controls were imposed, as the House well knows, for the purpose of obtaining information, and we have information on prices, quantities, times of delivery and, above all, the denomination of currency in which contracts are written. I have had major companies come to me cringing because they were too stupid and the previous Government also was too stupid not to have their contracts written in Australian currency. This applies to some of the major companies. I certainly will not commit a breach of faith by disclosing their names, but they do exist. What have been the results of our activities? In the minds of members of the Opposition, we have committed an unpardonable crime. We have, been a commercial success. 
In the case of iron ore there has been a price increase just short of 17 per cent as an offset to world currency revaluation. This represents a little matter of $90m extra income for Australia in a year. 
In respect of the coal export trade as a whole, we are receiving at least another $100m a year in income because of our ability to inform the different colliery companies of the going price for coal overseas. No longer can overseas buyers come into Australia and play one company off against another. I am ashamed of some of the Australian companies for their stupidity. They could have obtained better prices by sticking together. For a change, we have imitated the imitators. The Japanese have worked through the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. In turn MITI has carefully controlled or co-ordinated the buying by Japan. I give MITI great credit for what it has done. I have told the Japanese that we will do exactly the same and that it will be on the basis of willing sellers, willing buyers and a fair deal to both sides. In future Australia will not adopt a low posture to any other country. We will stand erect. We will look people in the eyes and we will ask for fair terms and give a fair deal because this is a stable country. We are just as capable of honouring a contract as is any other form of government, and honour contracts we have and honour them we will. The tactics of divide and conquer have gone out the door. We have thrown them out quite deliberately. 
As for the other alleged disasters, we have taken action to ensure that for the first time there will be a complete survey of Australia's resources of energy because for the future it is energy that counts in this world. We have energy in most respects. In the case of crude oil we are lacking, but there again we will do what the Opposition was not capable of doing or conceiving when in government. We will ensure that every form of liquid hydro-carbon is reconstituted into motor spirit or to other petroleum derivatives. We have provided for it in the Pipeline Authority Act and as for it being a pipe dream and as for what the honourable member for Farrer had the impertinence to say to the House just recently, let me remind him that on television the other night I produced the document signed by  Sir William  Pettingell,  Mr Butters  and myself in which it was recognised that we would be the constructing authority for the pipeline, that the pipes were ours and that we were going ahead with the job. The tenders close on 29 October. We will decide who the successful tenderer is to be and we will proceed to build the pipeline. We have had quite enough of  Sir William  Pettingell and his nonsense. We tried it the quiet way but from now on we will play it tough and hard, but, nevertheless, it will be fair because the Australian Gaslight Co. has its rights. We told them that we would stand in their shoes with respect to the transmission of natural gas from Gidgealpa. 
As for the peculiar alliance between the honourable member for Farrer and the South Australian Premier, let me repeat what I said in answer to a question from the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  yesterday. The policy of our Party is that there should be at least a 51 per cent Australian ownership and, more than that, we will ensure that every gallon of motor spirit that can be extracted from the Gidgealpa natural gas will be extracted and used for Australia. 
It is being done and it will continue to be done. 
I refer now to uranium. I do not have much time left. I had hoped to make a full statement on uranium. However, what the honourable member for Farrer has said has been an absolute tissue of misrepresentation and I will refer to my prepared speech concerning uranium in refutation of the nonsense of the honourable member for Farrer. In a recent report in the 'Australian Financial Review' it was stated that I was considering a plan for uranium contracts to be fulfilled from the Mary Kathleen uranium mine, which has been closed for some years- 
Mary Kathleen has current export contracts for 5,362 short tons. Their company-stated resources of uranium are 10,700 short tons. The former Government, in the period between 8 and 30 November last, approved of export contracts for an additional 4,300 short tons. It had also approved of an export contract on 24 August 1972 for 2,230 short tons. These contracts could all have been substantially met by the complete extraction of the Mary Kathleen reserves. In a subsequent letter addressed to me of 28 June,  Mr Carnegie  said: 
I hope that, when you decide on the appropriate national uranium sales policy, we will have an opportunity to suggest some practical rationalisation of the industry, designed to meet the objectives of both the Australian Government and the companies involved. We appreciate, of course, that you would not expect this to result in any overall increase in overseas ownership of Australia's mineral resources . . . 
On 17 August last, I saw, at their request,  Mr Carnegie  and  Mr Espie, Chairman  of Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. In the light of the June discussion, I inquired whether there would be any scope for Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd to help out other firms with approved contracts.  Mr Carnegie  then referred to some discussions earlier in the year with 
Ranger, about some sort of merger. In his letter of 24 August, again addressed to me,  Mr Espie  said: 
You explained to us that, in the case of some producers, their approved contracts do not give them sufficient assured production to justify the opening of a new operation. You said that you were seeking a way in which Mary Kathleen Uranium could participate in a rationalisation of the industry. Possibly, Mary Kathleen Uranium could reopen and, in negotiation with other potential producers, arrange to provide a product which could satisfy their contracts. . . . 

 Mr Espie then went on to say that his company had entered into discussion with Ranger and Queensland Mines and hoped to indicate progress within the next month. He further said that previous discussions on rationalisation of the industry had suggested that some merger of equity interests might be required to obtain a workable solution which would be fair and equitable to all shareholders concerned. 
In a further letter of 6 September,  Mr Espie  advised in terms which suggested they were unlikely to achieve the rationalisation which they had originally contemplated. My part in this proposal has been quite maliciously and stupidly - I repeat, stupidly - attacked by the Opposition as being in some way an attempt to nationalise the industry by expropriation. The "suggestion is, of course, an absurd one. Using a similar Press sounding board,  Mr Millner  of Queensland Mines, has attempted to indulge in some journalistic arm twisting. I sent him a reply by telex which has been quoted before in this House and I will not repeat it. I want to reaffirm that at all times I have pressed and will continue to press for the fullest mining of all uranium in the Northern Territory, with due regard to environmental restoration, and other interests, such as Aboriginal rights. No Labor administration will be responsible for denying to the respective discoveries of uranium in any areas, the subject of the Woodward Committee's terms of reference, proper rights under the Northern Territory mining ordinances for their ultimate development. 
The Australian Atomic Energy Commission reports that in the Northern Territory where all our richest uranium deposits are, excepting Yeelirrie, the total expenditure for uranium prospecting during 1973 is expected to be $2.6 lm in 29,600 square miles held under prospecting rights. Of this area, 6,800 square miles are held by foreign owned companies, and 9,000 square miles by wholly Australian owned companies. The balance is being prospected under 'farm-in' arrangements, with 19 groups having beneficial Australian interests ranging from 25 per cent to 65 per cent. 
Our predecessors in office operated export controls on uranium. They lifted certain of them in the approving of export contracts, totalling some 11,600 short tons. Over 7,900 short tons of this total were approved in the final 5 months of office. We will honour these to the letter, despite the colourable circumstances. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  in the first days of office gave an asssrance to Queensland Mines that existing titles would be honoured. This will also be done. Australia,  Sir, has  world-ranking resources of uranium oxide. In aggregate tonnages of all cost types we probably rank second only to Canada. The Australian Atomic Energy Commission, whose advice I have followed very closely throughout my period of office and which has this statutory responsibility to advise me, informs me that our reserves are to a point to justify consideration of the first stage of a centrifuge-based enrichment plant. I believe that the Japanese and Australian Governments should agree jointly to commence a feasibility study of establishing in Australia a uranium enrichment facility, utilising Japanese technology and finance, which will be owned by the Australian Government, and which will enrich a proportion of our uranium reserves for the Japanese market under a long-term contract. 
Our forthcoming ministerial visit to Japan is therefore of vital importance to our future uranium policy and discussions there will be on the basis of high national interest. The various uranium producing interests in Australia have been told specifically to await our return from Japan. We know and sympathise with the energy needs of Japan as our best trading partner. We intend to see that they are met on a proper basis. Equally, we will maximise Australia's financial returns from uranium while providing full energy security in this resource from Japan. We seek to strike a balance between the national interest on the medium and long term policy bases, while also ensuring a reasonable return to local uranium interests and their shareholders in the shorter term. Uranium is a strategic material of great significance and is the most highly concentrated naturally recurring energy material in commercial use today. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! I suggest to the honourable member for 
Cowper that he remain silent and allow one person to speak in the House at a time. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr OLLEY (Hume)-  Mr Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of demands by the Leader of the Opposition, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and, more recently, the Premier of Victoria for the Government to cut expenditure as an anti-inflationary measure? Is he also aware of demands by the Victorian Premier at a recent Premiers meeting for an additional $70m to finance his State Budget and of demands by front bench members of the Opposition in this chamber that defence spending should be increased by $300m? Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether it is possible to increase Government expenditure by some $500m to $ 1,000m in the areas demanded by the Opposition whilst cutting government expenditure at the Commonwealth level without creating massive unemployment, which appears to be what honourable members opposite want? 
Order! I suggest to the honourable gentleman that as he has risen to speak to clause 1, which is the title of the Bill, that is the only matter to which he will be able to speak. 
This Act may be cited as the Trade Practices Act 1973. 
In looking at this clause I am reminded of what Oliver Goldsmith once said:'Every absurdity has a champion to defend it' I have no doubt that there will be some in this' Committee who will vote for this clause. It is a completely unnecessary clause. Some people may cite this Bill as the Trade Practices Act 1973, but that may depend on whether it passes through this House and whether it passes through another place. The purpose of this clause is to work a traversty of something which has existed in the law for some years, which has worked satisfactorily before, and which the Government now seeks to change. 
Order! The honourable gentleman will be out of order if he debates any clause of the Bill other than that relating to the title. 
Order! I suggest to the honourable gentleman that he confine himself to the subject before the Chair. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
 Order! The time allotted for the precedence of General Business has expired. I call on Government Business. 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Order! I suggest to the honourable gentleman that he debate the clause and not the Bill which was the subject of a second reading debate. 
Any direction given to the Commission . . . shall be in writing and the Attorney-General shall cause a copy of the direction . . . 
The point we have made time and time again is that this Bill hardly spells out anything. There are so many areas where discretion can be applied. There will be people who are illequipped to make judgments on other clauses of the Bill- 
Order! The honourable member for Casey is not in his place. 
Order! The right honourable gentleman will not invite interjections as interjections are out of order. 
The Minister for Labour took the opportunity, in the course of his statement, to condemn Liberal and Country Party senators. The fact of the matter is that it is not the senators he should be condemning; it is his own Cabinet, which would not allow him to pursue his Bill. If he had wished to do so he could have refused at any time to accept amendments to it. He could have put the issue to a double dissolution if he wished to do so. We were quite willing to accept that. We knew what we wanted as a matter of principle and we were not prepared to let the Government take, against our principles, action which could not be reversed when we came back into government. That is why we opposed the legislation previously and continue to oppose it now. 
The tripartite industrial peace conference is to consider a package deal for the bringing about of greater stability in labour relations. The first term of reference should relate to consideration of ways of reducing industrial strikes in Australia. I have no objection to such a conference considering these other matters. They are for it to determine. But I do detect very clear similarities in some of the matters that were put down as terms of reference to ways of avoiding strike situations which were worked out between employer organisations and union organisations in the National Labour Advisory Council 3 years ago when I was Minister for Labour. They were agreed to by the parties concerned but they failed to win the support of the trade union movement, notwithstanding the fact that representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions had been the negotiators of them in the National Labour Advisory Council. So I cannot suggest that people should go into this conference with any great hopes for the elements accepted by them being put into effect. However I have no objection to an attempt being made. I do not propose to go through all the elements one by one as that would take time. Just as I gave the honourable gentleman leave to make a statement today, I ask him to give me leave to make a statement in the future on the 11 principles which the honourable gentleman has proposed should be put before the tripartite conference. 
Is leave granted? 
 I wish to make a few remarks on the estimates for the Department of Housing. In recent years, because of the rundown in the migrant intake and the age of many migrant hostels, the problem of transition accommodation for migrants has become acute. In some areas, mainly in the capital cities, new flat-type accommodation has been provided on a transitional basis for newly arrived migrants. This applies especially at Geelong where, over a period, employment problems have militated against the need for or the desirability of migrants who are seeking employment being brought directly into that area. As a result the migrant hostel has not been replaced, and it does not even have a high priority for replacement. 
There is considerable pressure from manufacturers and employer organisations within the Geelong area, and also from the Geelong Promotion Committee, to have the present hostel maintained as a transition centre for migrants. I am aware that recently departmental officers inspected the hostel, and- 1 know that the Minister himself inspected it earlier. The officers and the Minister would have come to the conclusion that the hostel, which consists of Nissen huts which have been nicely painted, remains a group of Nissen huts that are not fit for long term habitation. I am sure that the Minister and the officers could not have avoided that conclusion. 
This is a serious problem, and it is not one that the employers, who are desperately short of labour, are really willing to take into account. As I see it, the problem is that a continuing need for migrant labour may or may not be able to be established. It certainly can be established with regard to unskilled labour for foundry-type work, for such workers will almost certainly pass through their initial places of employment in the first 6 months to 12 months of their residence in Australia. However, it is difficult to establish how the requirements for migrant labour can be met without replacing the existing hostel structure or providing some other form of transitional housing for migrant families. I say categorically that I do not believe the present hostel can be maintained with any decency by the Australian Government as a place where one would expect large numbers of persons to keep their families for any length of time. The hostel is not satisfactory, and it has not been satisfactory for some years. 
I rise in this debate to impress upon the Minister the importance of having transitional migrant accommodation available in the Geelong area. The growth of industry, especially heavy industry, depends upon the availability of labour. In the main, heavy industry in Australia is manned by migrant labour. If transitional accommodation is not available, it is almost impossible to bring migrant labour into such an area. Ordinary housing is not available, first, because of the costs involved and, second, because at the moment housing commissions or the State housing authorities have a waiting time for such accommodation of between one and 3 years. This just does not meet the immediate situation. 
There is another area of housing that I know the Minister has under consideration. It is of a different type. I refer to the need for emergency transitional housing for persons who, for various reasons, are displaced. This need has been drawn to the Minister's attention. It is a subject on which State and Commonwealth governments must have long discussions, for at the moment the major problem with transitional housing other than for migrants is that it is not needed for long periods and it is fairly expensive to provide. 
I rose in the debate to raise the matter of the migrant hostel to Geelong. I point out to the Minister that it is of extreme importance to industry and to the development of the area for transitional accommodation to be provided for migrants. It must be accommodation of a good standard, fit for people who are newly arrived in Australia to live in. I do not know what means are being adopted to deal with this problem or what negotiations have taken place, although I am aware that the interdepartmental committee has visited Geelong for discussions. However, I ask that Minister to expedite whatever conclusions are to be reached, and to ensure that accommodation is available so that the industrial expansion of that area, which is necessary and, as far as I am concerned, must be encouraged, is not handicapped by the fact that labour is not readily available and cannot be made available readily. 
Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 

 Mr BOURCHIER (Bendigo) &lt;8.&gt;10)- In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Health, the Repatriation Department and the Department of Social Security I would like to mention firstly the community welfare centres that were introduced this year. I understand that the Department of Health has received some 500 applications for these welfare centres and that now, unless there has been some alteration, something like 120 applications have been approved. Two centres are already in operation in Canberra. The Department has an appropriation of $10m for this project. It is a very worthwhile project. I believe that 100 per cent of the funding of these welfare centres is to be provided by the Government in the first year. However, one wonders a little about what will happen after the first year because I think that the amount then drops to 80 per cent or 90 per cent for capital subsidy and 70 per cent or 75 per cent for recurring expenses. Whilst even this is well worthwhile, I wonder how some of the local government bodies where the centres are to be introduced will be able to meet the added costs unless the State governments come to the party. I certainly hope that the State governments will do so. 
I congratulate the Minister on the recent announcement, which I received by mail today, that in Victoria an amount of $2,512,000 is to be expended on this particular project and that this will enable 17 such projects to be started, including one in Eaglehawk in my electorate. I understand that there is agreed expenditure of upwards of $200,000. The people in the electorate of Bendigo, and in Eaglehawk in particular, will be delighted by this achievement. 
I refer now to the care of young people who are severely disabled. Not many of us are aware of this problem. I must admit that I did not know too much about the problems associated with this matter. As we are all aware, there are many young people today who somehow manage to knock themselves around severely in car accidents mainly, but in other ways as well, and become totally disabled. This situation is never very nice, but fortunately in the metropolitan areas there are hospitals which provide facilities and training for these people. Unfortunately outside the metropolitan areas there are centres - I must cite my own city of Bendigo - where the sons and daughters of the residents have incurred such disabilities. They are left in the hospital until such time as they can be moved to Melbourne because we do not have in Bendigo the facilities to treat them, look after them and train them. I think that the Minister should have a look at this matter. I realise that it is impossible to provide facilities in every little town or borough but surely there are major centres throughout the country which could become areas where these people could be left in good care, reasonably close to their relatives and could receive the training that they need. 
A matter which I have raised before and which my own Government introduced last year concerns domiciliary nursing care. I have discussed this matter with the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  at different times. I know that he agrees with me that there are a lot of anomalies associated with it. He has helped with the introduction and continuation of this care but unfortunately no steps have been stated - the Minister may be planning some - as to what action will be taken to overcome these anomalies. We have a situation in which people who need nursing care on a doctor's orders cannot receive it because of the lack of nursing facilities. This happens not only in country areas but also, I believe, in some metropolitan suburbs. Whilst the nurses are at the hospitals they are not necessarily able or allowed to provide home nursing services. Therefore we have the problem that patients who need nursing care cannot always be transported to a hospital a couple of days a week to receive such care. If these people are eligible for nursing care, if a nurse oan call once a week or even occasionally and if a doctor is prepared to vouch that these people need such care, why can they not receive the nursing care benefit? Their families who look after them are still facing the added cost involved in looking after them at home. After all, that was what the Bill was all about in the first place - to help these people to be cared for in their own homes. I sincerely ask the Minister, if he is not already doing so, to have a very close look at this situation. 
I turn now to the matter of pension increases, This Government introduced a scheme whereby pensions will rise by $1.50 twice a year. To the Government's credit, this has been done so far. Of course, the idea was that this would bring the pension up to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings, but unfortunately with the galloping inflation we are suffering the pensioners are actually losing the battle. Perhaps the Government will be forced to bring in supplementary legislation. Whether that be the case, I believe that the pensioners are suffering badly. Perhaps this is not really related to the Department of Social Security. People from 65 to 75 years of age who have an income and who are eligible to receive a small part-pension will be subject to taxation. They will lose the age allowance. In other words, instead of gaining money they will lose it. It does not take much knowledge of mathematics to realise that. The cost of living and high inflation are eroding the pensions which the Minister and his Department have supplied. As I mentioned before, perhaps the Government will have to bring in a supplementary small Budget before the next increase is due. The pensioners are receiving money in one hand and losing it from the other. I refer particularly to people in country areas who have suddenly found that their telephone rentals have increased and that the concessions they receive from the Department of Social Security do not make up the difference. 
I am very concerned about homes for the aged blind. The patients in such homes who can actually sit up are sitting around all day. Obviously they have to be classed medically as totally blind. They have to be aged before they can obtain entry to such homes. Yet these people are considered ambulant. Some expert from the Department of Health comes around, looks at a patient and says: 'Oh, yes, you are sitting up'. Perhaps he prods him - I do not know. If the patient barks or makes a noise he says: 'You are an ambulant patient. You are not entitled to be classed as an intensive care patient'. Let us face it, all of these people are intensive care patients. They cannot look after themselves. They are totally blind and incapable of looking after themselves. They are aged. They need all the help we can give. A very small number of patients is involved. A large number of these patients is treated as ambulant patients and they do not receive the benefit of the extra subsidies allowed for intensive care. This is a shame. It is not necessarily the fault of this Government. It is something that needs to be repaired, and I hope that this Government will do something about the situation. 
The same thing can apply of course, to community homes for the aged. A doctor can say that a person needs intensive care, demands it, and receives it in hospital. But again the expert comes around and says: 'You do not have enough nurses on your staff. This patient can get up and walk so he is entered as an ambulant patient and you cannot receive the benefit'. The hospital has to carry the burden of caring for these people who need intensive care. If the doctor is prepared to state that such a person needs intensive care, that should be enough. It may even call for 2 opinions on the matter. The opinion of the people who know that patient's history should be sufficient to attract the benefit for intensive care. 
Because my time is limited it would be impossible for me to cover this field but I want to mention briefly units for single people and married couples. At present the grant is $5,200 for single units. They now cost at least $7,800. In fact, that was their cost yesterday. Today, because of the increased cost of building, they are probably costing around $10,000. This is an area that perhaps should be looked at. I know that the Minister has some misgivings about the possibility of there being some shuffling of rents and transfer fees, but I honestly believe that this is an area in which we can provide accommodation in which aged couples can live together in a little comfort in the few years left to them. I trust that the Minister will give serious thought to that aspect, not from the dispassionate side of how much it is costing or how much a hospital might be making but from the point of view of what he can do for the aged people of this country. 
The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The Minister has spoken in the debate, and I suggest that he allow the honourable member to continue. 
There is scope for further tightening in financial conditions but the gathering strength of private demand suggests it would not be prudent and probably not sufficient to rely only on monetary policy to achieve the desired restraints. 
The simple fact is that the Government's policies so far have failed. The best means of describing the Government's failure comes from a piece of doggerel that I read at the weekend. I would like to read it for the edification of honourable members. It says: 
Prime Minister Gough and his missus 
Through Asia were explaining their thesis. 
As through Asia they trot 
They both forgot 
Australia was falling to pieces. 
That piece of doggerel would be quite funny if it did not so truly reflect the serious situation in Australia. Every day headlines appear in the newspapers describing the seriousness of the situation. We have just heard the Minister for Social Security confusing himself and finally sitting down after 10 minutes of lengthy verbiage, having ignored the headlines that appeared this morning in the 'Age' newspaper - 'Inflation near crisis: experts'. An article by Tony Thomas stated: 
Australia's inflationary pressure is building up to crisis proportions. This is the consensus of 3 separate economic forecasts released yesterday by business consultants. 
The points are taken from November bulletins of the Syntec research group in Melbourne, management consultants W. D. Scott and Co.- 
. and business forecasters Philip Shrapnel and Co. 
The Syntec bulletin said: 'Within the existing long term interest rate structure, Syntec believes the Government and its advisers are now bent on bringing about a real money crunch before the end of this financial year - even to the point of seeing a rash of bankruptcies thrown up in the process, preferably in land development.' 
D. Scott headlined its November newsletter: Inflation rate to speed up, not slow down.' 
It described demand pressures as 'rocketing' and said the credit squeeze alone would be unable to check the inflationary spending spree. Excess demand was now so severe that an acceleration of inflation was almost inevitable in the next 4 to 6 months. 
Shrapnel's 'economic outlook' said that even apart from food prices, 'inflationary pressures are really building up in the economy'. Imports would give only slight relief, and the Government was doing virtually nothing about cost inflation or restraint of its own spending. 
All in all inflation is going to get worse before it gets better. 
He then went on to say, in effect, that this could prove to be a headache for the Government. I think that is the understatement of the year. The Government has failed miserably with its policy. The article from which I have just quoted has been stated in differing forms by differing authors for months, and the Government has failed to heed the message. There has been scarcely a reliable economist, banker, industrialist or businessman who has not pressed the same view. The simple fact is that the Government, from its inception, treated the economy as a plaything. As the position has worsened it has taken a number of actions that have proved to be selective by nature and a total failure in application. No government can keep on restating the actions it has taken and be convincing if the actions have failed. The actions which the Government has taken have failed. 
The credibility of this Government is damaged because each ad hoc action has been greeted with large headlines as the cure for the inflationary problems, and each action has done nothing but selectively hurt a section of people and industry, and assist the others to profiteer. The first revaluation of the Australian dollar by 7.05 per cent last December was an example. It was stated to be a wonder stroke and an example of the Prime Minister's new personal mastery of economics. Yet all it did was to cost exporters $200m and to fatten the profits of importers. Any unbiased study of the evidence given before the Joint Committee on Prices will show that only in rare cases was the lower price passed on to the consumer. I do not treat the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  as being an unbiased student, either. Since then we have had a 25 per cent tariff cut, which again failed to halt the rate of inflation but has done selective damage to industry. We then had a second revaluation which again has cost exporters dearly and has done nothing to halt the rate of inflation. 
The Minister for Social Security was keen to quote  Dr Porter.  The question was asked concerning him this morning and there have been quotes all day of this great  Dr Porter.  The sheer nonsense of  Dr Porter's  position is shown by the failure of the Government to halt inflation by revaluation. To argue simply that revaluation months earlier would have cured the present Government's hangovers is sheer nonsense. It is economic stupidity. Having taken these steps the Government either argues that the problem is world wide and beyond its control, or it is because of the high price of meat and vegetables that inflation is soaring. Two points need to be made about that. Firstly, as proven by the evidence given to the sub-Committee of the Joint Committee on Prices which was inquiring into meat prices, the price of meat has only once again reached a point of equilibrium with average weekly earnings compared with the situation 10 years ago, proving only that farmers have been receiving too little for their product in past years. Secondly, while great criticisms were' made about the original Meat Board report to the Government the Government members on the Committee, including the Member for Adelaide and particularly the member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  who represents a rural electorate, recommended a heavy export tax on meat, but the Government accepted the minority report, fortunately, and did nothing. Now the Treasurer complains bitterly about the high price of meat and its effect on the consumer price index. He is the Treasurer who sat at the same table and made the decision to do nothing - such hyprocrisy. The real illness in the economy stems from the Government's own actions and rapid expansion of the Public Service, particularly in the top echelons, combined with the jobsfortheboys mentality. This position was aggravated yesterday by the appointment of Mick Young at $17,000 a year plus expenses. I believe this to be the most outrageous, unethical and indeed immoral appointment in this nation's history, an appointment not for governmental purposes but purely for party political purposes at the taxpayers' expense. It is setting a bad example in national leadership. 
The Government then introduced a Budget that was infamous for its attack on country people and almost without exception was seen by economists and writers as expansionary and inflationary. It has been quite apparent that the Government intends to use inflation to finance its own program. That was made clear by the Prime Minister in his policy speech. Regretfully his lack of economic knowledge has placed the Prime Minister in the position of not recognising the outflow of his own words. This ignorance on his part has added fuel to the Government's present dilemma. Government policies have forced inflation to almost the highest. level in history. The Government is the pacemaker of inflation and has not bothered to look at the bad example it is setting. With individual Ministers supporting the strikes which are being held across the nation, the implementation of a 35-hour working week and attacks on many sections of industry, it is no wonder that there is turmoil in the electorate. 
Instead of setting a good example by curbing its own excesses the Government has turned its attack to the private sector. Part of this attack has been by an increase in interest rates to a level never before seen in this country. Who in this House does not remember the promises made by the Australian Labor Party when in Opposition and its statement that it was a low interest Party. In fact, the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  stomped around the countryside promising loans totalling $50m at 3 per cent interest to farmers. Who will ever forget that? Certainly not the farmers. They will not forget it. They will take advantage of the next poll to show their disapproval of the Minister for Immigration. The fact of the matter is that the Government's policies have failed badly. What it needs to do is call a conference with the Premiers. It should settle down and seek solutions to its multiplicity of problems. It should work out a policy in full instead of persisting with ad hoc solutions to the situation that we are going through at the present time. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from LI to 2.15 p.m. 
I rise because during his remarks the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  made a statement which I think the House must take note. He suggested that the persons responsible for the leaking of this document may have been parliamentary officers or officers of the Joint Committee on Prices. I suggest to the honourable member that whilst the Committee was not able to identify the person who leaked the document, the Committee was fairly substantially of the opinion that it had been leaked by a member of the Committee. I do not think that any member of the Committee was of the opinion that any officer of the Committee or officer of the Parliament had been responsible for this leak. I do not have the transcript of evidence with me, otherwise I would verify the fact that it was indicated that a member of the Committee leaked the information although the name of that member is obviously not available and there is no way in which the Committee would be able to carry out the sort of investigation that would be required to find the name of the person who leaked the information. However, I think it should be made quite clear that there was no evidence before the Committee which would suggest that any officer of the Parliament or of the Committee was responsible for the leaking of the information. Unless it is proved otherwise or substantive evidence can be given otherwise, I think the Parliament has to accept the responsibility and such odium as there is of the fact that a member of the Committee is the most likely person responsible for the leaking of the information. I do not think that it does the cause of anyone any good to try even indirectly to pass the blame on to someone else who is not able to speak in this House. 
The honourable member for Gippsland made great play about the dignity of the House. I do not know whether the House does itself justice when it inquires into these matters, but the House has established its own Standing Orders and it certainly would do itself less than justice if it allowed those Standing Orders to be ignored and flouted without taking any action. 
I understand that honourable members on both sides of the House, and certainly those in the honourable gentleman's own Party, were fairly insistent that this matter be referred to the Privileges Committee. The honourable member for Gippsland raised a number of other matters that he felt should be the subject of similar inquiries. Standing Orders provide the means by which the honourable member could at any stage initiate those inquiries. If he could make out even a prima facie case of breach of privilege, the Privileges Committee would be obliged, on reference of the matter, to inquire into it. I think it is fairly cheap politics to come into this House and make a speech that has nothing to do with the report of the Privileges Committee. It is, in fact, playing politics to suggest that the Committee could have inquired into something else. 1 repeat, if the honourable member for Gippsland could have made out even a prima facie case he could have had it referred to the Committee. Instead, he has made slighting remarks about the House and the officers of the Parliament. 
If the Leader of the Country Party reads the honourable gentleman's speech he will understand what I am talking about. This particular reference has had an unfortunate ending and I would join other honourable members in expressing my sympathy to the wife and family of  Mr Tier.  It is extremely unfortunate, indeed tragic, that such an event should occur, and even more unfortunate that it should occur in such circumstances as those that now concern the House. My personal belief is that the House cannot afford to allow its Standing Orders to be flouted, and that it should take action wherever substantial evidence is available. However, that action must be in accordance with the circumstances existing at the time, and I believe that the motion moved by the Minister meets the present circumstances. 

 Mr NIXON (Gippsalnd) -  Mr Speaker.  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Order! 
I think we have heard a very good stage performance by the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock).  I suggest that had the honourable member been serious about his opposition to this guillotine he would have chosen to attack the proposed limitation of time for the second reading debates and not the allotment of time for the Committee stages of the Bills. He is as aware as I am- 
The honourable member is as aware as I am that these are one-clause Bills. I suppose one could" amend the title of the Bills, as one member of the Opposition attempted to do on a Bill, the other night but 1 would suggest that any amendment which will be moved to" this legislation by the Opposition will be a time wasting device because it has already taken a decision that it will oppose the Bills on the second and third readings. 
The honourable member for Kooyong complains that only 15 minutes will be allowed for the Committee stages of the Bills. I point out to the honourable gentleman that when he was a member of the previous Government at a time when the numbers in this chamber were different, 5 minutes was given to a Bill. li the Opposition had accepted nearly an hour ago the time proposed to debate this legislation it would have meant that about 4 hours would be available and that for the 3 Bills there would have been 2 full days of debating time. I cannot remember longer debating periods being given to matters which I would have thought every member of this Parliament would support. I can well understand honourable members opposite wanting a lot of time to debate this legislation so that they can tell the people why they want to exclude local government from receiving Commonwealth funds, and why they want to maintain electoral gerrymanders which keep in office some of their colleagues in the States. I can understand why they want to tell the people why they should not be allowed equality of voting. 
 The situation, of course, is that honourable members opposite need a lot of time to tell the people why they require loadings of up to five to one in their favour in electorates. 
 It may well be that honourable members opposite do not even know that these Bills cover State as well as Commonwealth electoral laws. If they do not know that then I find it very surprising that the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is not aware that 'five to one' is a very conservative statement of the ratios between electorates in some of the States. 
Under an Act of Parliament which he has no power to alter because of the operations of a gerrymandered Upper House in his State. I am hopeful that in the time that is available for this debate honourable members will be able to tell us why the ratio between voters in Western Australia runs at 15.4 to one. Under an Act passed by a Liberal-Country Party Government for the Upper House in that State - a country dweller has 15 votes compared with one for a city person. That is not an unreasonable loading, according to the Country Party. The ratio is ten to one in the Lower House. No wonder the Country Party wants time to debate this legislation. Its members can talk for the rest of their lives but they will not explain this away. 
No seconder is required in Committee. 
Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage of this Bill has expired. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the title. 
Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage of the Bill has expired. I put the question: 'That the words proposed to be omitted stand part of the title'. 
Order! Is leave granted? 
Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage of this Bill has expired. 
Question put. 
That the clause be agreed to. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask honourable gentlemen to resume their seats in the chamber. I call the honourable member for Parramatta and remind the Committee that this will be the honourable member's maiden speech. I ask honourable members to extend to him the usual courtesy. The Committee has already agreed that the honourable member for Parramatta may speak for 20 minutes. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

<graphic href="087131197311211_17_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="087131197311211_18_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="087131197311211_19_0.jpg"></graphic>

The first occasion on which specific provisions regulating disclosure of information about clients was included specifically in legislation occurred in the Child Endowment Act 1941. This was repeated in subsequent legislation. The Social Services Consolidation Act 1947 included provisions for regulating disclosure of information. This was included in section 17 of that Act which, with amendment, is the same section providing regulation in this matter in the Social Services Act 1947- 1973. I will refer to this section again shortly. I understand from verbal advice I received from an officer of my Department that access to personal files held in the Department by non-departmental sources can be traced back to 1934 and probably extends to even earlier dates. 
In 1948 the then Minister for Social Services,  Senator McKenna,  seems to have felt some concern about the way in which access to personal files was available. He sought to regularise the procedures. I dare say that at that time, a quarter of a century ago,  Senator McKenna's  efforts were in harmony with contemporary attitudes; but that is too far back in the dim distant past for me to have clear recollections of what contemporary values were then on such things. What is clear is that our society today has a much more sensitive regard for personal rights with respect of privacy and confidentiality of personal information provided on trust and in confidence to official bodies. A quarter of a century ago there were no computers with the aweinspiring capacity to store and rapidly retrieve comprehensive records from central storage units. 
I think it a sobering thought for all of us to reflect on the enormous amount of detail which is stored in the computer records of the Department of Social Security. For instance, our computer bank has detailed information on over 1,870,000 families in Australia including their addresses. These are families where there is at least one child under 16 years and where child endowment is paid. It is possible to establish which children do and which do not go onto higher educa-tion because of the transition to student endowment; and again personal details on these young people can be retrieved. Similary we have extremely comprehensive data on over 1,100,000 age and invalid pensioners, on over 126,000 widow pensioners and women receiving supporting mother's benefit and on some 396,000 cases in which unemployment, sickness benefits and special benefits were granted last year. This personal information in most cases includes full details of thenfinancial position, their assets, legacies, personal business/ financial transactions, as well as their whereabouts. We can pinpoint every birth, we know whether the mother was single or married, who was the father of the child and so on because of our payment of maternity allowances. As honourable members can see there is considerable potential in such records, if they were to get into the wrong hands or through abuse of privilege, for embarrassing or even damaging misuse. 
It is as well that I now move on to an explanation of the legislation controlling the access to informtaion held in personal files held by the Department. Section 17 of the Social Services Act is the relevant section and it says: 
An officer shall, if the Minister or the DirectorGeneral so directs, before entering upon his duties, or exercising any powers or functions, under this Act, make before a Justice of the Peace or a Commissioner for Declarations a declaration in accordance with the prescribed form. 
A person shall not, directly or indirectly, except in the performance of his duties, or in the exercise of his powers or functions, under this Act, and while he is or after he ceases to be, an officer, make a record of, or divulge or communicate to any person, any information with respect to the affairs of another person acquired by him in the performance of his duties, or in the exercise of his powers or functions, under this Act or under any Act repealed by this Act. 
Penalty: Five hundred dollars 
A person who is, or has been, an officer shall not, except for the purposes of this Act, be required: 
to produce in court any document that has come into his possession or under his control in the performance of his duties or functions under this Act or any Act repealed by this Act; or 
to divulge or communicate to a court any matter or thing that has come under his notice in the performance of any such duties or functions. 
Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding provisions of this section, an officer may: 
if the 'Minister or the Director-General certifies that it is necessary in the public interest that any information acquired by the officer in the performance of his duties, or in the exercise of his powers or functions, under this Act or under any Act repealed by this Act, should be divulged, divulge that information to such person as the Minister or the Director-General directs; 
to divulge or communicate to a court any authority or person; or 
divulge any such information to a person who, in the opinion of the Director-General, is expressly or impliedly authorised by the person to whom the information relates to obtain it. 
An authority or person to whom information is divulged under the last preceding subsection, and any person or employee under the control of that authority or person, shall, in respect of that information, be subject to the same rights, privileges, obligation and liabilities under subsections (2) and (3) of this section as if he were a person performing duties under this Act and had acquired the information in the performance of those duties. 
In this section, 'officer' includes a person who has performed duties, or exercised powers or functions, under, or in relation to any Act repealed by this Act. 
As honourable members will note section 17 is very loose and this is particularly so of subsection 4 of section 17. 
First I should indicate the general approach the Department has followed until now in the release of information. The Department has 3 lists of authorities to whom it divulges information under section 17 (4). They are: A. Commonwealth and State departments and other bodies expending public moneys, social security benefits or workers compensation or the like; B. Commonwealth and State departments and other bodies where expenditure of public moneys or social security benefits is not directly involved; C. Commonwealth or State departments where the protection of incoming revenues, the grant of concessions to pensioners or their liability in respect of advances and arrears of rent is involved. There is a free exchange of information with authorities in Group A. Information to the authorities in Groups B and C is, however, only furnished upon request. Again these are very generalised conditions and have allowed practices to develop which I regard, and the Government regards, as quite unsatisfactory. 
Although in principle police officers are not supposed to handle personal files I have been advised by 2 senior officers of my Department and this confirms information I had received from other officers of the Department with whom I have personal contact that in practice police officers have had access to personal index cards and to personal files in a number of cases. I mentioned last week how one police officer had quite improperly used this privilege to trace his estranged wife. I understand that there have been instances in the past - 2 years ago; I have not been able to confirm whether this has occurred in more recent times - of police officers, in at least 2 States where a special fee was paid to them for serving civil summonses, using personal records in the Department to trace people on whom these summonses were to be served. 
I regard it as quite improper that debt collecting agencies, such as State housing authorities, local government bodies and power distribution authorities, should be able to trace people indebted to them through personal records in the Department. I understand that most often a telephone call was the only form of request received and that this was sufficient to obtain the information sought for tracing the person concerned. Obviously this sort of loose arrangement is open to the gravest forms of abuse. I will not add colour to what I am saying by giving illustrations. I am sure honourable members will quickly apprehend the defectiveness of this sort of arrangement and the abuses that could creep in. 
I am further informed that voluntary agencies have been informed of clients' incomes on the basis of requests to the Department in cases where they proposed to provide aid to such a client. My inquiries indicate that the administration of arrangements related to the accessibility of these records has been left very much to State offices and it seems that a wide variety of practices has developed. Strangely enough practices vary between States. Obviously the whole procedure has grown unsteadily and with a want of consistency which comes of looseness. 
It is as well to bear in mind that if departmental instructions had been vigorously pursued at all times much of what I regard as misuse of information by non-departmental sources would have been avoided. Even allowing that instructions had been followed, the very nature of my Department's personal records on its clients, the absence of security measures to protect privacy and the easy and rapid retrieval of computer stored information make it proper that all procedures should be reviewed. It is intriguing to learn that guidelines laid down in 1948 by the then Minister for Social Services,  Senator McKenna,  on the disclosure of information by the Department have remained undisturbed for a quarter of a century. This is really nowhere near good enough. What  Senator McKenna  did in 1948 was probably appropriate and adequate for contemporary standards. But 1948 standards in this sensitive area are not good enough in 1973 or in future years. I propose certain actions to change these procedures, but before I discuss that I want to raise a further point. 
There is an additional situation in which information has been provided from personal files. This concerns academic research. A recent instance, for which I did not give approval and about which I knew nothing, concerns access to personal files related to child endowment recipients. Professor A. H. Pollard, Professor of Economic Statistics, Macquarie University, New South Wales, in March this year was allowed this access. So that there will be no confusion on the nature of that access, I quote from a note I received from my Department on this matter: 
Professor Pollard, on 22 March, 1973, during consultations with officers of this Department, outlined the objects of a survey his University was conducting into the fertility patterns of mothers residing within the Shire of Cumberland, N.S.W. The information sought was the mother's age at the time of the birth of the first child, the time interval between subsequent births, age at the time of births of the last or most recent child and the mother's nationality. 
It was not possible to obtain the required information other than by examination of actual child endowment files. Approval was subsequently given to allow the university staff to extract the required data from child endowment files held in the Sydney office on which payment had been terminated 12 months earlier. Professor Pollard was advised on 30 March 1973, of the approval in the following terms: 
As child endowment files held in our Sydney office and on which payment terminated 12 months earlier are culled for destruction each 4 weeks, they will be made available to you for examination and extraction of data regarding the ex-endowee's child-bearing history; where the earlier portion of a file is held in archives, arrangements will be made for it to be obtained and made available to you. Experience may show that it will not be necessary to obtain the older parts of files from archives on a continuing basis, 'but they will be made available for as long as you consider necessary. 
As the material to be extracted from the files is of statistical nature, it will not be possible to identify any of the individuals involved from the published results of the survey. However, while I have complete confidence in the integrity and discretion of your staff who will be handling the files, it is perhaps necessary that I draw your attention to the provisions of section 17 - the so-called 'secrecy provisions - of the Social Services Act. A copy of this section is attached and I would be grateful if it could be brought to the notice of your colleagues and staff who will be associated with the survey. 
I understand that, in the light of the results obtained from the survey now contemplated, you may wish in the future to consider looking at the fertility characteristics of a sample of  out  current endowees. This may present some problems but we will be happy to examine the practicability of assisting you in this direction at the appropriate time. 
It is interesting to note that Professor Pollard is both a member of the Board of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and of the Economic Advisory Council of the Australian Medical Association. He suggests there is as much relevance in this, in terms of the subject now before the House, as there is in his membership of the Longueville Presbyterian Church. There is a difference however. The Longueville Presbyterian Church has not, publicly at least, been contriving to make a major political issue out of the subject of confidentiality of personal records held by Government agencies such as a health insurance commission. Both the AMA and the MBF have. I wonder what position Professor Pollard has taken on this subject in the councils of these 2 bodies. Perhaps he justifies academic access to such files, but if he does he is at odds with the AMA and the MBF it would seem. Again, I do not want to labour this point; merely to draw attention to its gentle irony. 
I am certain the Liberal Party and the Country Party would be distressed at any suggestion that the degree of access which they permitted to Department of Social Security files should extend to health insurance commission records. It will not of course, and it will cease in so far as records in the Department of Social Security are concerned. 
I have instructed my Director-General that all access to personal information recorded within the Department of Social Security will be restricted to cases (a) where there is explicit written authorisation or verifiable authorisation by the client concerned (b) in extreme cases where there exist grave reasons of public interest; and in such cases approval will be decided by either the Director-General or me on each individual case. The Director-General is to report to me on all cases he approves. This is an interim measure because the issues involved are quite complex. It is clear that the matter of recording this sort of personal information and of access to it requires very careful consideration. I have accordingly contacted  Senator Murphy,  the Attorney-General, suggesting that the matter should be a subject for thorough consideration by the Committee of Inquiry into the Protection of Privacy.  Senator Murphy  agrees with the proposals and the matter is in the process of being referred to that Committee. 
Furthermore I should point out I have not sought to apportion blame in any way in this matter. What has happened is the product of a very old system which ceased being relevant and appropriate to a contemporary society some considerable time ago. The system just did not evolve the way it should have but people - Ministers and public servants - were too busy with so many other immediate and very pressing issues to call the procedures into question. 
To be perfectly frank, if I had not received some letters from different employees of the Department pointing out the weaknesses of this system - and they did this in response to the current hysteria being whipped up on health insurance recording procedures - I doubt that I would ever have called the procedures into question. Indeed to be even franker, until I received those letters I had not known that access to personal information on clients held by the Department was available to non-departmental sources. Until I received the lists I tabled earlier I had not known the extent of this access. 
I believe I have put this matter before the House with a great deal of restraint and without any effort to introduce emotive overtones. This has not been easy because I do feel greatly distressed at the extent to which access has been available to personal records held within the Department. On the other hand, the practice can be traced back over a very great number of years as I mentioned earlier. It spans many governments and it seems to have flourished in recent years. Perhaps the practice was more tolerable two or three decades ago. It certainly is not now, and merely because this bad practice has been of such long standing, and has become so firmly embedded in the procedures of the Department, is no reason for it to continue. As I indicated, it will not, and I have taken proper steps to end it. I present the following paper: 
Department of Social Security - Disclosure of Information from Department files - Ministerial statement, 21 November 1973. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Order! 
Government has made up its mind against it that reveals that there is something sinister. 
By the time it comes to the Senate my Party will have had the opportunity to look at it. By that time I believe that some of the doubts that remain in the mind of the right honourable member for Lowe will have been dispelled. Perhaps it will be possible to explain the matter at greater length. I am quite happy to accept the words 'and any Territory'. I am as flexible as can be in these things - I am always big hearted - but if the Government does not want it done in this House now perhaps the Senate might have another look at it. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
Order! I ask honourable gentlemen on both sides of the House to be silent so that the right honourable member who is addressing the chamber may be heard. 
A Bill for an Act to facilitate alterations to the Constitution and to allow Electors in Territories, as well as Electors in the States, to vote at Referendums on Proposed Laws to alter the Constitution. 
As you will know,  Sir, and  as I believe all honourable members will know, the long title is critically important in referendum proposals because it is the long title that people will see on their ballot paper. Consequently, it should honestly and accurately reflect the substance of the Bill. Therefore I believe that we must consider the long title and ask ourselves whether the words 'to facilitate alterations to the Constitution' are a correct or false description of 2 relevant parts of the Bill. I repeat that they are important so far as the actual voter is concerned. These are the reasons for believing that the words false description apply not only to the rejection of clause 2 (c) but relate also to the long title of the Bill. 
If these 2 changes" are not made - one has already been rejected- then clause 2 (c) will obviously be an attempt to whittle away the federal system and the powers of the State governments. It will take away powers that are now vested in the sovereign States and will attempt to vest them in the Commonwealth. Every honourable member who has a conscience will have to admit that proper consideration has not been given to the meaning of the words and to the consequences of the proposed changes. I am prepared to say that there would not be half a dozen honourable members who would have a clue as to the meaning. The Government is doing this to prevent proper public discussion in what is, after all, the senior and most representative Parliament in the Commonwealth. If we look at the long title of the Bill we will see that it docs not truly reflect the meaning of the Bill. In other words, it is a false presentation, and that presentation should be altered not only in the interests of accuracy and justice but also to permit the Australian people to know exactly what is contemplated. 
The Opposition wants to omit the words 'To facilitate alterations to the Constitution' and to substitute the words 'To reduce the number of States required to approve proposed laws to alter the Constitution'. Yet nowhere in the long title is there a reference to that fact. Consequently, every honourable member with a conscience should be prepared to admit that the long title is false, is capable of misunderstanding and is, therefore, deceptive. For those reasons I formally move: 
Omit the words 'To facilitate alterations to the Constitution', substitute the following words: 
To reduce the Number of States required to approve proposed laws to alter the Constitution.' 
The title will then go on to say: 'and to allow Electors in the States, to vote at Referendums on Proposed Laws to alter the Constitution'. 
Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
Order! The question is that the question be now put. All those of that opinion say 'aye', to the contrary 'no'. I think the 'ayes' have it. Is a division required? Ring the bells. (The bells being rung) - 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn toreports that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition requires a female adviser who can type and that the  Deputy  Leader has stated that the Government has refused to provide the Opposition with adequate staff. 
What staff were provided to Opposition Party Members under the Government of which the present Deputy Leader was a Minister, and what was the classification in each case. 
What staff are available to Members of the present Opposition, and what is the classification in each case. 
What requests by the Opposition for additional staff have been rejected. 
Is the Minister seeking leave to deal with both amendments together? 
Is the amendment seconded? 
On behalf of the Corio electorate, which John Dedman represented so well, I would like to add my tribute to a man whom I did not know personally until I was elected to this Parliament; he had moved out of the Geelong area some years earlier. But during the period for which I have been a member of this Parliament John Dedman was here constantly and always tendered valuable advice when it was wanted. He had suffered for his own integrity. He had the job of putting into effect policies which were necessary in the interests of Australia and as a Minister he did this without apology or veneer. He had the reputation of administering his portfolio - and it should be remembered that such things as priorities for motor cars and motor tyres fell within that portfolio - completely without favour. This does not always help one's political carer. 
In 1949 during the general swing against Labor, John Dedman lost his seat to  Mr Hubert  Opperman, now  Sir Hubert  Opperman. Even though he had been warned by members of the Labor Party and others that this could occur he stuck with determination to his statement that as a Minister of the Crown he had a responsibility and that he must fulfil that responsibility irrespective of the consequences to him personally. He did this, and he lost his seat. I recall listening to the parliamentary broadcasts in the 1940's when he was a Minister and I remember the disappointment I felt when he lost his seat in 1949; I felt that his electorate had not rewarded him well. But he had and always will have the respect that goes to a man who puts his country before himself and whose achievements will grow in recognition rather than diminish. He may not have had the respect or the support of his electorate in 1949 but he certainly earned a great debt of gratitude from his nation for the achievements, the planning and the dedication which he was able to give to public administration. 
He came to this Parliament under circumstances almost identical to my own. The member who preceded him - now Lord Casey - was appointed to a diplomatic post and John Dedman won the subsequent byelection. He spent less than a quarter of his parliamentary career on the back bench. He was almost always a Minister.  His  most notable achievement and the monument which will always remind us of him is the Australian National University. But, more importantly, he was and will be remembered as a man who in his own lifetime was able to achieve those things that most of his fellow man and a lasting monument of achievement to his nation. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="087131197311270_42_2.jpg"></graphic>

Funds flowing from the Cohen report and this Bill will provide opportunities for teachers and administrators to upgrade their competence and to enjoy the fulfilment that should be the reward of any profession or craft. There are many impacts in this great and important document - the Karmel report. Chapters 9 and 10 deserve a special mention. They explain the concept of disadvantaged schools and speciallist education. The report establishes beyond doubt the appalling variations in opportunities available to Australian children. All electorates will contain examples of disadvantaged schools and disadvantaged individuals. La Trobe is certainly no exception. Many children of migrants have special problems requiring specialist teaching. None of the secondary schools in the La Trobe survey had class space or specialist teachers to provide special education for migrant children. Each of the secondary schools had about 30 children who required individual specialist coaching in English. One rural primary school of 50 children - all of whom needed special migrant English lessons - did not have one specialist teacher. In another similar school 20 per cent of the children were in need of specialist English teaching. 
All secondary schools stated that the provision of remedial teaching and psychiatric or specialist attention was inadequate. Remedial teaching requirements ranged from 50 to 150 in large government schools with an enrolment figure of around 900, but were much higher in government technical schools - up to half the students requiring remedial teaching, in the opinion of one principal. Only 3 of the 30 government primary schools stated that they had adequate remedial teaching. Two primary schools claimed that half their pupils needed remedial teaching and most had 35 or 70 pupils requiring such treatment. All the schools indicated that about 4 or 5 in every 100 students needed psychiatric or specialist attention. There was a wide range in the number of students who required counselling on a range of matters. There were 150 out of 900 in one high school, and ,100 out of 225 in a non-government secondary school. One government secondary school stated simply that all children required counselling as part of their secondary education. However, most stated that about 50 students in an average school population of 700 required this counselling. 
There will never be equality in education as long as there is no compensatory education and counselling for children in disadvantaged circumstances. The disadvantages need to be identified as early as possible to prevent the compounding of the handicap. It is comforting, therefore, to see in this Bill the injection of money into disadvantaged schools and for special education. 
For the first time in Australia the Australian Parliament will make direct grants towards the recurrent expenditure of government schools instead of non-government schools only, as at present. We intend to do it for all schools, with grants determined on the basis of relative need. In round figures we will be appropriating over the next 2 years $176m for government schools, $65m for Catholic systemic schools and $70m for other nongovernment schools. This procedure is right and proper. 
This Government realises, as all responsible national governments should, that it must be its primary obligation to provide and maintain a free and adequate education of the highest standards through the government school system, open to all who choose it. At the same time, this Government recognises the right of choice of a parent to send a child to any school. We not only preserve that right to choose but also go further and make such a choice available to a greater number of parents. This choice is that the school selected should offer adequate education for those who attend it and not be available merely to those who have their choice facilitated by a capacity to pay for that education. It is important to realise that the recurrent expenditures on resources are those that I have outlined as most deficient in the La Trobe survey. At page 56 of the report the Committee has set out the index of resources used to allocate funds on a needs basis to non-government and non-systemic schools. The index is in the following terms: 
The recurrent resources used within a school have been taken to comprise the services of teachers, administrators, and support staff (both professional and ancillary), consumables, equipment, and, in the case of schools forming part of a system, resources such as itinerant specialist teachers, guidance and counselling personnel and curriculum advisers, provided at system level for use by individual schools. 
One might well ask why parents send their children to non-government schools. Parents who send their children to schools outside the State system have usually done so for 3 reasons. One reason is that the parents have been dissatisfied with the State system. The Karmel report aims to overcome inadequacies in both government and private systems by providing enough money and by developing an educational philosophy befitting our enlightened community. The second reason is that parents have wanted to provide their children with a particular religious background in their education - mainly those going to Catholic, Jewish, Lutheran, Adventist and similar schools - or they may do so for diversity, an experimental or unique education. Third, there is a small group who do so for social reasons, family associations or business connections. I have nothing to say on this third reason, but if it were possible to identify this group I believe that they should pay the lot. 
I turn to the words of an old friend who told me that the common denominator of religious faiths was the belief in the brotherhood and sisterhood of mankind and that those professing religious affiliations cannot show a better attitude to others than by application of brotherly love in positive discrimination on a needs basis to children who must overcome financial, social and even family background problems, among their own, other religions and non-believers. For those who seek diversity and up to now, because of our impoverished government school system, have found it in the non-government system I say this: Diversity should not be the prerogative of those at nongovernment schools but should be available to all school systems both government and nongovernment. Of course the adequate quality of education should also be a feature of all schools. Four out of five primary school pupils and three out of four secondary school pupils attend government schools. Of the remainder at non-government primary schools, the Catholic systemic schools provide for 78 per cent. The Karmel Committee found a wide disparity among standards in schools. Using an average base of 100 units for government schools, non-government schools offered teaching resources from as low as 40 to as high as 270 units. 
In its discussion of per capita grants for independent schools, the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission kept in view its main objective, which was to achieve acceptable standards for all schools by 1979. Having regard to the overall assessment of needs and priorities the Committee felt that the payment of recurrent grants on a per capita basis could not be justified. Hence we have inserted and emphatically support clause 66. However, the Interim Committee recommended that the phasing out of such grants to schools with recurrent resources higher than the 1979 standards should take place over 2 years to avoid placing the schools in difficulties. We have made this minor change in case the difficulties are too much for those who have the least resources. It was judged however, and I quote: 
Given the limited funds available and the wide differences existing among non-government schools, uniform per capita grants would be an expensive way of bringing about acceptable standards in all schools and would unduly delay their attainment. 
We cannot delay it any longer. To give per capita grants across the board would not result in equality of opportunity to all students. This is the kernel of this debate. Clause 66 of this Bill will terminate at the end of this year the across-the-board per capita grants. But all nongovernment schools will continue to receive per capita grants from the continuing efforts of the States. 
The arguments against per capita grants are irrefutable. It should be remembered that the Commonwealth per capita system has applied only to pupils at independent schools and not to state school children. The per capita system disregards needs and gives the same grant to the children of poor parents as to the children of wealthy parents. It therefore increases rather than diminishes inequalities and increases rather than diminishes freedom of choice of school. The per capita system enables large wealthy schools indirectly to improve their facilities, for example, by providing indoor heated swimming pools, while smaller poor schools are struggling to maintain themselves. This must not be allowed to continue and schools and school systems will be accountable on their spending. The state school system is free and available to all. Parents who wish to educate their children outside the system should be free to do so, but their choice should not be subsidised beyond that needed to provide adequate education. Finally - and this has been pointed out constantly in this debate - the per capita system has been tried and has been shown to be inadequate. One need look no further than at the condition of the Catholic systemic schools revealed by the Karmel Committee. I hope that the examples I have referred to arising from the La Trobe survey will make it even more indelible on the minds of the Opposition. 
In conclusion, the Karmel report does not aim to reduce all our schools to mediocrity. It encourages diversity and a broadening of education experience as well as equality of opportunity. It recognises and discusses in depth the role in education of the teacher, the parent and the community. This Bill will put that report into effect. The great majority of parents and teachers are united in their acceptance of the report. Never before has a Federal government tackled the huge problem of education with such enthusiasm and with so much concern for all children as has been exhibited by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley).  This Bill puts into effect the Karmel Committee's recommendations designed to provide a general upgrading of facilities, special consideration for the needs of disadvantaged children and improvements in the quality of education. It has implemented a decentralised system of education, public accountability by non-government schools receiving assistance, and provision for evaluation of the assistance programs. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I can go no further than to repeat what I have said and to exhort the Opposition to drop its sham amendments, to realise that per capita grants will never mean equality of access to education and that the report of the experts who formed the Interim Committee and the legislation that has been carefully and thoroughly drafted around that to put it into effect is the only way we can uplift the standard of all school children to a high level by the end of this decade. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
Prime Minister, 
Canberra 13 December 1972 
Dear  Mr Dixon, 
I write to inform you that I have set up an Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission and I attach a copy of the list of members of the Committee and of its Terms of Reference. 
The Interim Committee is being asked to bring forward recommendations for additional Commonwealth expenditure over the years 1974 and 197S and to do so in time for the Government to consider those recommendations in its preparation of the 1973-74 Budget. 
The Interim Committee will begin work immediately and I expect the  Chairman  or the Secretariat to be in touch with you and with other school authorities shortly. 
It is the Government's intention that existing Commonwealth programmes for specific purpose grants for the benefit of schools will run their course.  Sir Ivan  Dougherty's Committee will be able to proceed with its task in respect of grants available for 1973-74, but we will need to review the arrangements for allocating the capital grants which are available under that program for the following four years. 
Per capita grants to non-government schools for the year 1973 will be paid at the rates already approved for 1973 under the provisions of that Act, Le. $62 per primary pupil and $104 per secondary pupil. Commencing in 1974 additional Commonwealth contributions towards the running costs of nongovernment schools will be determined on the basis of relative need as assessed by the Interim Committee and subsequently by the Australian Schools Commission. 
Yours sincerely, 
G. WHITLAM 

 Mr J. Dixon,  Chairman, 
National Council of Independent Schools, P.O. Box 633, Geelong, Victoria 3220 
Is that procedure agreed to? There being no objection, that procedure is agreed to. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to have recorded in Hansard page 578 of the Votes and Proceedings of the House of Representatives, which records the names of the 51 members of the Opposition who voted against the adoption of clause 66 of the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1973. It is contrary to statements which have been made outside the House by Leaders of the Opposition Parties. 
Order! The honourable member for Angas is out of order in discussing the Albury-Wodonga complex or the Murray River in debating this Bill. 
Is the Minister for Labour aware of repeated statements by the Victorian Chamber of Commerce in which it advocates that persons should have no restrictions whatsoever placed on their right to increase their income? I ask the Minister whether the Victorian Chamber of Commerce has conveyed this attitude to him, and does he agree that it is in line with the past statements and actions of that organisation? If not, will the Minister's Department investigate this sudden change of attitude? 
Order! I think I should draw the attention of the honourable member to the fact that this is an extremely narrow measure and he cannot enter into a general debate on the whole of the egg industry, otherwise we could go on all night on eggs and honey. This measure seeks to alter certain definitions in the Act to metric terms. I ask the honourable gentleman not to proceed for too long along the line he is taking although he may make passing references. 
Order! I remind the honourable gentleman that, when the honourable member for Blaxland was speaking before the suspension of the sitting, I ruled that as the provisions of this Bill were narrow this debate did not lend itself to a full scale discussion of the provisions of the principal Act. I think the honourable member for Blaxland respected the ruling that I gave. I ask the honourable gentleman not to broaden the scope of the debate in a manner that I would not allow of a previous  speaker. 
Government- 
Order! The honourable gentleman has drawn attention to the matter. 
The purpose of the amendment proposed in this clause is to allow the surrendered person to be dealt with in the requesting State or to be transferred to a third State for another extraditable offence. I might point out to the honourable member that in the Bill introduced by the Government of which he was a supporter back in 1966 the same provision for transference to a third State exists in section 13 (2) (b). The Attorney-General's consent to that person being so dealt with or transferred to a third State for that further offence is necessary. This proposes the incorporation of the modern rule of specialty into the Australian Extradition (Foreign States) legislation. In other words, we want to bring the country up to date by amending section 13 of the Act to incorporate the new internationally accepted form of the specialty rule. 
I do not know whether the honourable member has had a chance to look at it, but I have here with me an outline of the scheme relating to the rendition of fugitive offenders within the Commonwealth nations. It is my understanding that it is the same for the nonCommonwealth nations. It states the same proposition. This was the scheme that was worked out in London. My understanding is that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  attended that meeting in London. The same statement of the modern form of the specialty rule is to be found there. I commend it for the honourable member's leading. As far as other provisions are concerned, treaties exist to which effect has to be given. I have in my hand a treaty signed with the State of Sweden. It is in the form that is being discussed. Article 15 reads: 
Subject to paragraph 3 of this article a person extradited under this treaty shall not be detained in the requesting State for the purpose of his being extradited to a third State unless the requested State consents to his being so detained. 
We have a treaty with the Soviet Union signed, I believe, by the former Government to which the honourable member for Mackellar belonged. One could go on, although, as I understand it, the gist of the remarks put forward in the House and in another place, with the one exception constituted by the honourable member for Mackellar, well known for his views on these matters, is of complete support for the Government in picking up this piece of law that needs to be attended to and bringing it forward in a more modern form. It should be remembered that it was not until 1966 that the Government of Australia - not the Labor Government but the previous Government - had virtually no modern law on extradition. It was a first step to the credit of the previous Government that it took in 1966. We seek only to give effect to some of the treaties that have been signed in the meantime and to bring the state of the law up to date. 
The gist of my remarks could be summed up in this way: One goes back to the honourable member's comparison when he criticised the schedule and used words of abuse. He used words like 'a weapon of terror' and sinister'. He read out a list of lightweight offences, as he called them, to suggest how this legislation could be abused. Those lightweight offences are in identical form to that contained in the 1966 Act introduced by the former Government of which the honourable member was a member. 

 Mr WENTWORTH (Mackellar)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Order! The honourable gentleman cannot rise after I have put the question. 
 - Order! I ask honourable members to remain silent and I ask the right honourable gentleman to relate his remarks to the amendments. He is making what appears to be a speech in a second reading debate. 

 Sir John Crawford, in appendix 4 to his report, has listed the primary industry assistance measures. These measures might be examined by the Commission in 1973-74 and 1974-75. The wheat industry is to be excluded in the present 5-year scheme - a special privilege. 
What about the tobacco industry? It will not be given the privilege given to the sugar industry and the wheat industry. The apple and pear stabilisation scheme has been included in the provisions. It is fortuitous for that industry that the Bill is now before the Parliament and the industry has been able to negotiate with the Minister for Primary Industry. Of course, the Government did not review the abolition of the brandy differential at all. It just took action on brandy and imposed additional imposts. What about the rice industry? Apparently it will not be given any special privilege; it will have to go before the new Industries Assistance Commission. The dairy industry stabilisation arrangement, the bounties - including processed milk products bounties - and the industry - 
Order! I am aware of what you are going to say. Unfortunately the Standing Orders of the House do not provide the Chair with the right to instruct honourable members on how they may make their speeches. If an honourable member is misrepresented, at the appropriate time he may make a personal explanation. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="087131197312062_89_0.jpg"></graphic>

It is interesting to note some of the philosophies of member's opposite. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who led for the Opposition in this debate, made a number for points which I think require some comment. Firstly, he said that the Opposition accepted that the schedule of fees was not binding on all medical practitioners. But if any health scheme is to succeed the schedule of fees must be adhered to by a substantial majority of medical practitioners. Let us examine the record of the medical profession up to date? If we take the worst example of their record - that is, home visits by general practitioners - we find in my home State of New South Wales that in the quarter completed June 1972, 32 per cent of general practitioners were prepared to keep to the schedule of fees; for the quarter completed September 1972 the figure was 32 per cent; for the quarter completed December 1972, the figure was 31 per cent; and for the quarter completed March 1973, the figure was 29 per cent. 
Let us also consider the performances of specialists and all other medical practitioners in the three major States on the basis of the whole schedule of fees. Only 58 per cent of medical practitioners and specialists in New South Wales adhered to the schedule of fees in the June 1972 quarter. In the following three quarters the figures were 65 per cent, 70 per cent and 71 per cent. It is interesting to note that in Victoria and Queensland they have started to go bad again. The percentages for June, September and December in Victoria were 69, 70 and 71. Then in the first quarter of this year the figure went back to 70 per cent. In Queensland it has gone from 73 per cent down to 72 per cent. So one can see that the Liberal Party, in keeping its existing scheme going and in trying to fortify the out of date and unrealistic scheme that exists at present, is making a number of assumptions that are totally incorrect. The fact is that the majority of doctors, as shown from the statistical records that have been supplied, are not keeping to the schedule of fees at all. If the Liberal Party is hanging its hat on these figures, obviously the scheme it is proposing as an alternative would not succeed right from the start. 
I want to comment on the remarks of the honourable member for Chisholm about public wards. The first thing he said was that the public wards will be inundated with patients. One would suspect that not even he would think that suddenly everybody is going to get sick because a new health scheme is brought in. As far as the general practitioner is concerned there is absolutely no difference between the existing scheme and the scheme that the Government proposes. A person will elect to go to the doctor to whom he normally goes. It is interesting to note that most of the opposition that has come through this Parliament has concerned the right of a person to select his own doctor. 
How free is this choice at present? I do not blame the general practitioners. I think it is an archaic type of arrangement that a general practitioner should be on call for 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. At present the position is that he engages some other service to look after his practice during his out of hours time. So the likelihood is that a person will not be able to get the doctor of his choice during the 10 hours possibly that he is not available during the day and during the weekend period. In fact, he wil not even know who the doctor will be, because these doctors are engaged on a salary basis by various agencies. When a person telephones for the doctor he gets a message telling him the number to call, and some doctor he has never seen before in his life, about whom he knows nothing at all, comes to attend him during the period he is sick if it happens to be out of hours for most doctors in most States. As I say, I do not blame the doctors for this. But it makes hollow the argument that we must have the doctor of our choice; it is almost impossible to get the doctor of our choice. 
The Government's scheme does not alter the existing scheme in that if a person is referred to a specialist for consultation he can still go to the specialist of his choice. But it is very interesting to note that, in the discussions that the committee had with the various medical organisations - this has been stated freely by a number of people who have written papers and letters on this subject - it was revealed that about 80 per cent of people who go to a general practitioner accept the advice of that practitioner as to the specialist that they will attend. So again that makes hollow the argument about selection of the doctor of one's choice. The position of a patient going to a hospital has not yet been fully determined. These are matters that will have to be discussed both with the State governments and with the boards of the various hospitals as to how the -medical staff in those particular hospitals will be structured. 
Let me just make some criticism of the existing scheme. If there is a deficiency in the existing scheme it is that the majority of the money is going into the private sector of medical care and there is an absolute lack of money in the public sector. One can see this because the former Minister for Health in the previous Government will freely admit that over a period of time he was inundated with requests from the States for some special consideration in relation to hospitals where there were grave deficiencies. The Government has allocated some $4m in the coming year to the hospital complex at Westmead in Sydney. In my own electorate, which has a modern hospital because it is a new area, there is a bed ratio of 2.2 per thousand of population, which is one of the lowest ratios in Australia. In other words, we are gravely deficient of public beds in our area. That is common in many of the fast growing areas of New South Wales. If one goes to some of the country areas in which previously there were fairly large populations one will find a great abundance of beds. Recently one of the parliamentary committees visited a country town in New South Wales in which there were 29 maternity beds and only one of them was occupied. Taking the overall figure for New South Wales, the bed population ratio looks reasonable, but comparing the distribution of those beds with the population the position is entirely different. 
This week I handed certain reports to the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  and asked him whether he would look at the position in my electorate in order to ascertain whether something could be done in next year's allocation about making available some special grants to try to overcome the critical problem that is developing there in the public hospital sector. That is where the money has been taken away from. The same situation exists in Queensland. The people of Queensland are looking anxiously to the $30m that they are to get for the upgrading of their public hospitals. Because Queensland has expended its money over a period of years on health care, to the detriment of the buildings, it has been able to provide for its people. Labor's scheme proposes to make available to people money where it should be applied and where it is not being applied at present. 
The Opposition must be terribly disconcerted by the success of the medical centres that have been established in Canberra by the Minister for Health, who is now sitting at the table. All sorts of dire predictions were made as to what would happen when this proposition was first put forward. It was said that no doctors would apply for any of the jobs. Of course the opposite has been the case. A number of specialists have consulted with us and said: 'If you can offer me a position at a salary which is commensurate with my experience and capabilities and you can offer me superannuation, annual leave, sabbatical leave and the other things to which I would normally be entitled, I will be delighted to work on a salary. I would be delighted to be able to apply myself full time to the health care of the people'. The health centres that have been established in Canberra have been an outstanding success. They have provided doctors with the opportunity of getting on with the job of providing medical care to the people of Canberra. They have also provided social workers to take away from the doctors the unnecessary task that most general practitioners have to face up to in their practice of dealing not only with the medical problems of their patients but also the social and other problems that exist. Of course, the Government has not had any shortage of people wanting to work in these centres. There has been a great response from people who want to devote themselves full time to the medical care of people. I am quite convinced that this will be the same with the Government's scheme. 
As I have said, the arrangements that will have to be made with the States are still open to negotiation, but I am quite sure that a majority of the States will be able to negotiate with the medical people who are currently operating in their districts to serve in their hospitals in a full time or sessional capacity. I am quite sure that we will be able to provide to the people who go to those hospitals the very best medical care, which is what the people are interested in. They are not interested in the personality of the doctor. They are interested in getting the very best of medical care that can be made available to them. It will be made available through this scheme. 
The Opposition's token opposition in the debate tonight has shown the shallowness of its proposals. The Opposition knows full well that this is a scheme which the people of Australia want, that a great number of medical people are in favour of it and that the only opposition is coming from those sectional interests who have some pecuniary position to defend. 
Debate interrupted. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="087131197312110_43_0.jpg"></graphic>

I do not wish to follow the lead of honourable members opposite by using the privilege of this House to denigrate the competence of professional persons. However, I have to say that once one has seen the Shrapnel report itself it becomes clear that the Voluntary Health Insurance Association has bought a damp squib. In fact, the only differences of any consequence between the Shrapnel figures and the estimates in the White Paper are the results of errors and misconceptions on the part of the authors of the Shrapnel report. Whatever their expertise in other fields, the authors of this report reveal an ignorance of the working of the health care system and the way in which health services are funded. 
Quite apart from these misconceptions many of the Shrapnel report figures are based neither on previous trends nor on any coherent reason for departing from them. Let me quote one example. Hospital benefits days under the subsidised health benefits plan increased by 42.7 per cent in 1971-72 and by 27.7 per cent in 1972-73. The report assumes that no further increases will occur and that the total subsidised health benefits days under the existing scheme will remain constant at the 1972-73 level of 815,000 days right through to 1977-78. These days could be expected to increase in future years by 15 per cent to 20 per cent at least. One of the reasons advanced for this extraordinary assumption is 'liberalisation of the pensioner medical service'. In the first place, as the White Paper makes clear, the pensioner medical service means test is not to be liberalised. In the second place, even if it were, the impact would be minimal, since the subsidised health benefits plan and the pensioner medical service cater for 2 entirely different groups in the community. 
This is one example only of the oddities and errors in the assumptions and techniques used in formulating the estimates in the Shrapnel report. There are many more. It is difficult to say how important some of them are. It must be realised - and I acknowledge - that all estimates of future events involve the use of assumptions, and there is legitimate scope for differences of opinion about what assumptions are or are not reasonable. For this reason I do not propose to quibble about minor differences which could lie within the range of error which must always attach to estimates. Nor shall I refer to the projection of costs for 5 years ahead, to 1977-78, which can only be described as flights of fancy. 
But in the limited time available to me in the House I want to outline 2 major errors in the Shrapnel figures. The first is the statement that hospital costs in 1974-75 will be SI 62m higher - that is S762m as against S600m - than under the existing scheme. This statement involves a very substantial underestimate of benefits under the existing scheme, together with a total misunderstanding of what hospital costs are and what the sources of hospital revenues are. The under-estimate of costs under the present scheme is based on quite arbitrary forecasts of numbers of hospital days, which bear no relationship to past experience or to what is known of current trends. The effect of this is compounded by projecting the rates of increase in fee and benefit rates which are totally inconsistent with cost trends on which other figures are based. The combined effect of these 2 errors could be more than $50m in 1974-75. To achieve comparability between the 2 sets of figures, the estimates of costs under the new program should be reduced by $15m for a start to adjust for the workers' compensation and motor third party cases which will be covered under the new program but not under the existing scheme. 
But the major error of the Shrapnel report in its comparison of hospital costs is not the way in which the estimates are calculated. Table 11 in the Shrapnel report on hospital benefits - from which the figures of $762m and $600m are taken - is titled in part 'Comparison of Costs of Hospital Services'. It is no such thing. The attempted comparison completely ignores the very large elements of hospital costs which are represented by State government subsidies and by fees not covered by benefits and therefore met directly by patients out of their own pockets. The plain commonsense position is that the cost of running hospitals will be substantially the same under either system and that these costs will have to be met by people, one way or the other. Since it is stated objective of the program to relieve the burden on the State governments and to reduce the amounts paid by individual patients in the form of uninsured fees, it is obvious that more must come from the remaining sources of funds, namely, the Australian Government and private funds. It is nonsense to add up the amounts coming from these 2 sources - even if the calculations are done correctly - and say that the result is a measure of hospital 'costs'. But by doing this the Shrapnel report has managed to produce a totally spurious difference of $162m between hospital 'costs' in 1974-75 under the 2 schemes. In fact, the figure is wrong and the remaining gap' is represented by reduced State subsidies and patients' contributions. The only true difference in hospital costs under the present scheme will be due to the payment of doctors for services now performed on an honorary basis. 
I have only a few minutes left and I would like to move very quickly to the question of medical services. In this area again one can say that the estimates are no closer to the mark than are the estimates of hospital costs. In particular they involve large over-estimates of the costs of services under the new program as well as other errors. The most unlikely estimates of all are made in respect of cost of services provided to pensioner medical service pensioners under the new program. Indeed, the discrepancy between the Shrapnel estimates of $199m in 1974-75 compared with the Health Insurance Planning Committee's figure of $60m might, one would think, have prompted second thoughts on the part of those responsible. But in the event they have published a figure which is absurdly wrong and which is based on demonstrably false and even naive assumptions. 
Consider for a moment how this figure of $199m was arrived at. The chain of reasoning starts with the fair estimate that in 1974-75 pensioners would use an average of 9 general practitioner services under the existing PMS scheme. It continues with the observation that general practitioner attendances comprised 58 per cent of the 4.7 services per non-pensioner patient under the medical benefits scheme in 1972-73. Then it makes what can only be regarded as an heroic assumption that since all pensioners would be covered under the new program they would incur fees for all other services in the same proportion to GP attendances as members of the insured population generally. This is an invalid approach for a number of reasons. Firstly, the report assumes that the pensioner medical service is limited to general practitioner attendances. This is not so. It includes a number of other services as well. So the assumption is wrong on its own grounds. But, more importantly, the assump tion is made that the PMS pensioners will use, and will be billed for, all other services - that is, specialist services in particular - at more than 3 times the rate of other members of the population. This overlooks the fact that when they are in hospital most pensioners will, as now, be treated as hospital patients and their medical services will not be a charge on medical benefits. 
For specialist services out of hospital, most pensioners - except those already insured - now look to out-patient departments of public hospitals. Although they will be eligible under the new program for benefits for all private medical services, it is reasonable to assume that in many cases they will maintain their customary patterns of treatment. For this reason alone it is unrealistic to assume that they have the same relationship between general practitioner and specialist services as the rest of the population. In fact, the Health Insurance Planning Committee allowed for a rate of specialist attendances to PMS pensioners which was well above the utilisation of the rest of the insured population. But the Shrapnel report compounds its over-estimate of PMS utilisation by the fantastic assumption that all doctors would refuse to accept assignment of benefits and would instead charge pensioner fees at full patient rates. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-- The concepts of community health services and a health commission is one which is developing in a number of fields. We have the Social Welfare Commission and a number of education commissions. I think that the most important feature of these bodies is that they are motivated by the needs of the community for service and their recommendations are recommendations by people who have something other than a political motive for developing programs of health care. It is all very well for people to say that we have a free choice of health services and that people have the right to go to the doctor of their choice and the right to choose the type of treatment that they want. This is just not true. 
There are 2 classes of people in Australia when it comes to health care - those who live in areas which are well served by doctors in private practice and those who do not. It can be pretty accurately estimated that those who live in areas which are well served by doctors are normally those people in the middle to upper income brackets, and those who live in areas where health care is not readily available are those in the lower income brackets. It may be only a coincidence that under existing health insurance, those people who live in the areas best served by medical practice are the people who pay the least for the care they receive because of the greater compensations they receive from governments in the form of taxation concessions and the like. 
Geelong, the city which basically I represent, although part of it is not in my electorate, has conflicting demographic areas at the north and the south of the area. At the southern end of Geelong at Highton and Belmont there are twice as many general practitioners available to the population as there are in the northern part of the city, which is mainly an area of housing commission development, and the ratio may be even higher than 2 to 1. I refer now to the concept of community health centres. Norlane is an area where for at least 10 years - possibly longer than that - the Victorian Government has set aside land for the development of a second hospital in the Geelong area. I think modern thinking in health management would suggest that one would not build a second base hospital in the Geelong area in the near future and possibly not for many years. But the need for access to health care is very great. I seem to remember someone earlier today - I think, most likely, that it was the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  - suggesting that some people do not have health care available to them. He mentioned the person who was sick in bed and who could not obtain the services of a general practitioner. The suggestion was that the person would get up and go to his public hospital out-patients' centre to obtain treatment. One could well imagine a person who has had a coronary or something else doing that 
He did. The honourable member should read his speech. That is exactly what he said - that they would get up and go to the out-patients' centre of their public hospital. 
Those are the words he used. The facts of the matter are, of course, that for some people access to a doctor in private practice is just non-existent because of the work load of those doctors who choose to continue to practise in what must be considered to be unfashionable areas, and community health centres would seem to be the best means by which health care facilities can be made readily available to these people in the best possible manner. It is not unusual in this day and age for people to be asked for cash before treatment in areas where I am sure doctors carry heavy loads of bad debts, but the fact that a person does not have the money to pay does not alter his need for care. The suggestion that if people are given free access to doctors or health services they will over-utilise the services is a one way suggestion. It .suggests that if a financial penalty is imposed on the people who cannot afford to pay they will over-utilise the service but that it does not matter if those who can afford to pay overutilise the service. Evidently, that is very good and possibly wholesome. I think over-utilisation is a problem which is pretty widespread among those who can afford to pay and who are in no way limited in their over-utilisation by financial penalties. It may be, although I do not think it is, as prevalent among those who cannot afford to pay. I think it is more likely that those people, especially mothers of large families, deny themselves medical services because they do not wish to embarrass their families financially. 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  and the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  made a point relating to dealing with allocations of funds by the Minister in the same way hs we deal with regulations in this Parliament, so that either House could reject any ministerial decision made in this area. I think that this would be a very dangerous precedent. It is something which the Opposition parties never sought to apply to themselves when in office. It is always significant that people want to protect the public from people other than themselves. The argument in relation to consultation with the States is very interesting when we remember that late last year the then Government introduced a Bill relating to child minding centres which took no account whatsoever of State Departments of Health which were looking after that matter. In fact, it absolutely overrode them and did not even place those child minding centres within the Federal Departments of Health or Education and Science but in fact made them part of the Department of Labour and National Service, as it was then called. The State Ministers were not to be consulted, State governments were not to be consulted and municipal councils were to be totally excluded from access to the scheme. So, when people talk about consulting the States and protecting State rights, I would have thought that the pre-school education and child minding area was very specifically one for the States; but in cases in which it suited the former government it had no compunction at all in excluding the States from its legislation. 
In 1968-69 the Victorian Government refused to participate in schemes which were set up 'by means of legislation passed through this House. I refer to legislation relating to paramedical services, home care for the aged and elderly citizens clubs. The Victorian Government for 2 or 3 years refused to participate in the latter scheme because it had not been consulted in relation to it and it did not agree with it. To suggest at this stage that we should consult the States when the previous Government never bothered to do it or very rarely bothered to do it is to adopt a 'holier than thou' attitude. This Parliament is responsible for its own legislation and it must remain so. To suggest that political bias may affect the allocations of funds made by a Minister at some future time is to suggest, firstly, that the Commission could become a corrupt body - I do not think any honourable member of this House would suggest that - and, secondly, that political bias has never affected the decisions of governments of any political colour in the past. If the honourable gentleman who made that suggestion would care to do so, he can accompany me to 2 high schools in my electorate which because of political bias - I say this quite advisedly - have been denied Commonwealth funds for libraries and science blocks while schools which are much better able to afford them have had them for 6 or 7 years. No one suggested that the list of proposed allocations, including those very welcome gifts of libraries and science blocks, should have been tabled in both Houses of the Parliament so that those who were opposed to the Government could sort them out and deny the allocation of the funds going to Government areas while allowing allocations to go to their own areas. 
I think it is naive and actually destructive to suggest that every decision in relation to one particular area should be subject to parliamentary approval or should be subject to rejection by one or other of the Houses of the Parliament. If the suggestion were that the allocations go through in the form of a Bill, it might be a little more reasonable. At least then both Houses would have to agree to their passage. But this suggestion that one House should have the power to sort out which schemes it wants is fairly irresponsible, especially when one looks at the record of the previous Government in this field. I do not hear any honourable members opposite making this sort of suggestion - I did not hear them make the suggestion when in government either - in relation to the Aged Persons Homes Act under which money is provided for nursing homes. Although nursing homes were fairly substantially a State responsibility, they have been taken over almost totally by the Commonwealth by means of a Bill passed by this Parliament last year. They have been taken over to the extent that nursing homes no longer even fix their own fees. It should be noted that the State governments were not consulted about that matter. So I think the suggestion that State governments should be consulted is a lot of humbug. 
The other thing I wish to point out is that recently the Victorian Minister of Health, when he brought down a Bill which allowed private organisations access to statistical information on hospitals but denied the same access to the Commonwealth Government, did not consult the Commonwealth Government about that matter. I do not remember any indication that the State governments consult the Commonwealth about these sorts of matters before they introduce legislation. The Victorian Minister of Health is now desperately trying to find a way around his own Bill. I support the concept of community health centres. I hope that in the very near future it will be possible for members of the community in the Norlane area, which is in my electorate in the northern areas of Geelong, to get together and draw up a proposal for such a scheme. I hope that all of the community bodies will co-operate in a proposal for a community health centre in the NorlaneCorio area because at the moment that area is under-serviced by doctors and will continue in that situation because it is not what is known as a fashionable area. 
The fear that doctors going into salaried medical practice will in some way endanger private practice is not really supportable. Doctors go into salaried practice only from choice. The greatest danger to the general practitioner is not salaried medical practice but the attractiveness of entering specialist areas. This trend has evolved largely because of the Gorton amendments to the national health scheme which gave a very special position in the health scheme to specialists visavis general practitioners. The discussions I have had in this regard indicate that general practitioners have had a very raw deal. Unfortunately, because of the activities of a very small section of them, there is not a great deal of sympathy for them in the community, even though they represent the area of medical practice which most likely is in the greatest need of review at the present time. 
I conclude on this note: The proposals before the House are to set up a Hospitals and Health Services Commission to investigate and make recommendations on health needs, hospital needs and community health centre needs. I think that this proposal should be supported by this House. I am sure that it will be supported by this House. I hope that the Opposition parties, in what appears to be a negative attitude, do not tie the whole thing up with red tape and procedures which will ensure that the Commission cannot work, as they have attempted to do in relation to other legislation. The Opposition parties should remember that any tying up of proposals by the use of their numbers in the Senate in order to take away from Ministers the power or the authority which they normally have exercised in the past not only will reflect on the present Government but also will hamper very seriously all future governments in their operations. If one chooses to tie down a Minister in a manner which prevents him from carrying out the responsibilities which are allocated to him by this Parliament, one is tying down all Ministers in the same way, and we could, and will, reach a situation where government will become impossible because of the over-regulation that one is trying to build into a system in order to protect one's own interests at this time. 
In regard to the suggestion by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  that we do not discuss reports in this Parliament and that they go on the notice paper, I say to him that he should revive his memory and go back and have a look at the notice paper of last year, the year before, the year before that and any other year in the last 25 years and he will find that at any reasonable time after the start of a session 20 or 30 reports had been tabled and not debated in this House. That has always been the case. I think it is unfortunate, but it is one of the facts of parliamentary life and I think the honourable member would acknowledge that. 
Is leave granted for the Minister for Minerals and Energy to move his amendments together? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Amendments (by  Mr Connor)  proposed: 
Clause 7 of the Bill sets out the functions of the Authority which permit it to explore and recover and deal with minerals. In view of the lack of justification by the Government in regard to minerals, one wonders why this Bill gives the Authority control over minerals. The powers and functions of the Authority, as set out in clauses 6, 7 and 8, are to explore for, to recover and to go right through the gamut of operations to the buying and selling  of petroleum and minerals. It may assist but not provide financial assistance by way of grant or subsidy to private industry, it may make schemes designed to ascertain the quantities of petroleum and minerals available for recovery in Australia, and it may operate pipelines. Very shortly expressed, they are the powers and functions of this Authority. So one can see that it operates over the whole field from exploration to recovery to utilisation of petroleum and minerals. 
How then is it to carry out these powers and these functions? In other words, how can it get a right to explore and recover petroleum and minerals? If we look at clause 43 of the Bill we find that the exploration and recovery right is achieved by a very simple but devious administrative device. It is by the publication of a notice in the Gazette of an area to be described as an exploration area either for petroleum or minerals. It may be any part of the Australian continental land mass, that is, not only the Australian continent as we know it - the on-shore land mass, we might call it - but also the off-shore land mass as defined, going beyond the 200 metre mark, beyond what is known as the continental shelf. That is a new description of Australia - the Australian continental land mass. By this administrative device an area can be defined as the area where this national Authority may explore or carry on operations to recover either petroleum or minerals. 
There is nothing to stop the Authority describing in a Gazette the whole of the Australian continental land mass as the petroleum or minerals exploration area into which it can move. It can seek the consent of the owner or occupier of the area nominated as an exploration area. If the occupier does not consent, all that the Authority needs to do is to walk down the corridor, find a justice of the peace and obtain a warrant to enter that land, notwithstanding any objection at all that the occupier or the owner may have. The Authority can then walk in, explore and carry on recovery operations. If it finds minerals or petroleum, then by virtue of clause 45 once that mineral or petroleum is recovered it becomes the property of the Authority and any right or interest that an individual or a State has in those minerals or the petroleum is excluded. It is converted to a right to compensation. 
The extent of the operation of this device must be understood against the context that within Australia all minerals and petroleum are owned by each of the States of Australia except in those rare situations where what we call in Western Australia a pre-federation title gives to the owner not only the right to the surface soil but also the right to the minerals under the surface. With a State owning all minerals - be they metals or petroleum - a person is given a licence under State mining law to go in and explore, and once he discovers then to recover. In that sense the person who has explored and recovered under a State mining right has the property in those minerals. 
Against that background one has to look at clause 9 of this Bill which seeks to invoke certain constitutional authority needs to be looked at. It invokes the interstate trade and commerce power, the overseas trade power and the defence power as well as the right of the Commonwealth to make laws in respect of Territories. That is the constitutional source of power upon which the Bill draws. It is to no purpose to look at clause 9 and say that that limits the extent of this Authority's power to act. The proper way in which to look at this is to assume the constitutional validity of what is done and then to look at the full extent  qf  the operation of this Authority given the constitutional validity expressed in clause 9. About that I say only this: I have grave doubts that it does validly draw upon the constitutional powers expressed in clause 9. We should ask ourselves the simple question: Is the right to explore for minerals pursuant to this law a law in respect of mining or is it a law in respect of trade and commerce between the States, in a Territory or between a State and a Territory, or is it a law with respect to overseas trade? I venture to suggest that the quick and obvious answer is that it is a law with respect to mining and therefore it does not have any constitutional validity. 
But assume that it does. Having regard to section 109 of the Constitution which renders paramount over any State law a law of the Commonwealth, let us assume that a declaration of a petroleum exploration area made under clause 43 of the Bill is a valid exercise of Commonwealth power. This means that all State laws dealing with mining in respect of that particular area go for nought. It has no lawful authority when it stands alongside the exercise of Commonwealth power, assuming, as I say, that the constitutional validity is there. Therefore this Authority may by this administrative device of notifying an area in the Gazette as an exploration area take over completely anywhere in Australia - any prospective area for minerals or petroleum - the right to explore or recover minerals. Let us look also at the position in a State where a company has a mining right, has gone into an area and has discovered minerals but has not yet recovered them. The Authority comes to know about it. The Authority then, in respect of that area where minerals or petroleum have been discovered, declares it to be an exploration area within the operation of the Authority. The company which has a right under State mining law is then overridden by this Authority and the Authority alone can recover those minerals. All that the company, which has spent millions of dollars to discover minerals, has is a right to compensation. This is a complete transgression of the whole of the mining and petroleum administration in Australia. It must be understood by the whole of the industry and by the people of Australia that, given the constitutional validity of this Bill, this Authority will be put in a position of paramountcy over all the law that presently operates in Australia. One can multiply these examples over and over again. I have tried to give a thumb nail sketch of the full operation and effect of this Authority. Given that thumbnail sketch, it is no wonder that the Opposition totally opposes this Bill and it is no wonder that our opposition will be carried into the Senate. 
Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

<graphic href="087131197312121_75_0.jpg"></graphic>

Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The Schedule, omit the figure and words -  " S. The Principal Act is further amended as set out in the following table: - ". substitute-  " 5. The Principal Act is further amended as set out in the following tables: - 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Schedule, omit from both columns of the table in paragraph 5 the words and figures relating to sections 34 (b), 34 (c), and 34 (d). 
Schedule, omit from both columns of the table in paragraph 5 the words and figures relating to section50 (5c). 
Schedule, omit from both columns of the table in paragraph 5 the words and figures relating to sections 55 (1) (g) and 55 (7). 
Schedule, omit from both columns of the table in paragraph 5 the words and figures relating to sections 82(9), 82 (9a) and 82(10), substitute the following words and figures: - "Section 82 (9a)  Omit 'Governor-General', substitute ' Minister '. 
Schedule, omit from both columns of the table in paragraph 5 the words and figures relating to Schedules 4, 5 and 6. 
As I foreshadowed in my speech during the second reading stage, these amendments seek to reinstate into the Public Service Act the provisions requiring the oath or affirmation of allegiance to be taken by members of the Public Service. There is a consequential amendment. There is provision in section 82, subsection (9a), of the Act for dispensation of the requirement of the oath or affirmation of allegiance to be granted by the GovernorGeneral. The Opposition's amendment here is to substitute the Minister - that is, the Minister in charge of the Act - for the GovernorGeneral. Shortly, the reason for substituting the Minister for the Governor-General is for practical reasons only, to overcome the necessity to go to His Excellency when a dispensation is required. 
The Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  has said that the Government does not see any need for the oath or affirmation of allegiance because the relationship between the Public Service and the public servants is largely one of employer and employee. I dispute that. The relationship is one of a servant to the Crown, which is something different from the relationship between employer and employee in private industry. The oath of allegiance is regarded as being necessary in the Public Service because the public servant is not a servant of the Parliament but a servant of the Government. The Government members are drawn from members of Parliament but the Government members are appointed by the Queen. And so the public servants are servants of the Government and therefore of the Crown. It is approporiate then that they be required, as a condition of eligibility of appointment), to make this oath or affirmation. It is as well to remind the House of the terms of that oath. It is as follows: 
I, John Citizen, do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to the Queen, and will loyally as in duty bound uphold the Constitution of the Com monwealth of Australia established under the Crown of the United Kingdom. So help me, God! 
The affirmation is in the same terms except that it affirms rather than swears that allegiance. I do not think there is anything more I need to say on this matter. The position of the Government and of the Opposition is clear. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Viner's)  be agreed to. 
Order! Is it the wish of the House to adopt this procedure? 
Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage of this Bill has expired. The question is: 'That clause 4 be agreed to'. 
Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage of the Bill has expired. 
Order! The time allotted for the Committee stage of this debate has expired. 
Question put. 
That clause 2 be agreed to. 
Listening to the speeches made so far by members of the Opposition one cannot help being struck by the contradiction which is involved in their position. They are asking for greater time to discuss and debate legislation in the House and are proposing to vote to reduce the amount of time which will be available for this purpose. 
I think that the honourable member for Wimmera, now sitting in Opposition, sat in Government long enough to hear members of the present Government, then in Opposition make the same pleas day after day, week after week, for more sitting days. The previous Government did not accommodate the former Opposition. I think it is fair to say that members of the Opposition now, just as the members of the Opposition then, have not been all that unhappy that they were not accommodated. They were able to make their proper pleas for more time for debate and also to spend the time that they wanted to spend in their electorates. I think that is the truth of the situation. It operated when other people were in government, as it operates now. 
The point I make is that all members will find an earlier sitting time on Tuesday somewhat of an inconvenience. We would all like to stay in our electorates longer. But if we want to participate and have some reasonable time for debate - and it is becoming increasingly difficult for the Parliament, because of the pressure of legislation which is passing through this Parliament, to have the sort of time that is desirable - it may well be that some time in the not too distant future the procedures may have to be seriously looked at so that adequate time can be made available. But the major point about this matter is that the Opposition Parties must make a decision whether the committees to which they have referred are as important as the Parliament itself. The remarks made so far by Opposition members have suggested that the committees to which they referred are more important than the Parliament and that if it is a choice between the Parliament sitting and the committees sitting the Opposition believes the committees should sit. 
The adjournment debate has been mentioned. I personally agree with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  that it is important that members have the opportunity to speak on the adjournment in order to put their points of view. But as one who spoke on the adjournment fairly regularly in previous parliaments I would prefer to do so between 10.30 p.m. and 11 p.m. than as previously occurred, between 1 a.m. and 4 a.m. It is difficult for members to make a valid point at that time. The time allocated for the adjournment debate is 30 minutes each night. There are some recommendations to the Standing Orders Committee, which are not before the House, on speaking times. But 30 minutes each night for debate on the adjournment will provide an hour and a half of debate each week. The amount of time allocated in the last session for the adjournment debate was 45 minutes on 2 nights and 15 minutes on the other night, so that the difference between the 2 procedures is 15 minutes a week. I suggest to the House that this is a more rational approach. 
So far as the Opposition is concerned in relation to this question of adjournment, the time under the normal procedures of the House will be allocated on the basis that the Opposition will get one hour of the hour and a half available for debate on the adjournment motion each week and Government members will get 30 minutes. That one hour available to the Opposition Parties will at least be equivalent to the amount of time that the Opposition had on the adjournment debate in the previous Parliament. So the arguments about reduction in time should come from this side of the House, where, if a Minister intervenes in the adjournment debate, Government members will have a very limited time to speak in that debate. 
I think that arguments on this kind of motion are fairly pointless. I believe that members are elected to participate in the activities and debates of this Parliament. I do not believe that any arguments put forward which suggest that we should restrict the sitting times of the Parliament to meet some other form of convenience are valid. The Parliament does not have time to deal with its business. The sitting hours are being extended in a very minor way. There will be inconveniences. As I have said before, all of us like to stay home on Monday nights and when winter comes we will not be game to do so. Government members have more problems than Opposition members in this respect. If Opposition members do not get here on time, that does not really matter. 
That is not true, either. The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  who represents the Queensland electorate furthest removed from Canberra, is a Labor member. That is another question. 
I support the motion. I believe that it is unfortunate that the Opposition is seeking by its amendment to alter the sitting times of the House in a manner which would restrict the hours available for debate. The other point which I feel I must make is this: I would like to hear from the Opposition whether it is proposing to compensate for the sitting time that would be lost if its amendment is accepted by moving further to extend the sittings hours, as was done in the past, into the wee small hours of the morning. I doubt that members on the other side of the House honestly want the automatic adjournment at 11 p.m. to be dropped. I think that we should continue with that procedure. It is to the credit of the Leader of the House that he has stuck rigidly to that adjournment time irrespective of the pressure of business before the House. If we are to maintain the procedure whereby the House rises at II o'clock each night, which is at least partially civilized, we must put up with some inconvenience by sitting earlier in the day. If members opposite suggest that the House should sit beyond 1 1 p.m. I should like to hear them say so. 
I want to make only one point. During the period of the previous Parliament to which the Opposition Whip referred I can remember waiting night after night for an adjournment debate. There was never an adjournment debate on a Tuesday night. The honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  suggests that 2 hours was available for the debate. Whilst the present times remain for the debate there will be 1 hour available to the Opposition each week on the adjournment debate which is at least as much and I think a great deal more than the Opposition received during the previous Parliament. 1 think we would find that would be the position if we took out the figures over a period of time. If we ascertained the amount of time in which members were forced to debate the adjournment motion after midnight I suggest that we would discover that the time available for honourable members was very much less than 2 hours or even 1 hour a night. I think we also have to take into consideration the fact that in the previous Parliament there was no adjournment debate on Tuesday night. Now, under this proposal, members will get half an hour. 
There is one other point that must be made. Under the previous Government the grievance debate just did not happen. In one year we had a Grievance Day debate only 3 times. We now have a Grievance Day debate once in every 2 weeks of sittings. That is a far better time for honourable members to put their points of view provided their Whip is prepared to put their names on the program. If we include Grievance Day debating time, which was practically non-existent under the previous Government, under this proposal private members will have at least as much time available to them for the debate of private matters during adjournment debates or Grievance Day debates as they ever had before. 
I suggest that it is a lot of humbug for members of the Opposition to suggest that they provided adequate time for private members to debate matters. They never allowed any general business to be resolved and they wiped out Grievance Day debates on every occasion on which it suited them. I suggest that honourable members opposite should look through the records of the Parliament and see how often that there was a Grievance Day debate. 
We are talking about the time of adjournment. I would not expect the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  to understand. Rarely do senior members of governments attend adjournment debates, they never attended in the time of the former Government. That is something that cannot be said about the present Government. Appropriate ministers at least come into the House and take note of what is being said. I think that this is a lot of humbug. Private members received no rights or consideration under the former Government. Under the present Government at least they are assured that general business matters will be brought to a vote. What is it all about if general matters are not brought to a vote? It is of no use coming in here and talking about general business matters and then not being prepared to vote on them. One member of the Government parties during the last Parliament brought up a general business matter, thundered about it with all the wrath that he could command, then walked over to the other side of the House and voted against enabling his motion being voted upon. That it what this is all about. If a member wants to put up a motion he should be prepared to vote on it. 
This Government is giving the Opposition the opportunity and the responsibility of working out whether it is prepared to vote on some of the motions that come forward. Members are able to talk in the Grievance Day debate every second Thursday when the Parliament sits. That is something that no one on the Opposition side now can claim to have given to the previous Opposition. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
Sitting suspended from 6.13 to 8 p.m. 
I want to raise one or two matters tonight. The first concerns a proposal on which the Geelong Cultural Institute has been working for a number of years. It is a proposal to build a theatre complex in Geelong to replace certain properties which the Institute, which is incorporated under a Victorian Act of Parliament, holds. The proposal, which involves the expenditure of some $3m, will provide Geelong, which is a rapidly growing centre, with a much needed outlet for the creative talents of the performing arts. As I have said, this proposal requires the expenditure of a considerable sum of money. After some 2 years of negotiation the Victorian Government has agreed to provide up to $2m of the cost, and local government bodies have been asked to provide about $500,000. The remainder of the money is to be raised by public subscription. 
Unfortunately, I think that the committee which considered this proposal overlooked the fact that subscriptions to this type of project are not tax deductible under the provisions of the Income Tax Act. At the time when inquiries were made it was no longer possible even to use a loophole, which had existed in the Act up to this year, by calling the proposal a war memorial. So the situation is that without tax deductibility the professional fund raising firms feel that it is not possible to raise by public subscription the sums of money required. For this reason a request is now before the Commonwealth Government for financial assistance towards the construction of this project. 
It is an important project and one which is worthy of consideration. I recognise .that if the Commonwealth does give support to such a project it will be a completely new area of activity. This is something which cannot be entered into lightly because no demands can be taken in isolation. I make the point that Geelong has been designated as a growth centre. It is an area of some 140,000 people and would warrant the type of support that I have asked the Government to consider. I raise this matter tonight because the peculiar problem of raising funds which now confronts the committee is of some urgency. Costs are rising at a very substantial rate and delays must inevitably occur in the calling of tenders and the signing of contracts. I understand that the Victorian Government has placed an embargo on the procedures on this matter until such time as a decision is made by the Commonwealth Government. I hope that the Victorian Government is not acting in this way purely for political purposes, although I have a suspicion that that is the case. The point I make and which I wish to repeat is that the matter is of some considerable urgency and I hope that in the not too distant future a decision favourable to the Institute can be made by the Government 
I raise one other matter. It also is of some consequence, although it is not of the same local content. Any one reading the Press today or listening to the public media over the last couple of weeks could be misled into thinking that the Australian people will be asked in the next few weeks to agree to cut out elections in Australia or in some way to change the electoral laws to give serious advantage to one party or another. What is being proposed is that a system whereby advantage exists be eliminated. One of the most interesting statements I have read is a statement by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  that large areas will be disadvantaged if population is used as a basis for any change in electoral laws. I merely point out to the House that the largest electorate in Australia is represented in this House by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard).  It has the third greatest population of any electorate in Australia. I suggest that that electorate is disadvantaged by the counting of electors as opposed to population. 
I make one other point on this matter. In Australia we have a situation where the Australian people have no basic guarantees that governments will hold elections other than for the Federal Parliament. In fact in New South Wales elections are not held for one of the Houses of Parliament. That House is an appointed House. There is nothing to. prevent various franchises from being introduced which restrict or deny the majority pf voters the opportunity to participate in elections. This has occurred in the past - this type of restric tion of franchise can be equally and easily applied to the lower House of any of the State parliaments where conservative governments have control. Where Labor governments have control this is not possible, because the Upper House in each of the States where there are Labor governments at present at least are so structured that conservative majorities are guaranteed irrespective of what way the people vote. 
That is a democratic proposition. We have a situation in Western Australia, for instance, where in one Upper House electorate there are 85,000 electors and in another electorate there are 5,400 electors, a difference which represents an effective 15 votes for an elector in one electorate compared with one vote for an elector in another electorate. In the Lower House in that State the difference is 1,900 to 19,000. It is said that distance is important. But when governments are elected they are elected to represent people. When members who come here or are elected to any Parliament they are nominally at least, although not in practice in Australia in most State parliaments, representatives of the people who elect them. If one member represents 15 times the number of electors represented by another member who has equal voting on the floor of the Parliament, the Parliament is not democratically elected. One can rationalise that in any way one likes by using percentages, but the facts are that if the system is to be democratic every person who is above the age at which a vote is allowed and is an Australian citizen or a British subject is entitled to vote, and any diminution of that right to have a full vote in the election of a parliament is a denial of democratic principle. I make the point - I shall briefly mention exactly what the situation is in Australia - that it is said that every political party in Australia has engaged in gerrymanders - and that is true. It is all the more reason why there should be protection for people against such gerrymanders. I make this point: Queensland has no Upper House. It has a very badly rigged electoral system, a system which is capable of being rigged no matter which party is in power to provide almost perpetual electoral success. The only reason the present State Government ever got into power in Queensland - I would hope those people who are always crying would have mentioned this - is that there was a split in the governing party which enabled a change of government, which subsequently led to a reverse gerrymander so that the new governing party can stay in office in perpetuity. It is possible for that single House of Parliament, which is not elected by a majority of electors, to pass laws to restrict the franchise in any way it wishes. It could restore the situation that prevailed in England at the time of the great Reform Bill where one electorate with five - 
We are debating the Address-in-Reply to the Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty the Queen in opening this Federal Parliament. It is interesting to note that in this debate honourable members opposite have been at great pains to indicate that the Speech was not written by  Her  Majesty but was written by the Government on her behalf. One would almost imagine that previous speeches, including the magnificent one which was made in 1969 by  Sir Paul  Hasluck, were written by the Governor-General of the day. I have never heard a weaker or more fallacious argument come from any party in this Parliament. Anyone with any sort of knowledge of parliamentary affairs is fully aware that, when the Queen or her representative says that her Government will do this or her Government will do that, she is speaking on the advice of her Ministers and it does not matter whether they are conservative or 'Labor Ministers. 
Last night in this debate we heard from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  one of the most remarkable speeches I have ever heard in this Parliament. I would just like to take one or two points from that speech so that those honourable members opposite who are interested will know what they will be supporting when they support the amendment which the Leader of the Opposition has moved. The Leader of the Opposition can never be said to be other than a versatile man. In fact, on one page of Hansard he is reported as saying, in reply to an interjection about the difficulties of home owners: 
Yes. They find that when they can borrow money - . there is a shortage of money because the Government has created a liquidity crisis- 
He went on to mention the cost of land. A liquidity crisis means a shortage of money in the economy. I ask honourable members opposite to take note of what he said, as reported at the bottom of the next column of Hansard. One of the major economic measure that the Leader of the Opposition states his Government would undertake is set out in these words: 
We would reduce the growth in the monetary supply. 
On the same page of Hansard he criticises this Government because of a liquidity shortage in the economy and he also proposes as a policy of his own Party further reductions in liquidity. One notes that he does not mention the $ 1,700m that was pumped into the economy in the last 6 months of 1972; nor does he make any basic economic assessment of the long term effects of that injection of funds on the Australian economy. 
I would like to move on to a more central theme in what the honourable gentleman said last night and has been saying over a period of time. He makes a number of points. One of the major points which he makes and which his colleagues make fairly regularly is that in government his Party would reduce the level of government expenditure. It is a nice phrase. He indicated that he would reduce income tax collections by S600m. That is a nice round figure.  His  speech makes it quite clear that he believes that the defence vote should be increased by one per cent of the gross national product. He says that it is equivalent to approximately 2.5 per cent but it should be 3.5 per cent, which represents an increase in expenditure amounting to $400m or slightly more. So, in one fell swoop he would reduce the money available to the Commonwealth by Si ,000m. It is not much money if you say it quickly and you do not have to find it. 
He has said that he will reduce the size of the Public Service. But his own  Deputy,  whose staff like that of the Leader of the Opposition has doubled as compared with the staffs of the previous Leader of the Opposition and his  Deputy,  has publicly complained that he has not sufficient staff and has criticised the Government for refusing to increase his personal staff further. The Leader of the Opposition claims that the size of the Public Serivice should be reduced. He claims that we should reduce interest rates. He does not say who will meet the cost of reducing interest rates. If inflation is running at 13 per cent a year, as he claims, the value of money- 
Taking the honourable member's figure of 20 per cent and the current interest rate on borrowed money of 10 per cent, a person who puts his money into a savings bank receives  4i  per cent to  5i  per cent interest on his savings; so the Opposition is proposing that that amount of interest should be reduced so that the person who puts his money into a savings account will subsidise the interest rates applying to borrowers who may well be in a better position to meet the loss than the person whose savings are being sapped. The Opposition is suggesting that the person who saves his money should subsidise borrowers by accepting an interest rate which is lower than the rate of depreciation of the money that he has saved. In other words, the Opposition is saying that those people who are thrifty enough to save - I am talking not about the big investors but about the small savers who get the lowest interest rates in the community and who are usually the ones who subsidise government actions because it is government banks which are used - should subsidise borrowers; or does the Opposition intend to take that money out of tax revenue and subsidise interest rates in some way whilst at the same time cutting government expenditure? 
The honourable member's Government raised them from 3) per cent to  H  per cent during its period of office. 
That represents a 100 per cent increase. The Leader of the Opposition says that the amount of money in the economy should be reduced, but he would put more money into the economy by reducing income tax and reducing interest rates. He is aware, as we all are, that there is a shortage of goods and a shortage of labour. But he would reduce interest rates in order to increase demand. That is the classical economic theory on which the Leader of the Opposition worked when he was Treasurer, and I assume it is the theory he would accept now if he were the Treasurer. But the fact is that he is just talking. He has no sincerity whatsoever. How can any person respect a party which comes before the Parliament and proposes massive cuts in government revenue and massive increases in government expenditure? I did not mention the fact that Opposition members have repeatedly been demanding that we increase pensions substantially. They support the proposition put by the Australian Democratic Labor Party in the Senate in relation to health insurance funds at a cost of $ 1,400m in one year. They propose all of these things and they propose them repeatedly to what they believe to be a gullible public, whilst at the same time they are demanding cuts in government expenditure. I would like to see one member of the Opposition stand up on his feet and make substantial proposals - I do not mean ones involving only $50m or $60m - for cutting government expenditure whilst also denying- 
The honourable member is talking about an expenditure of less than $lm in a year. I think that the honourable member would spend more money travelling around his electorate than all the Ministers spend in overseas trips in one year. I do not deny him that right for one minute; I think it is part of his rights as a member of Parliament. But the honourable member should not be so childish. We are talking about money in the national sense. We are talking about a gross national product of $30 billion and not 2 or 3 thousand dollars here and 2 or 3 thousand dollars there. I said substantial amounts of cuts. I have yet to see Oppositions knock back overseas trips which are offered to them by governments, and that includes all Oppositions, past and present. The facts of the matter are that honourable gentlemen opposite are voic ing words. Every proposal that has come before this Parliament which would cut government expenditure has been opposed by the Opposition. 
Before the suspension of the sitting the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  by innuendo endeavoured to suggest that the Government intended to drop its proposals to abolish the means test. I would point out to the House that in the Speech which we are debating, which is a record of the policy announcements of the Government for this session of Parliament, the following words appear: 'The program for ending the means test will continue'. That program was announced in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  The program is that the means test will be abolished within 3 years. There can be nothing more definite or positive than that statement. Any speculation of the nature which we heard earlier is merely designed to try to mislead people and is mischievous. 
I want to raise one other matter, and I shall do so briefly because I have raised it in this Parliament on many occasions and I will continue to do so while the situation exists. One of the programs of the Government which this Parliament considers almost every day at question time and which is now the subject of major debate is whether or not the Australian electoral systems are in fact designed to ensure that the people elect governments rather than governments elect governments. It has been said outside this place by the Leader of the Opposition that the proposal to hold a referendum on this matter - this referendum is most likely to be held at the time of the Senate election - is designed to create a giant gerrymander in Australia and proposes undemocratic processes of elections. The proposed referendum which must be carried by the people to become law would force all governments to legislate in order that their parliaments would be elected by electorates in substantially equal population. It has been said that this would be a disadvantage to the very large electorates. The largest electorate in size in Australia is Kalgoorlie. This electorate has the third largest population of any electorate in Australia. The honourable members for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  are the only 2 members in this place whose electorates are larger in population than the electorate of Kalgoorlie. 
The point I want to make and stress to the Parliament is that there is no evidence in the history of State politics in Australia that governments of any political colour can be trusted to maintain reasonable standards of honesty - I suppose that is the only word which really describes what I want to say - in the administration of their electoral Acts. Over the years we have had restricted franchises. In South Australia at the moment - and this system is about to be abolished - there is an upper House in which the party that has 56 per cent of the votes in the lower House can get only 4 to 6 seats. This is the greatest number of members that this party has ever had in an upper House of 20 members in that State. Yet this party has received an average of 53 per cent of the vote. 
The situation in Queensland is very honest when compared to what is happening in the South Australian upper House. In Tasmania ticket carrying members of the Liberal Party stand as independents for the upper House in that State. I think that the Labor Party in that State which at almost every election receives better than 50 per cent of the vote is able to elect 2 out of 19 Legislative Councillors. In Victoria the situation is nearly the same. The Liberal Party with about 40 per cent of the vote is able to elect an absolute majority of Legislative Councillors to the upper House in that State. The combined parties in opposition - and there the Country Party is just a little more enlightened than it is in this Parliament because in Victoria it is sometimes seen to be in opposition - which receive something approaching 60 per cent of the total vote are able to elect about one-third of the members of the upper House. In New South Wales the electors do not have to bother. The Parliament does not consult them at all but goes ahead to elect its own upper House. 
I made the point, and I would have hoped that the honourable member would have heard it, that I do not believe that any parties in State politics have shown by their records that they can be trusted. I want to repeat what I said so that the honourable gentleman can hear it. I believe that there should be some standards which all parliaments in Australia should be required to meet as regards the election of representatives to govern. At the moment it is quite possible for a State government to carry a law which would have the effect of wiping out Parliament altogether and which could set up an executive govern ment in perpetuity. While the people would not let a government legislate in such a way, there is no protection whatsoever to ensure that a government does not do this. 
One other thing which I think should be said is that the day of self-appointed parliaments is long gone. The methods by which members of parliaments are elected, whether they be State or Federal, should be binding on the parliaments and not alterable by the parliament to which the members are elected. These methods should be alterable only by the people of the nation. This is what the proposal being put forward in the referendum would do. I hope that this proposal can become law in Australia. If it does we will forever end the cry that undemocratic elections have taken place and governments which have no right to govern are in office. At the present time there are only 3 State governments which have been elected by more than 50 per cent of the people. Of those 3 governments none has more than one-third of the membership of the upper Houses of those States. This situation has come about because of the way in which members of the upper Houses are elected. In Western Australia the differential between the largest and the smallest seat in the upper House is 15 to one - a range of 85,000 votes down to 5,000, and that is a greater differential than any democratic system can stand. 
I have already mentioned the situation that exists in regard to the South Australian upper House. Fortunately the pressures of public opinion have forced a change in that State and a democratic system will replace the present archaic and undemocratic upper House in that State. I hope that this change will take place at the next election. I have also mentioned the position of the upper House in Tasmania. It may be that a system of one vote one value or electorates of equal population is not as ideal as one could devise. There are very few ways in which one can devise an ideal constitutional system. But the system proposed by the referendum is certainly better than the systems which are open to the constant wrangling about gerrymanders. An example of this is the situation in New South Wales where the Government redistributed the seats so late in an election campaign that the Electoral Office was not able to send a member of this Parliament ballot papers for the electorate in which he was enrolled. We all heard about the efforts of the honourable member for 
Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  to get a postal vote. The honourable member told us that his ballot paper was delivered to him the day after the election. The names which appeared on the ballot paper were for an electorate other than the electorate for which he was enrolled. The name and address of the returning officer to whom he was to send it were for a third electorate. He was to send it to a returning officer for an electorate for which the persons listed on the ballot paper were not candidates and he was to sign it as an elector of 2 electorates for which he was not enrolled. The excuse given by the electoral office was that the redistribution was so late that its officers did not have time to check the roll thoroughly. Most likely that is as near to the truth as one could get. In New South Wales while the Liberal and Country Parties have been in office there has been a redistribution before every election - three in 7 years. 
Is the Minister for the Capital Territory aware of the extremely high cost to school groups visiting Canberra of the hiring of transport in Canberra and that charges of up to $100 a day for the hire of buses are made to school groups on visits to Canberra? In view of the educational importance of children visiting Canberra, will he consider providing school groups visiting Canberra with transport from the Commonwealth fleet for up to 2 days so that they may visit this area without extreme cost? Will he also consult his colleagues, the Minister for Education and the Minister for Transport, in an endeavour to rationalise the cost of fares for school groups coming to Canberra, especially those from distant States from which the fares are prohibitive for a short visit by a school group, so that the national capital will become accessible to Australian school children? 
Order! I suggest that the honourable member refer to honourable members by their proper titles. 
Order! That is not a point of order. The honourable gentleman will resume his seat. 
Since the introduction on 1 December 1973 of the reforms in the acquisition of citizenship and a public campaign inviting settlers to become members of the national family by seeking Australian citizenship, applications are running at more than 20 per cent above the previous level. In the 3 months to February 1974 applications totalled 14,823. Persons who entered Australia or remained illegally and who have been in Australia for 3 years or more have been given the opportunity to come forward and regularise their status. On Australia Day 1974 I announced this measure aimed at giving special dispensation to people in this group who might be suffering from exploitation. So far 163 people have responded. Since the change of government and the implementation of improved selection and counselling procedures the number of settlers leaving Australia was first checked and is now declining. In the 4 months to October 1973 a total of 9,783 departed compared with 11,046 for the same period in 1972. Emergency interpreter services were inaugurated hi Melbourne and Sydney on 19 February 1973. 
As the representative of perhaps the most important food and fibre producing province of the nation I feel that it is important that I deal with some of the urgent matters confronting the countryside. It was said by some of my friends opposite that for the first 3 years of my service in the national Parliament I came in every day and cried - the term they used, I think, was caterwauled' - about the plight of the countryside. They were quite right. Indeed, the reason why I resigned a safe seat in the New South Wales Parliament to come to the uncertain seas of Canberra was associated with the rural depression which I said was unnecessary and could be ended in 3 months - and lo and behold that has happened, of course. As a matter of fact the rural recession lasted 7 years. I lived in' a great community which saw incredible hardships. In some towns credit was ended; in one town every store, office and business gave notice: 'No more credit'. In my own town, and in many others, the level of business activity was the lowest in a generation. 
I had a good measure of what had happened in a generation of business because my late father-in-law started the first business in a community which now has 40,000 people. So we had a few records to go by. But the reason for the business slump was not hard to find. There was unemployment yet farms were going without men they needed and farm produce was being given away. Let me look back to the last years of the old Administration. Wheat growers were rationed in the middle of a season; they were told that Australia was over-produced and that they must cut back. They were forced on to the black market, and 14,000 wheat growers were forced off the land. A former Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon  - the right honourable gentleman - applauded the removal of people from the land and said that more should go. 
In the wool industry there was a very interesting situation: Wool was selling at 29c per lb in some areas of my electorate. The right honourable member for Richmond  (Mr Anthony)  was telling us to burn the locks and bellies, to use wool to fill holes in the roads and to throw wool that was not needed into the creek to keep up the price. He was  Deputy  Prime Minister at the time. He said that we should have the same system for controlling the production of wool as he had introduced for wheat. I know all the excuses about the industry asking for wheat quotas; some of my own colleagues have fallen for them. But I accept the word of the right honourable member for Richmond who said at Griffith during the 1972 election campaign - he said it honestly, and I give him credit for it: 'We had to get the industry to accept quotas'. He succeeded, and the result was rationing in the middle of a season, bankruptcies and hardship. But in the wool industry it was worse. He had wool growers reduced to shooting rabbits for Christmas; he had wool growers walking . off their properties. One sturdy Queenslander whom I know, a former wool grower, is running a tobacco kiosk at Kings Cross - seeing his old friends from the Opposition there regularly, I have no doubt. In national terms the sheep numbers were reduced by millions. 
Rural credit which I was pledged to see available was non-existent. As a matter of fact, the Rural Reconstruction Board of New South Wales was itself bankrupt that year; it was without money for months on end and could not help anyone. Of course, the Federal Government of the time said: 'We must be concerned about that'. But it did nothing. I made a strong plea for rural credit and pointed out at the time that $500m could be made available at 3 per cent and would cost the Treasurer only $15m a year. I used that as an example of what could be done. How far have we gone along that road? At the last time of checking there was $3 50m available at interest rates ranging from 4 per cent. That is not all the way that we would like to go, but certainly we can provide credit and a great range of facilities is available. All we have as a hangover from the past is the tribal rock musical group in the corner. There is now more rural credit available than there are takers. In the last 10 years we had trouble under the old Administration. Honourable members will remember the old Administration. In the last 10 years - between census takings, which is a 10-year period - we lost 100,000 people from the countryside. That was the product of very wise government! There was more rural poverty than city poverty. Large numbers of primary producers earned less than the basic wage. Men who worked on farms 7 days a week for most of the year turned up in my office with patches on their pants while others bludged - and I shall not mention anyone. 
What has changed? Have I been wasting my time in Canberra? Should I have stayed in Sydney? Let the facts speak for themselves. In the new era of government I have not had one farm bankruptcy and I have not lost one farmer. I have seen unemployment reduced. In my own area I see projects worth $30m now being planned. I have seen the business index in my town rise by 100 per cent. Why has this happened? Why is it that Riverina, as an example, is now on the high road to progress and prosperity again? Why have I stopped caterwauling in the Parliament? Let us look at the figures. Exports of food and fibre have jumped by $700m, and the full value is coming to the countryside. We have encouraged wheat output to double. It was 6.6 million tons under the old Government. We virtually abolished restrictions and set the highest ever national quota, and production has jumped to 11.6 million tons. But it is no use producing wheat unless you will be paid for it. It is no use producing wheat if you receive a miserable first payment. It is no use producing wheat if the final payment takes years to come through, because your bank commitments catch up with you. So we increased the first payment. In fact, under this new program, this new agreement which we have reached with the industry, the first payment will mean that $705m will pour into the countryside. 
Not only that, but we have sought stabilisation in writing contracts in the long term for an additional 4 million tons of wheat, so far. The whole thrust of our policy for primary industry has been to establish long term stability and to give assured returns to the producer who is forced to gamble on the seasons and the international markets. What have we been able to achieve in new markets and in long term stability? The figures provided by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who was in the chamber a moment ago, indicate the achievements in that direction. But what does it mean in total? The whole new thrust in trade adds up to rural incomes, as estimated to June of this year, totalling $6,200m. This is the highest figure in the history of Australia. This is the reason why I have new projects worth $3 Om being planned in Riverina. 
I think that a fair question to ask is: Where has the Government gone wrong? It has gone wrong, I freely admit, in the impression that it has made. Firstly, we have not done enough to reassure the farmer, after 7 lean years under the old Administration, that the current fat years will not be followed by another 7 lean years. The farmer is worried about building his equity. He is concerned, above all, for the future. He knows the bad past and he is aware of the better present; but he is doubtful about the future. Opposition voices tell him that he is to be discarded. Opposition voices say that the farmer is about to be cast into outer darkness by an anti-rural government. The farmer is told: 'You have never had it so bad and, if your bank manager does not agree, remember that your friendly Opposition agent told you so'. 
But how could it happen that there is this worry? Because the Government faced with taking $600m worth of protection away from the city based industries, decided to show some even handedness, it took $46. 8m away from farmers in various minor, though highly personal, concessions. But let us be clear about it. The total value of the rural concessions which have been removed on a personal basis has been $46. 8m. Rural incomes have risen to $6,200m. But the aggression has been created. The seeds of doubt have been sown. The superphosphate bounty, involving $58m, has been the biggest single item that we have considered. I believe that the industry should of course have this matter placed before the Industries Assistance 
Commission. A former Prime Minister,  Mr John  Curtin, initiated the bounty. I hope that honourable members have not forgotten him Later the Minister in charge of primary industry,  Mr John  McEwen, removed the bounty. A then Minister,  Mr Douglas  Anthony, supported the removal of the bounty. Prime Minister Whitlam supports the removal of the bounty at the present time. All of these points of view to me are interesting history and are matters of current interest to some honourable members. I cannot quite hear them clearly, but I am sure that they are there somewhere. 
Having said that, I would like to place on record some of the points that were made by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  the other day. They bear repeating. He said that there were no sales of wheat to China last year. But so far this year we have sold $17m worth of wheat to China. There were no sales of sugar to China last year but so far mis year we have sold $6m worth of sugar to China. Last year we sold $6.9m worth of wool to China, this year we sold nearly $20m worth of wool to China. The value of wool exported to Czechoslovakia has increased from $5.3m to $12.7m. The value of those exports has nearly doubled. The value of wool exported to France has increased from $53m to $83m. The value of wool exported to Italy has increased from $45m to $75m, representing approximately a two-thirds increase. The value of meat exported to Japan has increased from $78m to $189m in less than a year. The value of wool exported to that country has increased from $22 lm to $50 lm in less than a year. These are record achievements and they speak well of the producers and a countryside that is now recovering from 7 lean years. I want to put on record in the Parliament that as far as I and the Government are concerned  -  I have said this before - the basic stability of the nation is associated with the food and fibre industries of our nation. I want to pledge that now and in the future there will be a continuation of the policies to bring about the long term stabilities that we have never had. Of course, it is all right to talk about what has been done. But when we look back less than 2 years ago the situation of the countryside was a disgrace to the then Government. And I hope that that will never occur again, and I say that under our administration it will never be thus again. 
Debate interrupted. 

Order! The right honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="088131197403211_30_0.jpg"></graphic>

This raises, in turn, a number of possibilities, and I can raise them as no more than possibilities at this stage. First is the possibility that 26.2 per cent - let alone 25 per cent - is insufficient for supplementary allowance pensioners. That is more than a possibility; that one is almost certain. Secondly, that we should be seeking to advance the supplementary pension more quickly than what is generally referred to as the base rate pension. Thirdly, that the very strict and limited test for the supplementary allowance should be somewhat relaxed as it has remained on its present basis for a very long period during which money values have declined very markedly, and on its present basis it is starting to lose its reality. Finally, the question is raised as to how long it will be before the public comes to begrudge increases as large as those proposed in this Bill, if they continue to be granted on a purely across-the-board basis. This is always a possibility when the means test is abolished, as it will be next year. These very large increases in pensions will then go to people who obviously and demonstrably already have very high incomes. But even now we need to realise that the full base rate pension, including the full current increase, will go to some pensioners who are relatively better placed than very many non-pensioners. 
I give only one example of this because time is so short. Under the present legislation a married couple will be entitled to receive, between them, the full new rate of $44.50 a week while they already have between them an income of $34.50 a week, making a total of $79 a week. At the moment there is before the court an application for an increase in minimum wages which, even if it is successful in full, will not produce a minimum wage of $79 a week, yet that conceptually is to provide not only for a married couple but for 2 children as well. I believe we have to recognise that we cannot go along for too great a period unthinking of the feelings of people who are earning less than amounts like $79 a week but who are being called on, through their taxation contributions, to meet these acrosstheboard pension payments. I regret that time today is so short, because it is really unfair to be put in the position of trying to state a quite difficult case in an abbreviated and rushed form. These are not in any sense con clusions at which I have arrived on the basis of recent developments, but they are questions which have raised themselves in my mind and to which I think we will have carefully to apply ourselves before very long. 
I call the  Clerk. 
Order! I would like to see the terms of the motion before the honourable member for Mackellar commences to speak to it. 

Order! It being past  10.30  p.m., and in accordance with the order of the House of  7  March, I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 12.56 to 2.30 p.m. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is he aware of any changed circumstances since 23 March which could have rendered  Mr Gair  ineligible to hold a seat in the Senate? If not, would that mean that if he were declared eligible to hold a seat in the Senate after 23 March he could be Ambassador to Ireland and a senator at the same time? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 

<graphic href="088131197404040_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

These are only the projects commencing in 1973-74. I have already written to the State Ministers for Transport requesting that they submit the program of projects proposed for commencement in 1974-75. There is no doubt that our commitments will increase rapidly in ensuing years. Indeed before the end of this program in 1977-78 we may have new rapid transit systems under construction in one or more of our cities. Before any project is approved by the Australian Government we need to be assured that all aspects of the proposal have been considered. All major projects are subjected to economic analysis by the Bureau of Transport Economics. The BTE evaluations of projects include such factors as construction costs, operating costs, maintenance savings and benefits accruing through reduced travel time. Social and environmental factors will also be given full consideration in selecting projects the Australian Government will support. Such factors as air pollution, noise reduction, social dislocation, employment opportunities and the generation of waste materials will all be considered in deciding whether particular projects should be approved. Similarly, we will ensure that approved projects are compatible with longer range plans for urban and regional development. During my overseas trip in June last year I made a point of looking at urban transport systems in Europe, Canada, the United States and Japan. Having seen the efficiency of the more conventional services in Paris, Munich, Montreal and Philadelphia and having examined the operation of and ridden on the highly sophisticated Bay area rapid transit - BART - system in San Francisco I am convinced that the commuting public has been most shabbily treated in the past. With the injection of finance into public transport through this Agreement we will be able to rectify this wrong which was, to a large extent, perpetrated by the honourable gentlemen now occupying the Opposition benches. At the same time as we are upgrading present systems to an acceptable standard, we will be examining some of the more advanced technologies which are at present on the threshold of operational practicability. I am attracted to such transport forms as rapid and personal transit systems and to dial-a-bus or moving walkways. We will keep abreast of overseas developments to ensure that our urban transport systems once upgraded remain equal to the best in the world. 
Our initiatives in the field of urban public transport are not restricted to the scope of this Bill. The Urban Public Transport (Research and Planning) Bill which is on the notice paper is complementary to the States Grants Bill and will cover the matter of financial assistance for the essential planning to enable the proper formulation of the assistance program. When the scheme to improve urban public transport was first announced in February 1973 a commitment was made to consider assistance for central city undergrounds and provincial centres. Whilst city undergrounds must be regarded as an integral part of the improvement of existing public transport systems, support could not be committed to these projects at that stage. I believe that it is essential that the Australian Government should not commit itself to providing assistance for these projects without proper investigations. These evaluations are even more necessary when the magnitude of the expenditure involved is considered. They must be undertaken if the Australian Government is to make effective use of the available resources. A similar position exists with provincial centres. The 3 centres involved with populations over 100,000  -  Newcastle and Wollongong in N.S.W. and Geelong - are becoming more and more integrated with Sydney and Melbourne respectively. I consider that we could no more ignore these centres than, say, ignore the public transport needs of the western areas of Sydney and Melbourne. But again any commitment must be preceded by comprehensive investigations. 
I have previously referred to overseas experience and the significant technological developments that have occurred. One means by which it is proposed that these developments be introduced to the Australian people as soon as possible will be the development of an Australian urban passenger train. The new rolling stock to be acquired for Sydney and Melbourne will be a significant improvement on the aged vehicles being replaced. It is for this reason that the Australian Government has agreed to support their acquisition during 1973-74. They do not, however, appear to represent the best which modern technology has to offer. An example of the factors which give rise to concern about the current designs is the question of acceleration rates, which have such an important influence on the schedule speeds of trains making frequent stops. Let us compare the acceleration rates of the new Sydney and Melbourne trains with the latest trains from overseas. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing these acceleration rates. 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  has given the exact reason why the allocation of time is important. He said - I hope that some people opposite might be interested to know - that a double dissolution on this issue was threatened last year and should be held. Unless the Health Insurance Bill is again not passed through the Senate the conditions for the conduct of a double dissolution on this Bill do not apply. That would suit the Opposition very well because it could then have an election without taking the risk of this Bill having become subject to the deadlock provisions in the Parliament. The proposal which is now before the House is to pass these 2 Bills through this House and present them to the Senate, so that there can be no doubt about the matter if the Senate decides that it wishes to take the most unparliamentary action that has ever been perpetrated in this Parliament. If it does, it may as well appoint a Prime Minister from the Senate, because it would transfer the financial powers of this House to the Senate. More important, the Opposition is afraid to let its own leader make its policy speech because it thinks he is such a fool that the Australian electorate would not support him, and it has to put up somebody else to prop him up. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order! The time allotted for the Committee stages of the Bills has expired. The question is: 'That the Bills be agreed to'. Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. I think the ayes have it. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I thought that would have been obvious. Yes, he is. 
You mention some amendments concerned with machinery provisions for access to records, etc. The Minister has indicated he is happy to consider amendments to these sections or accept amendments to them in the Senate. 
That is a highly qualified statement. If an amendment was acceptable to me and to the Government of which I am a member - only one member in that Government where we have democratic decision making processes - of course I would accept it. But there had to be negotiation. There had to be convergence to a mutually acceptable point. That of course was never achieved. But  Dr Deeble,  in optimism and in enthusiasm, put that point in the letter in a way which allows narrow, shallow minds in all their nastiness to misrepresent his position and to embarrass him greatly. He is not a rough-necked politician who understands the way in which politicians will exploit a situation, such as is happening today. I point out the date of the letter, 20 March 1974. 
It seems that the honourable member for Hotham is trying to mount some sort of case - of what worth I cannot judge given the rather dramatic and crucial stage of Parliament at the moment - about my integrity and veracity. That letter sent in reply by  Dr Deeble,  I pointed out, was dated 20 March. If the honourable member for Hotham cares to look at the Health Insurance Bill 1973 which I brought into this House last Thursday night he will note the Printer's date is 19 March, 1974. It is correct to say that I was continually sceptical about the sort of receptivity we would get from outside interests because they know that they have the Senate Opposition majority imprisoned. They knew they could manipulate them. They knew that they could stand in the way of worthwhile social reform, a major issue on which we were elected and for which we have a mandate. There will be no doubting my position. I have consistently argued that we do not want to be a lame duck government. We do not want to operate as though we are gelded. I would sooner create a situation to fight a double dissolution with honour than to have major issues of legislation rebuffed. That is why the health insurance legislation was prepared before 19 March, which is the date the Bill was printed. The decision was made well beforehand and that is why my speech was prepared well beforehand. There is nothing ulterior involved in this except the nasty mind of the honourable member for Hotham trying to create a story out of nothing. 
I shall quickly dispatch some other questions. Did we offer air fares to these people? No. They sought air fares, I am advised, and they were advised that that was not acceptable and it certainly is not acceptable to me. Did we offer a bribe that the fourth table on hospital insurance was being held in abeyance in the expectation that they would be pressured into acceptance of these proposals? Not at all. I have continually restrained myself in accepting the fourth table on hospital insurance because we are already paying $50m a year on special account to subsidise private health insurance companies. Private health insurance is a myth. It could not operate without special account which subsidises the longer term cases. The worst feature is that certain big funds in Australia have a proportion of the total demand on special account which is way out of balance with the proportion of total membership of hospital funds in Australia. Did I agree to meet these people? I indicated that if there were any possibility of reaching mutually acceptable ground on which we could communicate, of course I would talk to them. I have consistently said that. But there was no chance of that ever happening. 
I said that I would detail the Liberal Party health insurance program. With the 5 minutes of my time left I obviously cannot. I seek leave to table a document headed: 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr HAYDEN (Oxley- Minister for Social Security) - I would like to make a personal explanation. 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
I think the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  will be very disillusioned if he believes that money can be passed through the States without strings being attached. The complaints I receive about moneys which are passed through the States to various bodies is that the States take so long to pass the money on that the bodies which are to receive it almost forget that they are to get it by the time the States have dealt with it. 
One other matter I mention in passing is that during recent weeks we have heard much about people taking up positions which are not altogether honest. We have heard members of the Opposition, both in this Parliament and outside it, consistently oppose the abolition of the superphosphate bounty. I am sure that the Liberal members of this House will be interested to know that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has said publicly today that if the Opposition becomes the Government it will not restore the superphosphate bounty but will-merely refer it to the Industries Assistance Commission. It will be interesting to see whether that statement will be changed tomorrow when the Country Party directs the Liberal Party on what its policies on rural industries must be. 
In any government formed from the other side of the House, the Liberal Party will have no say whatsoever. The Liberal Party will be told what it will do by the people who have told it that they will destroy the parliamentary system of government in Australia. That is what honourable members opposite are in the process of doing, and a number of them realise it. But honourable members opposite, with one exception, do not have the courage to say so. I am rather intrigued at how a group of supposedly responsible members of Parliament can sit down and believe, or convince themselves, that once the weapon of refusing Supply in the Senate is used it will not be used again. 
The Senate is made up of persons who are not generally answerable to the people. Of the 60 senators, 48 are party appointees under the system under which they are elected. The people could not defeat them even if they wanted to. There are 12 elected members in the Senate, and most of those senators are, in fact, elected because of the general voting trends in the States they represent. Very rarely do State representations alter greatly. In a House where half of the present members were elected on a policy of sending conscripts to Vietnam - one wonders how irrelevant to contemporary politics such a situation could be - people are prepared to assume responsibility for the financial authority of the country. 
Do honourable members opposite really believe - are they really that naive? - that once Supply has been rejected in the Senate it will never happen again? God forbid that the Australian people - if the Opposition parties become the government - should have such irresponsible people inflicted on them as their government. If an Opposition majority exists in the Senate and an unpopular measure has to be taken - honourable members opposite should not kid themselves; if they become the Government they will have to take unpopular measures, as any government does - do they honestly believe that immediately that happens the Senate will not throw out the government and it will not have to go to the people itself? The Senate has all care but no responsibility. The House of Representatives can be sent to the people every 6 months by the Senate, without the Senate itself ever having to answer to the people, except once every 3 years in the splendid by-election type isolation which normally surrounds Senate elections. 
The honourable member for Petrie is an opportunist. He does not care about parliamentary democracy. He does not even care about the law which he professes to practise. 
I am sure you do! But, if the honourable member for Petrie can see an opportunity to make a buck or to achieve a quick rise to power, he will throw the whole tradition of that law out of the window. That is what the honourable member for Petrie is doing now. He is not fit to call himself a man of letters. The point I make, and the point I continue to make, is that governments are answerable to parliaments. A government which cannot command a majority in this place must go to the people. In the current situation a government is being inflicted with the rejection of Supply by a House which is not answerable to the people - a House in which governments cannot be formed - by opportunists trying to seize a political moment to get themselves out of the morass of squabbling, fighting and brawling. The leader of one Opposition party is already negotiating with another member of the party from which the Prime Minister would supposedly come to replace the present leader of that party if the 
Opposition is defeated in an election. Honourable members opposite should not kid themselves. The Leader of the Opposition has blood running out of his heels from one of the front bench members snapping at them. 
The point I make, and the point I would hope the honourable gentlemen opposite would have enough common sense to think of, is that if they proceed with this action that they propose to precipitate they will change the way of Australian politics to the way of Italy, France and other countries where there has been 20 to 30 governments in 20 years. 
The honourable member for Griffith is just an opportunist. Unfortunately, his opportunities are limited only to election day. If the Opposition destroys the balance of the Westminster system of government - in the House of Commons 3 weeks is the maximum period for which the House of Lords can delay a money Bill - it is destroyed not for today, tomorrow, this year or next year, but forever. It is not destroyed only for the Labor Party; it is destroyed for the Labor Party and the Liberal Party but, more importantly, it is destroyed for the Australian people. Real government, democratic government and stable government in Australia cannot exist under circumstances where persons not responsible and not required to go to the electorate are able to dismiss a government at any time. Every 6 months Supply legislation comes before this Parliament. Honourable members opposite should mark my words: Once the Opposition has started rejecting Supply on what is a very cheap and shoddy pretext, it will always find that other political parties will be able to find similar excuses. The responsibility is on the heads of honourable members opposite. They are the people who will accept the blame forever for the destruction of the parliamentary system of government in Australia. 
It is. 
Order! No point of order arises. 
In a moment of utter desperation the Government has overlooked the question of the quality of life. One of the pressing requests of those 50,000 residents of Brisbane who live under the flight paths of aircraft using Brisbane Airport is that its runways be relocated. The Coombs Task Force was a committee set up by this Government which is on its way out. The report of that body on page 149 states - and I know this off by heart now - that in the year 1973-74 $lm was to be set aside for work at Brisbane Airport, in 1974-75 the sum was to be $13m, and in 1975-76 expenditure was to be $18m, and thereafter $130m. Yet the Government thinks that by spending $3. 7m it will give Brisbane a new international terminal which the Prime Minister can use on his infrequent visits to Queensland, and the people of Queensland will be bought off. The Government has stated repeatedly that it will not re-site the runways, as planned by the previous Government. In return, the Liberal 
Party will run away with the seat of Lilley. This will help to ensure the defeat of a government which has, in 17 months, led this nation  to  the brink of disaster. 
Do not let my position be misunderstood. Let it not be thought that I am not happy that at last something - paltry as it is - will be done about the Brisbane Airport. But much more has to be done. I feel sorry for the honourable member for Lilley who, in the few months he has been in this chamber has made some effort in relation to this matter. He made an effort particularly after the honourable member for Petrie and I spoke so frequently about this matter. The honourable member for Lilley and other honourable members suddenly took an interest in the Brisbane Airport. The fact that the Government is prepared to spend only $3. 7m - in fact it is prepared to cut back planned expenditure in the electorate of the honourable member for Lilley - reveals the low regard in which it surely holds the honourable member. 
Some of the credit for the Government's decision to erect this terminal must surely be attributed to the new director of Qantas Airways Ltd, the State  President  of the Queensland Trades and Labour Council.  Mr Jack  Egerton was given one of the 'jobs for the boys'. But on joining the Qantas board, he realised, for the reasons enunciated today by the Minister for Housing and Construction, the need for a new international terminal at Brisbane. The honourable member  for  Petrie and I are lucky that our views have been reinforced by those of a man who is far above cheap, nasty politics such as we have seen in this chamber this afternoon.  Mr friend,  the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  was for years the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee. One does not often see him angry in this House, but today his voice was shaking with anger at the realisation that the Committee, of which for so many years he has been a highly respected member and past  chairman,  would be prostituted for a small political gain. This is what it is all about. I am sure the people of Brisbane will not be fooled. I have seen governments in previous years try in a desperate bid to save a seat by spending millions of dollars. The people are not easily fooled. Members opposite will meet a Waterloo in Lilley on 18 May 1974. 
The position of  Speaker  of this House as of the presiding officer in the other place, where  Senator O'Byrne  has just been elected  President,  is one of great difficulty and one which requires experience in chairmanship and in Parliament. Both these facts have been stated before by other speakers.  Mr Cope  has been a member of this Parliament since 1954. He is a very experienced  chairman  within this Parliament. During the past 18 months he has occupied the chair during a very difficult period in the life of this Parliament. Many of these difficulties have been created by the fact that certain members of the Opposition have found it very difficult to live with Standing Orders which they imposed on this House in order to give Ministers certain privileges in the House. It has now become apparent to them that life in Opposition is not the same as it was in Government. The Standing Orders have not been altered by this Government. The persons who framed Standing Orders to give privileges to Ministers have found that the frustrations of Opposition, which they did not expect to experience, are not in the best interests of the Parliament. The  Speaker  has presided in this Parliament during periods or organised and deliberate obstruction. The fact that so few honourable members were suspended from the service of this House is a tribute to the Speaker's tolerance. 
Honourable members opposite have made much of the fact that some honourable members on this side of the House also sought the nomination for the position of Speaker and contested a ballot. One of the things that we on this side of the House are entitled to do is to choose the people who will represent us in the Ministry and the people who will stand for those offices in the Parliament for which they are elected by the members of the Parliament. No honourable member opposite has said whether a ballot was conducted to decide who would be the Opposition's nominee for Speaker or whether he is the nominee of the Leader of the Opposition, who holds a dictatorial position in nominating all those honourable members who will hold office within his Party. 
With the exception of the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Senate, every member of the Australian Labor Party who stood for office was opposed for the office for which he was a candidate. Members are entitled to stand for election to an office. It would be surprising indeed if members forwent the opportunity to contest that position in this House. A number of honourable members did that. The fact is that when the votes were counted  Mr Cope  was the winner, and he won quite comfortably. I think that that is the important fact. When people are excluded from running for office that means that a party does not have enough confidence in its parliamentary members to allow them to choose the people who will sit on its front bench and not enough confidence in the party. To suggest that because they propose a 'unanimous' nominee of their Leader, that means that that person is the unanimous choice of their Party is, I would say, utter nonsense. 
I can see on the other side of the House honourable members of both Opposition Parties who are far more experienced than the present nominee for the Chair and who have far better qualities - known qualities, and I do not challenge the qualities of the honourable member for Angas - of chairmanship, tolerance and experience in this House than has the Opposition's nominee. Had the Opposition seriously sought this position and seriously sought to put forward a person as  Speaker  it would have chosen a person who is known to have both those, skills and not a person who has never sat in the chair of this chamber even as a  Deputy Chairman.  I support the nomination of  Mr Cope  for  Speaker.  I believe that this House will serve itself ill if it does not support that nomination. 
I thank the House for the honour it has done me in again electing me  Chairman  of Committees. I really do not think that one is elected  Chairman  of Committees to be a comedian; I think one is elected  Chairman  of Committees to conduct the affairs of the House. If some honourable members believe that other methods are better, that is their prerogative. People have different approaches to what they do and all of us are different. I shall seek, as I have in the past, to conduct the affairs of this House, when I am responsible for the conduct of the affairs of this House, in accordance with the Standing Orders which have been determined by this House and in accordance with the wishes of the majority of members expressed in this House. I thank my proposer and the seconder of the motion for the very kind words they have said about me. I hope to get an inscribed copy of the remarks of the mover of the motion so that I can pass it on to all of those people who would challenge my ability in this place. There is no way in which I can prove myself to be up to the standards which the mover set for me and there is no way in which I can express my thanks to the House better than he did in proposing my nomination. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
SUSpension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister completing his speech. 

The honourable member will resume his seat. He will not take facetious points of order. 
Paper on agricultural policy. Of course, the Green Paper has created absolute confusion among the Country Party. The Country Party is not quite sure whether to come out behind it or against it. It still does not know. Objectivity is something unknown in its approach to agricultural policy. 
We have in the Green Paper as its basic objective the aim to adjust the agricultural sector effectively to market needs, a swing away from the one preoccupation with increased' production. It is interesting to reflect on the approach that agricultural groups display to agricultural policy. I refer to the evidence of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices on 24 July 1973 as recorded in Hansard on page 365.  Mr Wilson,  from the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, said in answer to the Chairman's question: 

 Mr Chairman, we have not changed our opinion at all. In fact we are stronger in our thought that increased production is the answer to our problem. 
Increased meat production was the answer to the problem on 24 July 1973. I wonder whether  Mr Wilson  still holds that view or whether he believes we should have taken the objective approach outlined in the Green Paper, namely, that the agricultural sector needs to be assisted to adjust effectively to market needs. The Green Paper has illustrated quite explicitly and in great detail the areas in which Government intervention can be justified. We need to remove barriers to effective market systems and compensate for the harsh consequences of the free market place. We need the Government involved in alleviating or circumventing the effects of natural disasters and growers' unstable incomes. Wo need to consolidate the bargaining position of producers. We need to assist the agricultural sector in the slow adjustment to chance. This, of course, is another message that has not been registered in the minds of the members of the Country Party or the farm organisations 
I refer to the incredible laxness that exists between the point of decision and the point of action, so far as production and its effect on the market place is concerned. We have a system in this country in .which we have no action whatsoever between the production decision and the effect on the market place. This, of course, is true of most agricultural areas, but nowhere is it truer than in regard to wool. 1 will develop this particular area for one moment. At the moment the members of the Country Party and their friends in the farm organisations are developing a campaign to embarrass the Government in one very simple way. They are setting up the proposition that the Wool Corporation should, under any circumstances, support the market at 300c for 20 micron wool. I have no objection to the idea that the Wool Corporation should support the market but I do believe - this has been clearly understood by all people in the market place - that the Wool Corporation should support the market around the commercial level, and it should be called on to justify its support at that particular level. It is no secret that the members of the Wool Corporation have identified quite clearly with the political objectives of the Country Party. It is no secret that there have been discussions between the Wool Corporation and the leaders of the Country Party to devise this method of embarrassing the Government. 
This question of where the market should be supported, whether it be at 300c, which on average works out at 160c a kilo for the total clip, is a question of commercial judgment. I would fully support the commercial judgment of the Wool Corporation in regard to 300c, if in fact this is so. I would fully support the Wool Corporation in having a 300c floor in the market right now. Let us consider for the moment what the reaction would be if 300c be too high. We could argue that perhaps the price ought to be around 124c for the whole clip. If so, the effect of supporting the market at between 150c and 160c would be that the Wool Corporation would lose $50m, and it is a coincidence that that just happens to be about the same amount of money as was paid on the wool price deficiency payment program. If the Wool Corporation loses S50m, it is the members of the Corporation who have to justify the mistake; it is their commercial judgment which has been compromised, not the Government's at all. It is the members of the Wool Corporation whose commercial judgment is compromised by supporting the market at a level which flies against any sort of commercial judgment of substance. So we have a position here where if this line is pursued in order to embarrass the Government, it will be the members of the Corporation themselves who will be compromised in the final analysis. 
We also have another development in the wool industry which has been pointed out by a very good friend and colleague of mine, Ken Whiteley, Associate Professor of Wool Technology. Whiteley has identified quite clearly that the Yennora complex in Sydney lags behind the innovatory process in the wool marketing system. It has been clearly demonstrated now that more than Si 00m in economies is to be gained for the wool industry by the rapid introduction of new wool selling techniques. Yet the opposition of vested interests is slowly eroding away the progress that has been made in this area. Five per cent of the wool sold through this complex, owned and operated by the Australian Wool Corporation, has been sold under the new marketing techniques. This percentage is well down in terms of the proportion of the total wool clip. It is quite clear that these vested interests that have such an identity and such a profit to be derived from the maintenance of the status quo are slowly gaining the upper hand at the expense of the wool growers of Australia. 1 believe that this particular subject needs strong and further development. I turn now to another area of the Governor-General's Speech. 
We need to place some sort of discipline into this area - not discipline in the sense that will stifle the ideas but discipline that will channel those ideas into productive outlets; discipline that will ensure that we direct our research effort into science and technology into those areas that are of relevance to the community at large. There are far too many people - I must confess that I was one of them at one stage - who have specialised in very minute areas of science and lost a sense of reality. Fortunately, that happened when I was at Leeds University; it did not occur here in Australia. The situation is that the policy of the science and technology areas has been severely neglected in the past. We are paying the price. We have no social science research organisations, organised on a professional basis, which offer career opportunities for social scientists in Australia. We pay the price for this in all sorts of areas of our social activity. I believe that the OECD report, along with the proposed Australian Science Council, will launch us into a more profitable and efficient future, so far as science and technology in this country are concerned. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
Order! I point out to the honourable gentleman that he is not moving these amendments and they are not relevant to the Bill before the Committee. 

I call the Minister for Northern 'Development. 
 Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
After clause 2, page 1, insert the following new clause: '2a. Permanent arrangements for the stevedoring industry shall be submitted to the Parliament before 1 April 1974.'. 

Under the Standing Orders an honourable member is entitled to refer to what he wishes in this House. 

Is it the wish of the House to proceed to the third reading forthwith? 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
Did the Prime Minister note in the recent consumer price index very large increases in the index figures for clothing? In view of the substantial tariff reductions which took place some time ago, reducing the landed costs of items on which tariffs are applicable, can the Prime Minister inform the House whether there is any way in which the Australian Government can control the retail price of clothing and similar items? If not, is this power available to the States? If it is, why are they not exercising it? 
Order! There is too much audible conversation. 
A person may hold office at the one time as a Judge of the Superior Court and as a Judge of another court, or of two or more courts, created by the Parliament. 
The Governor-General may, by Proclamation, fix a date as the date on and after which the jurisdiction of the Court referred to in sub-section (1)- 
That is dealing with matrimonial clauses jurisdiction. Would the Minister please tell me the reason for the delay in this matter? Why can the Government not fix a date - for example, 1 January - and say: 'From this date henceforth all jurisdiction will be exercised by this new court'? It is a simple question. I am sure that the Minister will be only too keen to answer it. 
Sub-clause (8) of clause 20 deals with a party to proceedings under the Matrimonial Clauses Act which have been instituted under the existing provision. It says that that person 'may apply to the Superior Court'. I want to ask the Minister: What happens if the person does not apply? I am left with the impression, with my limited experience, that those involved in matrimonial engagements do not have under their pillows the Superior Court of Australia Bill 1974. 1 have the gravest of doubt that they would know that this power is available to them. That is about three or four questions. I could go on to a number of other matters but I am wondering whether the Minister in charge of the Bill would mind answering, as a special personal favour. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
THE LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL FOR THE NORTHERN TERRITORY 
Preliminary Submission (o the Australian Constitutional Convention 
Chapter VI of the Constitution probably received little detailed attention so far as the status and future of territories of the Commonwealth were concerned. The chapter is headed New States but confers legislative authority on the Commonwealth Parliament with respect to all territories whether or not they are capable of becoming new states. Over seventy years of history have shown up the inadequacy of chapter VI and the need for restatement. 
Quick and Garran in their work 'The Annotated Constitution', assumed 'as unquestionable that, whilst some of the Territories may permanently remain in a dependent condition subject to the dominion and exclusive jurisdiction of the Commonwealth, others.  when sufficiently developed, and not required or appropriated for federal purposes, will be organized into new States having the special privileges of State government with State representation in the federal Parliament.' 
Consequently it is thought that there is a need to classify territories and require a different attitude to each territory according to its classification. A tentative classification is: 
Mandated or trust territories to be administered and developed according to the mandate or trust - for example, New Guinea. 
Territories, the logical development of which, by reason of history, size, potential for development and other relevant factors, is in the direction of eventual political association with the States - for example, the Northern Territory of Australia. 
Protected areas, not likely to develop in the direction of separate political existence within the federation - for example, Norfolk Island and Cocos Island. 
The Australian Capital Territory. 
Each of these categories requires different constitutional support. The carrying out of a mandate should be guaranteed by the Constitution; thi; development of communities capable of becoming viable political entities should also bc guaranteed; the Constitution should spell out the nature and extent of the protection which a protected territory should be bound to receive and the identity of the national capital as such should be preserved. 
A change of status in the constitution of a territory should be the subject of a referendum within the territory and not, as now, entirely al the whim of the government in power at any given time. The holding of such referenda at stated intervals, on request, should be specifically commanded by the Constitution. Where political change involves the acceptance of a territory in any new sort of relationship with the States the change should also be the subject of a referendum in the States at large. 
Section 128 needs revision in the light of the fact that residents of territories are entirely excluded from voting on a referendum to change the constitution under which they are governed. 
There are no constitutional guarantees applying to the territory. The requirement of the payment of just terms (sec 51 (xxxi)) docs not apply in or to territories. The guarantees in section 92, 99, 116, 117, 118 and 119 do not apply in or to territories. Amendment of these sections is necessary to afford residents of territories the same rights as are afforded to residents of the States. 
Even allowing for other constitutional changes in respect of territories, section 81 needs reviewing if the present Northern Territory legislature is to use and control local revenue raising powers. 
A change of status in the constitution of a territory should be the subject of a referendum within the territory and not, as now, entirely at the whim of the government in power- 
I emphasise the words, 'the whim of the 
Government in power'-  at any given time. 
Knowing the anxiety of the man most concerned, the honourable member for the Northern Territory, who is the spokesman for the people of the Territory, to see the Legislative Assembly appointed with a new membership - I particularly avoid using the word 'powers' because after all we do not know what powers the Legislative Assembly will have - I would like to make it clear to the House and to the people of Australia that had there not been a danger that actions taken by us may have been interpreted as being obstructive, we would have done everything possible and, in fact, would have insisted on a referendum being held to ascertain how the people of the Territory themselves felt about this matter. There is a diversion of opinion and a diversion of attitude on this subject, but that is another story which we will get on to. 
I should like to return in somewhat greater depth to the 4 major points I have raised with respect to this legislation. The first and second relate to the creation of an Executive and whether the Executive will constitute with the Administrator the Administrator's Council. Will members appointed to the Administrator's Council, presumably by election of the Council in full meeting, constitute the Executive? In other words, will they formulate a sort of Cabinet or Ministry? 
Will the members be bound by the Council provisions that deliberations of the Administrator's Council will be in secrecy? Schedule 4 of the present Act is to remain in force and I think this is extremely disturbing. 1 hope that the Minister will explain to us whether the secrecy provisions will persist. It would be an entirely intolerable situation for an executive council, in effect, to be gagged. Can anyone imagine members of an Australian government cabinet, even a Labor Cabinet with its dictatorial and autocratic attitude towards matters involving the nation generally, taking an oath of secrecy that no comment would be made by a Minister. According to the Schedule, he would be bound to secrecy. That would be unacceptable and I imagine that the Minister with good sense will explain to us his attitude and what he proposes to do in regard to this matter. How will the members of the Legislative Council answer for the decisions of the Council which will impinge on the everyday lives of every Territorian? This is the probing question. Would we or any normal, reasonable person be forgiven for thinking that perhaps all these matters will be subject to the result of the election? 
If the Labor Party does get a majority no doubt considerable power will be given to the Assembly. If the Labor Party is defeated - I do not think there is very much doubt about the election - then of course the position probably will be entirely different. I submit that these questions need to be answered. I sincerely hope that the Minister will clarify these matters. I am sure that the people of the Territory, particularly those who are to take part in the proposed election and who will perhaps sit on the first fully elected constitutional body in the Territory, are anxiously waiting for clarification from the Minister. 
The third area of contention relates to the transfer of powers and responsibilities to the Legislative Assembly from the Commonwealth, and also consideration of revenue raising requirements consistent with the authority, whatever it might be, which is given to the Council. What is going to happen after 24 October? Will the people be faced with a situation in which there will be 19 elected councillors with no defined tasks? This Government has gone so far in one area but has neglected to give the proposed Legislative Assembly greater power than the Council now has? Is it any wonder that the people of the Territory are poised anxiously waiting to have clarification on this point which is the crux of the whole matter. What are the powers of this newly elected body going to be? In 1972 the Government of the day offered the Northern Territory some areas of responsibility subject to general acceptance in the Territory. The first was: 
Local government responsibilities and functions. 
Certain forms of community services were involved, including libraries, fire brigades, building standards, bus services and cemeteries. They are tremendous powers. The inspection of scaffolding and machinery was also included. The inspection of scaffolding and machinery is not a bad one to include because it is a buck-passing item in any case. Let us consider the second group. The Government also offered the Northern Territory control of certain forms of social legislation, including workers compensation, gambling - not that very much goes on in the Territory - liquor licensing, censorship and consumer protection. With respect to gambling and liquor licensing, as one who has been a neighbour to the Territory all my life- 
The responsibility for the Northern Territory Public Service was to be handed over. The Northern Territory Public Service has been taken over by the ALP Federal Government, completely and naturally I suppose. Other areas included the Treasury, personnel administration, police - which has been taken over by the ALP Federal Government - the printing office, prison administration, Statetype taxation such as stamp duties and succession duties, urban land - taken over by the 
ALP Federal Government - the acquisition, allocation and subdivision of land within the control of the Territory executive, urban arterial roads and urban traffic including motor vehicle registration. Included in these arrangements is the transfer of responsibility for a range of Northern Territory statutory authorities including the Housing Commission, the Tourist Board, Museums and Art Galleries Board and the Reserves Board, which has been taken over by the ALP Federal Government, but not including the Port Authority, because that might contain a few headaches which would be difficult for anyone to handle. However, I am sure that my colleague, the honourable member for the Northern Territory, will be making some reference to that. 
Incidentally, I have heard of a huge and overwhelming reaction to the vicious comments made by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  An insinuation was made against the honourable member for the Northern Territory which would be totally unacceptable to any person in the Territory. Calder of the Territory is idolised in that part of the world. I strongly suggest to the Minister for Labor and Immigration not to set foot in that area for a long time to come, because he might come back- 
Consistent with the Commonwealth-State financial arrangements the amount of Commonwealth financial assistance will depend on the Territory Executive increasing its revenue raising efforts to the level of the States. I wonder how that would be regarded by the people of the Territory. Revenue matters will be left to the Territory Executive to decide. However, if the Territory Executive elected not to match State revenue efforts its total revenue, including the Commonwealth grant, would not be sufficient to finance the same standard of service as the States enjoy. These are very complex questions. What would be the capacity of the people of the Territory, wiith a limited European population - I refer particularly to those who are subject to taxation - to meet what could be a sudden tremendous demand on their resources if such a body as the Treasury, as we understand it, was established in the Territory? Conversely, the Executive could opt to increase its revenue efforts above those of the State levels so as to secure total revenue that would permit a higher standard of service than the States provide. I wonder how that would have been accepted if a referendum had been held. The Government in 1972 also proposed to arrange for the financing by the Territory Executive of expenditure of a capital nature. This would also be similar to those pertaining between the Commonwealth and the States. 
Since the present Government took power, the Northern Territory has lost power in respect of its limited government. Often there was great cry before an election about the neglect of our Government, which was anything but neglect because of the agitations of Calder of the Territory. The only real steps in advancing the constitutional independence of the Territory were provided by our Government. What happened with the present Government? It made all the promises in the world; it did all the stage-setting in the world, but it gave precisely nothing to the Territory. In fact, as I have indicated, this Government whittled away many of the existing powers of the Territory. For instance, the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  has taken control of the Northern Territory Police Force. No reference of this decision was ever made to the Legislative Council. No wonder the Council gets disturbed and thinks of seceding. Members of the Council cross the border and talk to the Queensland Premier about that. 
I intend to paraphrase what was said by an ALP member of the Legislative Council. I hope this sinks in and allows the people of Australia to know what was said by an ALP member of the Legislative Council. He said:  the Northern Territory has a parliament without government, a government without parliament. 
I pay full regard to the capacity of that member to sum up a situation as it really exists. 
Making the Council fully elective will not convert it into a parliament unless it has the powers of responsibility. For the Legislative Assembly the raising of finance to cover its area of responsibility will be a major problem. I believe it will require substantial Commonwealth grants. Insubstantial grants will mean oppressive Territory taxation in order to ensure maintenance of essential services. Never mind about development and the branching out into a new attitude towards tourism, for instance. What will happen to the tourist industry once the effects of the removal of fuel subsidy are felt? The Labor Government will wreck this country from one end to the other. I believe that was one of the cruel and most illconsidered moves ever made. Such taxation would disinterest people in settling in the Territory and thus would be counter-productive to the Territory's development. 
Although the Northern Territory has had its own public service since 1928 it has, since the late 1940s, basically been atrophied as related to the staffs of the Legislative Council, the Police Department, the Prisons Department and the fire brigades. Greater administrative responsibilities for the Northern Territory - that is to the Council - will mean a costly escalation in the size of the Northern Territory Public Service. I submit that this expansion would initially be outside the resources of the Territory. We must keep these things in mind. There will have to be far more substantial grants of Commonwealth revenue to assist in this transition, if the transition occurs. 
I turn now to the mechanism of the election. Forgive me if I get a little disturbed that the Minister for Services and Property appointed what he proposes to call a redistribution committee. We usually look forward to the establishment of a redistribution commission. The members of that committee appear to me to be men of quite some standing and well known. Two of them are senior public servants and one is a businessman in Darwin. The question we are asking ourselves is: Why was it done in this sneaky manner? It brings to mind the comment of the Minister for Services and Property that he would break the hearts of the Country Party. He made this comment about the redistribution even before the commissioners were appointed. Could we be blamed for suspecting that pressure may be brought in some way or other to the commissioners? I hope that the quality of the commissioners will be such that they will resist any attempt to bring pressure on them. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable gentleman should debate the Bill. 
I turn now to the mixes which have already been suggested to the Joint Committee to be introduced in any further electoral distributions. These are to ensure that people in isolated areas, particularly itinerant Aborigines, will have the opportunity to vote. With such a mobile population as that of the Northern Territory obviously these are problems which will require deep consideration. The Opposition welcomes this move and supports this legislation. We support the move but draw the attention of the Minister to some of the shortcomings in the Bill which I have endeavoured to expose. The Opposition recognises the very serious problems facing the Territory. Since the Labor Government came to power with its campaign of vandalism against isolated areas the territory has suffered grievously. The suffering is a poor reflection on the power of advocacy of the Minister for the Northern Territory in Cabinet and in Caucus. We know that he is more or less a loner in these forums which are of such great national importance. 
At the moment inflation, I venture to say, is worse in the Northern Territory than in any other part of Australia. The wait for housing is the longest in Australia. Investment in development is declining because the Government's financial and taxation measures are a real threat to private enterprise and to any other aspect of social functions. The Opposition supports a program of care and concern for the prosperous and healthy development of the Territory. The philosophy of our policy is underlined by the knowledge that as the Territory develops and the need for assistance at times grows there will be need for the Commonwealth to supply finance which will ensure that the Territory will be able to capitalise on all of its opportunities. At the same time the living standards, in conjunction with this, will rise for all Territorians. We support the supply of grants designed to ensure that essential services are available to all Territory citizens without those citizens having to pay in the form of excessive taxes. 
Is the Minister for the Capital Territory aware that the 'Canberra Times', which is owned by one of Australia's major Press combines, increased its advertising rate by 25 per cent on Wednesday last? Did newspapers owned by this group carry editorials last week calling for restraint on increases in wages and prices? Was an inquiry conducted into the justification of the rises? Was the Canberra 'News' closed in the previous week because of accumulated losses? Will the Minister inquire into whether rates charged by the 'Canberra Times' were subsidised by the parent company in order to eliminate a competitor? If so, will the Minister ask the Attorney-General what can be done by the Australian. Government to prevent such action? 
I am not sure that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  understands the full content of this proposal. I support fully the reference of this matter to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. I am glad that an early start is being made on this project. The animal health laboratory will be one of the major scientific institutions in Australia. I think it has little to do with quarantine as such but has a great deal to dd with some of the major industries in the rural areas in that its purpose is to provide protection against infection or outbreaks of exotic diseases. 
No, it is not, it is preventive medicine extended a long way, I hope that the Public Works Committee in examining this proposal will be able to clear up some doubts which have been voiced by people not well informed who have suggested that this project is different from what it actually is. I am not referring to anyone in this place, but there has been some publicity suggesting that people in areas surrounding the laboratory will not be able to keep birds, cats and other pets, that animals from the laboratory will be wandering around in the vicinity, and soon. As has been stated, the laboratory will be a research institution of very high quality. I am sure that the expenditure involved will be a very small outlay for the insurance that it will give to some of our most important industries. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The question is: 
That the proposed new sub-section proposed to be omitted stand part of the proposed new section. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order! There is nothing to stop the  Speaker  being here. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these measures? There being no objection I will allow that course to be followed. 
Order! 1 suggest the Minister contain himself. 
With your indulgence,  Mr Speaker,  1 wish to make a request of you.  I  can make my request only in this way. Before the conclusion of today's sitting, will you prepare a statement on the status of the proclamation of the Governor-General relating to a joint sitting, and the position of members of this House?  I  do not ask you to do that now because I realise that it would need to be a considered statement. 
Order! I uphold the point of order. There is no point in discussing the matter further. The Minister must confine his remarks to the clause before the Committee, which is clause 3. 
We have been accused of withholding finance from the States. I will demonstrate how malicious we are. I draw the attention of the Committee to the fact that by arrangement with the States and in anticipation of getting these 3 Bills through the Parliament, the Treasurer paid $2.5m to the South Australian Government on 24 July and $1.7m to the Queensland Government on 18 July. Therefore I suggest to the honourable member for Maranoa, to whom I am giving credit for organising these telegrams, that he should take note of this information and convey it to those shire councils to which he referred and the other shire councils which have expressed their disapproval in respect of road grants and which have suggested that there is a possibility they will have to lay off labour due to a lack of finance. The honourable member can inform those councils in Queensland that the State Government has already received money. I repeat that it received $1.7m on 18 July. An amount of $4,083,000 will be paid to Western Australia today. The sum of $500,000 will be paid to Tasmania today. It is interesting to note that I have protests from Victorian shire councils stating that they will have to lay off labour because they do not have money. Let me put the facts clearly. Neither New South Wales nor Victoria has yet applied to the Treasurer for any money. They know they can apply because they have been advised by the Treasurer that money will be available to them. 
For those reasons it must be obvious to honourable members that clauses 4 and 5 of this legislation are important. They are the crux of the legislation. If we are going to put money into the States, then we have to have some say in regard to where it is to be spent and how it is to be spent - unless we return to the old system and give the States $1,1 26m over the next 3 years and have no say whatsoever in respect of where it is to be spent. That may have been the policy of the Opposition but it is not the policy of this Government. For those reasons we reject the amendments. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! I draw attention to the fact that the motion is: That the amendments be disagreed to. 
The Minister may declare a road in a State that facilitates, or a proposed road in a State, that would, if constructed, facilitate trade and commerce - 
The Opposition sought to include the words 'enter into an agreement with a State to ' after the words 'the Minister may'. My advice- this did not come from the Minister's second reading speech- is that the criteria on which a road would be declared are laid down in the clause and therefore a State is now in a position to challenge should the Minister go in, willy-nilly, declaring roads throughout Australia with no guarantees to the States. So the States are left in a much stronger position than was explained in the Minister's second reading speech. Therefore the Opposition does not oppose the amendment. 
-Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
-One of the things that was apparent from the speech by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  is the ease with which one can oppose while in Opposition and how easy it is for politicians to score political points from any increased charges. It is obvious that all politicians do not like to be a party to increased charges. I think it is also obvious that Oppositions always oppose all forms of increased charges and propose always additional forms of expenditure. 
-That may well be so. The fact of the matter is that the honourable member for Gippsland, on behalf of the Opposition, has made a very strong case against an increase in the charges. That is not a difficult case to make. I acknowledge that it is not difficult to make such a case. The Post Office is not the best example of a cost cutting enterprise and it is not the best examle of an organisation in which cost increases can e minimised. I think that the question which has been posed is whether the Government raises the revenue to meet the increased costs of the Post Office from those who use the services, as has been proposed by the Government, or from the general taxpayer. It is a little unfair to suggest that the major burden of these increases falls on business, farmers and the like. The major cost burden falls on the private user. The private telephone user is not able to claim his telephone costs as a tax deduction. A private person posting letters is not able to recoup the cost of his stamps as a business expense; he pays the total amount. I do not think anyone would seriously suggest that a differential rate of postage should be established, but it is proposed to acknowledge the situation to a limited degree by proposing a lower rate of telephone rental for private users. 
Although I think it is true to say that the cost to the Post Office of providing telephone services at most private residences, because of their low usage, would be much more expensive to the community than would be the provision of business telephones because of their higher usage, these proposals recognise the fact that private subscribers meet the total cost of their telephone and postage commitments. Most private people have very few postage commitments. I think the additional postal charges for stamps is more of a nuisance than a substantial cost against thenincomes. Some people write a lot of letters but the great majority would make very little use of postage stamps. 
I was elected to this Parliament in 1967. The 'Geelong Advertiser', which was mentioned previously, is a fully owned subsidiary of the Melbourne 'Herald', which is not noted for its support of the present Government. I know that its editor does not know the honourable member for Gippsland personally but that paper misguidedly made certain statements about his sanity. I shall not repeat them because I do not like to tell lies in Parliament. The editor said that the honourable member made a sane suggestion. I would suggest that the honourable member for Gippsland have a look at the remarks of the Melbourne 'Herald' and 'Sun' and the 'Geelong Advertiser' when the then Opposition, the present Government, rejected postal charges in the Senate in 1967. 1 think he will find that that was said to be an irresponsible act which prevented the Government from raising its revenues, even though these newspapers decried the necessity to increase postal charges. I cannot ever remember an Opposition supporting increases in charges, and I do not exclude supporters of the present Government from that. They are always opposed. 
Early in his speech the honourable member for Gippsland made play of the problems of the Redfern Mail Exchange, which is most likely the greatest single problem the Post Office has. The Exchange was not established by the present Government and I do not think that it was established in the initial stages advisedly by the previous Government, even though its advisers may have recommended it. But I do not blame the then Government for establishing the present situation. It was faced with a problem which it sought to solve in a certain way. I think that in fairness to the people who work in the Redfern Mail Exchange I should say that the number of man days lost through strikes in that mail exchange is lower than the national average. 
Where inconveniences are involved the magnitude of every day lost is always potentially greater in terms of publicity value than where inconvenience is not involved. The fact of the matter is that there are fewer man days lost in that exchange than is the national average. One of the problems the Post Office faces is a problem which the Post Office itself complains of, that is, that it has lost considerable areas of lucrative business to private enterprise. It lost it during the period of office of the former Government when courier services, red telephones and other operations were allowed to commence in areas which were obviously profitable to the Department and in which the Department had an exclusive right under the postal legislation. The philosophy of socialising losses and capitalising profits, which has always been the philosophy of honourable members opposite, worked in the Post Office as it has in the railways and every other form of industry. The Opposition has always sought to make those sections of commerce which cannot be effectively operated at a profit by private enterprise a responsibility of the taxpayer even though the taxpayer in the main obtained less benefit than do private business operations. This is true of the Post Office. The general taxpayer without business interests obtains less benefit from the operations of the Post Office- even though he obtains considerable conveniencethan does the business community. Yet the business community, because it is able to have its costs written off against taxation, pays less for the convenience than does the general taxpayer. 
No one likes increases in costs, but increases in costs take place and they continue to take place. A letter cannot be sent on a courier service which is running in direct competition with the Post Office for the same cost this year as last year or the year before. If honourable members opposite are suggesting that they enjoy some sort of purity in relation to increasing charges, I remind them again that I was elected to this Parliament after the then Opposition in the Senate, improperly in my view- I say that quite advisedly- had blocked increased postal charges, in May 1967, on exactly the same pretext as was used on this occasion, that is, that they should be included as a general budgetary item. One of the first crises- it was a period of crisis in the Labor Party at that time- that confronted Caucus when I was first a member of it was whether we would allow the postal charges to pass in the Budget session. The Democratic Labor Party had the balance of power in the Senate and it was prepared to take the popular stand. No honourable members opposite who were then in government were standing in this place saying that we should block the postal charges then. Of course they were  not;  they had the responsibility of government and of running things and they had to accept the unpopular decision, just as we have to accept the unpopular decision now. That is what government is all about. 
Nr Nixon- Inflation was not the problem it is now. This is a quite different matter. 
-Inflation? What the honourable member is saying is that if honourable members opposite increase charges costs are not increased but if we increase charges costs are increased? That is just utter rubbish. The cost of general postage in my first 2 years in this Parliament rose by 40 per cent. To suggest that that did not increase costs is ludicrous. To suggest that to increase postal charges in this way would add any more to costs than would the expansion of the Budget to provide this money out of general taxation revenue is ludicrous. It is money raised from the community whether it is raised in the form of the cost of postage stamps- that costs the average taxpayer less than it would if we put it on his taxation bill- or is raised in the form of general taxation or deficit budgeting. 
As I said before, in every area the present Opposition has continually practised the policy of putting loss situations on the taxpayer. Aus.tralian Country Party members will be well aware of the regular practice of using the railways for services where the freight rates are kept low because it is the only form of transport which can effectively transport the farmers' goods and of using road transport for those areas of transport which would be lucrative to the railway systems. The result of this is that every railway system in Australia is in great debt. Many services are being maintained only in order to provide a service to communities which could not survive in a free enterprise system without that form of support. I do not object to that one bit because that is what it is all about. We live in a society in which everyone does not live at the point of sale of products and if we need to subsidise the carriage of some goods then we have to do so. 
It is equally true to say that the cost of postal services varies throughout the community. Why should it cost 10c to carry a letter over the road? This is a ludicrous charge for the carriage of a letter over such a short distance. But it also will cost 10c to carry a letter from Melbourne to Darwin or from Melbourne to Perth. No one has suggested that there should be a differential rate and I think it would be quite improper to introduce one. But if we were to carry out the type of policies that a free enterprise operation would undertake we would have differential charges. I have said more than once that people- and politicians especially- do not like increased charges. But I would suggest also that they do not like other people to seek to pretend that they would do anything different. Whilst it may be true that honourable members opposite would change the rentals of telephones of country people to advantage certain people they would still have to raise the revenue one way or another and someone would pay because there is not one cent- I repeat, not one cent- expended by this or any other government that someone in the community does not pay and the only decision which is really made is how much shall be spent and who shall pay the greatest amounts. We have a different philosphy from that of the Opposition and that is why we sit on different sides of the chamber. 
It has been said that telephone services are being used to subsidise postal services. I take it that the Opposition uses this argument to justify an increase in the cost of postal services. If the Opposition's arguments were accepted an increased rate of inflation would result from such increased charges. Apparently the Opposition believes that if postal charges were increased telephone services would then be reduced. Rationalised further, the Opposition would then look at some of the services provided for public convenience by the Post Office which are uneconomical and it would then say that those services should be priced at a level which would make them completely uneconomic and as a result it would discontinue their operation. Some services have already reached this stage. I believe that postal orders are hardly competitive with bank cheques. They are far too expensive and would seem to me to be an inefficient form of transfer of money. This is especially so where postal orders for some reason have to be reclaimed when uncollected. One can cancel a cheque and one's loss is almost nil. But if one tries to recoup a postal order, especially one that has been sent to another country- and this has been the case for a long time- one can wait up to six to eight months to get one's money back. There are plenty of instances of this happening. These are services which could be and most likely should be examined to see whether or not they are worth continuing, and whether or not the Commonwealth Bank could possibly carry out the service at a lower rate and with greater efficiency. But whilst there is a need for these services and while the services are being used, the Post Office must provide them. The Post Office also provides many agency services which have nothing to do with the Post Office and on which I doubt that the Post Office makes any profit whatsoever. 
Finally, the honourable member for Gippsland referred to a newspaper in my electorate. He did not quote what was said by that newspaper when he was supporting increased postal charges in exactly the same circumstances as exist now. He quoted the situation at the time which suited him. The opinions of honourable members in this place on matters like this are more related to which side of the Speaker's Chair we sit than they are to the actual passage of the legislation. But the Opposition is acting in this matter in exactly the same way as the Opposition of the day did in 1967. Having rejected the legislation in July the Opposition is now facilitating its passage with verbal opposition in September. 
The argument was put forward that the Government should have waited until after the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  had made his Budget speech before introducing this legislation. Whilst this argument may be valid it is less valid than it sounds because the Bills were introduced previously. One of the reasons given for the rejection of the legislation when it was previously before the House was that the Opposition believed that the changes proposed in the legislation should have been introduced in the Budget. As I said before, I do not like increased charges but I realise that they are necessary. 
-I would suggest that the honourable gentleman speak to the clause under consideration. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In sub-clause (3), omit paragraphs (a) and (b) and substitute the following paragraphs:- 
wheat which is quota wheat in relation to the relevant season; 
any other wheat of the relevant season or of an earlier quota season delivered in the relevant season that is declared by the Board to have been sold by the Board, by way of export sale or sale for export, at a premium on the price of Australian standard white wheat, and paid for in full, during the relevant season; and 
any other wheat, being wheat of an earlier quota season, that- 
was delivered to the Board before the relevant season; 
was not included in the pool for a season before the relevant season; and 
is declared by the Board to have been sold by the Board, and paid for in full, before or during the relevant season. '. 
In sub-clause (5), after 'paragraph (3) (b)' insert 'or(c)'. 
The amendments will ensure that all non-quota wheat delivered to the Board is ultimately included in a pool for a season. However, the only non-quota wheat which will be included in the pool for the season in which it is grown is wheat sold for export at a premium during that season. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- (The table will be published in the weekly edition of Hansard.) 

<graphic href="090131197009195_89_3.jpg"></graphic>

The industry and the State governments were prepared to help to eradicate this serious insect problem provided there was matching Commonwealth finance. But rural Australia was once again sideswiped into oblivion when it mattered. I hope that sense will prevail and that the academics will not hide behind a wall of arrogance but will realise that our whole industry could be threatened because of resistance of live insects to present chemicals. I want to endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde).  He appealed to everyone associated with the wheat industry to make sure they put forward an absolutely top quality product. The world is crying out for supplies of foodstuffs and essential eating materials. I think this was outlined in very great  detail  by the Deputy Leader of the Country Party. 
Never before have the Australian wheat growers been let down so badly. As my Deputy Leader says, we have not got a stabilisation scheme; what we have got is an equalisation plan wherein the Government will contribute virtually nothing and the Australian wheat growers will be forced to accept in the base year as the equalised price- not a stabilised price- a sum of $2 which, in effect, is roughly only two-thirds of the price that they could obtain on the world market. This base of $2 in the base year will have an effect in future years because of the formula that has been adopted. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Sinclair's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What is the current enrolment in each electoral Subdivision in the State of Victoria. 
-Order! I suggest to the honourable member for Mackellar that he deal only with clause 7 and that he wait until the Committee is considering clause 8 before he deals with it. 
The Minister is perfectly right when he talks about monthly returns with respect to sales tax but my friend the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  was right on the point in his interjection when he said that sales tax was paid by a businessman and not by a private owner. There is another point: Sales tax is compulsorily payable but conversion from the use of petrol to liquefied petroleum gas is not compulsory. The businessman has no option about whether he will pay sales tax but the owner of a vehicle which is run on petrol has an option as to whether he will convert to the use of LPG. We want him to exercise that option. We want to encourage him to do so. This clause, as it has been drawn, does not encourage him to do so; it discourages him because he will say to himself: 'If I make this conversion I will have to fill in all these damn forms every month and I will be up for all sorts of paper work so the game is not worth the candle'. I appreciate that one cannot apply the petrol excise principles. If there were no other solution perhaps the Government's solution would have to be accepted, but there is another solution- the solution I put forward in my proposed amendment. I have not yet formally moved my amendment. Will you advise me,  Mr Chairman,  whether I should formally move it now or wait until we have disposed of this clause? 
-The comments on the third reading of the BUI must relate to the BUI. I would suggest that the honourable member is in order only in discussing the actual Bill, not matters which would normally be raised at the second reading stage and which flow from the Bill. The honourable member must debate the Bill itself on the third reading. 
-We have just heard an interesting speech on behalf of those who represent the free enterprise system. In the last 20 minutes the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  has told us just how important it is that the free enterprise system be based on a system of government subsidies. Every sentence he spoke was a demand for greater public expenditure in order to ensure private profit. 
'If necessary' has never entered into your thinking at all. You have never provided subsidies on the basis of need alone, you have provided subsidies on the basis of need and greed. The small farmer who had need got exactly the same level of subsidy, and thus a very much lower level of assistance, than the large farmer who had no need at all. One remembers well when these gentlemen who make so much noise gave $90,000 in cash to one wool grower in one year and gave an average of $3,000 each to the hard pressed wool growers who were really in need, and justified it in this Parliament An honourable member interjects that they wish they could get it now. Of course you wish you could get it now. That is what it is all about. You represent the large grazing interests in this community and you talk to the small farmers about their problems. You tell them that they have problems, which they know about anyhow. You encourage them into actions which they normally would not take and you mislead them into believing that their needs are quite often what they are not. Possibly the member for Mallee will tell us about how the Country Party encouraged his constituents to put in pear trees, then paid them to pull them out again. They were occupied, of course. 
-They were pulling them out in your electorate. 
The Ford Motor Company is doing very nicely, thank you. 
Doing very nicely, thank you. 
You would not know, and you do not drive a Ford, you drive a great big Mercedes. You are a poor unfortunate farmer who cannot afford any better than a Mercedes. 
-I do not know whether you fly an aeroplane. You are also one of those unfortunate Country Party people. 

 -Mr Speaker, every Budget that I have heard delivered in this Parliament has been, according to the Opposition, a bad Budget. It has made all of the economic mistakes, had all of the disadvantages that can possibly be built into any document presented in the Parliament. I repeat that all of the Budgets I have heard in this Parliament have had the same fault. I think there were five of them when I was in Opposition and most likely said many of those things and there have been 2 since I have been on this side of the House when the honourable gentlemen opposite were in Opposition. 
-Your opinion of facts and mine are different. Your facts are very similar to Grimm's fairy tales- very grim but not very relevant.  Mr Speaker,  in any Budget there are those things which will be disagreed with, those things which people will be told will affect them in ways in which they in fact will not affect them. We have heard a lot of talk about the differential rates of income tax and the effect that they will have on savings. I do not suggest that they will not have any effect on savings at all. They will cause some - 
-Disastrous! What utter rubbish. You are a schoolboy. The only thing in the Budget that will benefit you is the increased aid for child care. Most people who will come under this will have more trouble in filling out their income tax form. It will be more of an inconvenience than a cost. Most of them will benefit more from the abolition of the radio licence fee than the Budget will cost them in additional income tax. There will be some who will pay more tax. They will be people who have large incomes or substantial incomes from their investments. It is arguable that this is inequitable. I think it is also arguable, and I think honourable members of the Opposition would argue in this way on behalf of those whom you profess to represent, that their exertion is entitled to an adequate reward. 
-I think if I tried to convince the honourable gentleman I would first have to get a degree in kindergarten teaching, because I am sure that if I put any arguments now he would not understand them. There is one thing I would like to have seen in the Budget which I believe must be undertaken by the Government very quickly. That is a program of encouragement for the establishment in major centres of theatre complexes for the performance of live arts. It is all very well for governments- I say 'governments' collectively as the previous governments never made any efforts at all in this field; it has been an area of State responsibilty and still is at this stage- to provide theatre companies with money to keep going, to encourage actors, to encourage artists. If you do not provide adequate facilities where people can perfrom and do not provide facilities in areas other than the centres of the major capital cities you do not provide anything at all; because you must give people the opportunity not only to perform but to perform in front of other people, because an actor who performs on his own is not an actor at all; he is only half fulfilling himself. 
-You have a filthy, dirty mind. You should get out of the place if that is the best you can do. 
-I withdraw the remark. I was very strongly provoked,  Mr Speaker. 
The introduction of an allowance for handicapped children who are being kept at home will be a relief to parents, and I think it is welcomed by all honourable members. It is part of an expansion of assistance programs which has been taking place and which, whilst individually welcomed, is collectively criticised by the Opposition as an expansion of expenditure in the government sector, which is an umbrella set of words. 
-The Budget we are debating contains a considerable number of proposals with which I think every honourable member will agree. There is a new proposal to give assistance to handicapped children living at home. There are proposals to increase assistance for the provision of homes for pensioners. Alterations are proposed to the Aged Persons Homes Act. Substantial increases in financial assistance are being made available for education, not only to cope with the effects of inflation but also to assist in upgrading existing educational services in order to provide children with a better chance of attaining the level of education  from  which they are capable of benefiting. 
There are also aspects of any Budget with which honourable members will disagree. Honourable members are not noted for liking to introduce new taxes. They are not noted for liking to impose new forms of revenue raising. We all like to do the popular thing, and rarely do we like to do the unpopular. In this Budget, in the circumstances which exist at the moment, there is a minimum of items which one could suggest are unpopular or repressive in any way. The television licence fees have been dropped. A new tax has been imposed on unearned incomes. This tax may be a source of annoyance to some, but when people add up all the deductions that have been made most will find that it is not a very great impost. It will certainly be a lower impost on most taxpayers than were the 5 per cent or 10 per cent levies which were imposed across the board in the past. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  in his remarks on the Budget, came to some rather remarkable conclusions.  His  major argument was that the expansion in budgetary expenditure was too great, and he suggested that the increase should be cut from 32.8 per cent to 25 per cent. In the period prior to the Budget he had been supporting the States in their demands for additional funds. It should be remembered that the payments which will go to the States under this Budget are increased by more than 38 per cent compared with a total expenditure increase of 32 per cent. The increase to the States is greater than the total increase. If the Leader of the Opposition suggests that payments to the States should be increased but that public sector expenditure should be decreased, it is in some areas in which the Commonwealth is involved that he is suggesting expenditure should be cut. I think he owes it to this House and to the people of Australia to tell us where the 7 per cent cut in the growth of government spending is to take place. A 7 per cent cut in the rate of growth of government expenditure does not involve an insignificant amount. 
If we are to increase the amount provided for expenditure by the States, are we to reduce the amount that is to be spent on social welfare measures? The Leader of the Opposition, from all the inferences that could be drawn from his remarks, was suggesting that what the Government was doing was not sufficient and that it should also increase its expenditure on social welfare. He certainly made it quite clear that he did not believe the Government was spending enough on defence. I presume that he would want to increase the defence vote by the 3.5 per cent that he rather regularly mentions. The things he mentions are additions, not subtractions; but at the same time he talks about a 7 per cent cut in government spending. Is he saying the Government should cut expenditure in the fields of health and housing? All the suggestions from the Opposition are that the Government is not providing enough money for housing, although it is interesting to note that the States were not able to expend the money that was made available to them for housing last year and that money is being reallocated this year out of funds that had been made available in the previous 12 months. 
In the existing difficult economic conditions I think that the Budget is a reasonable one. No one will agree with all of the things in it. In fact, my experience is that most people will consider those things that benefit themselves to be good parts of the Budget and those things that disadvantage them to be bad parts of the Budget. Very few people do not want to give more to the pensioners, do not want to give more to Aborigines, do not want to see a better education system and do not want to pay a cent for it. Everything in the public sector costs money, just as it does in the private sector. Because the public sector has always been that section of our economy which has gone without in the past when there has been a need to cut expenditure, the needs of the public sector are greater than they should be. 
I believe that the Budget is a very sound economic document. It is significant that almost all of the complaints about it have related to one small area, the surcharge on unearned income. It is also significant that the people who have made the most noise are the people who will most likely pay the most under this scheme. To some people whose unearned income is a small part of their total income the new tax will be a nuisance rather than a revenue raiser or a punitive form of taxation. 
People on superannuation pension are not subject to this tax. I said last night that the Government must look at the need to provide the wherewithal for communities to provide greater recreation facilities. I mentioned the need to provide theatres, halls and other buildings where people can engage in the performing arts, which is one of the major art forms. The Government has moved into the area of encouragement of art. The performing arts are as important a section of the arts as any other section. In the larger country towns, especially in the regional centres, a need exists for proper theatre facilities so that people in these areas can gain the benefit of seeing the work of professional companies and so that those people who are actively engaged in this area can perform in decent circumstances which offer them a chance to give of their best and show off their abilities to the audiences. Nothing brings out the best in people and encourages them more than the opportunity to perform in circumstances which befit the standards of their performance. I hope that the Government will be able to devise programs of assistance which will enable basic facilities for the performing arts to be established. 
In any short period it is not possible to cover all of the matters which are contained in a national Budget for one year. The change in the value of our currency made last night or this morning is a matter on which I do not intend to comment at this time, except to express the hope that this action will give real assistance and encouragement to those industries which have suffered the cumulative blows of tariff cuts, removal of quotas and adverse economic circumstances. In what order these factors have affected those industries is difficult to establish. But certainly the people who have worked and do work in these industries are as entitled to expect jobs as are any other section of the community. 
-The Minister will be closing the debate. 
-Order! I would point out to the Minister that the amendment before the Committee is to add to clause 3 after the words 'Parliament House ' the words:  and buildings and works associated therewith. 
The present clause restricts the building to Parliament House only. 
Members of the Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House travelled the world to look at designs for our new and permanent Parliament House. We had some complications there. Some of these members came back and voted against their own recommendations. Therefore the question of what the committee will do and the buildings that will be covered by it are all very important. I mention these matters today only because there have been great confusion and changes of view in respect of the location of the new and permanent Parliament House and other considerations associated with it. I would suggest that the Minister who moved the amendment might elaborate on what he proposes because it seems that at this stage we are being asked to make a blanket decision in what will ultimately be a snap vote, particularly if debate is curtailed and discussion cannot take place. 
I voted against the gag on the second reading of the Bill a few moments ago. I did so firstly because I did not move it and secondly because I think one cannot flippantly cut off debate on the new and permanent Parliament House and expect the decision of the Parliament to be accepted by the public with complacency when all the details have not been supplied. I regret that during the second reading debate on the Bill I was not given an opportunity to speak. A number of other members also did not have that opportunity. Therefore, I hope that this will not happen again in relation to what is an important adjunct to the erection of the building. I hope we will not have a motion like this carried without any elaboration of what it really means, what it will cover, and without the Parliament knowing fully what is intended. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="090131197009265_36_0.jpg"></graphic>

Other States have advantages over Queensland insofar as they have legumes such as subterranean red and white clovers which naturally form nodules in the soil of nitrogen which they take from the air. But in Queensland our siratros and Townsville stylos and lucernes do not have the advantage of regular winter rainfall which the southern States have. Consequently in the southern States legumes are more efficient fixers of nitrogen. In Queensland we have the problem of establishing longevity of pastures and also of keeping them established. Of course in the grain growing areas there is no pasture phase and this makes it very difficult to keep up the standard and the quality of the soil unless we inject large amounts of artificial nitrogen. There are some areas of land in which it is difficult, even with the establishment of legumes, to have mutual beneficial relationship with the rhizobia bacteria to allow nodulation of the root system of the plants to occur. 
In case those who live in cities think this is a one way traffic advocated by members of the Australian Country Party to help rural areas, I submit this is not so. With the increased productivity resulting from the use of fertilisers- I endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Darling when he said that nitrogen is probably the element most required in all farming land over the whole of the world- there is more employment, more freight, and more income tax paid. It has been reliably assessed that if the subsidy were abandoned on account of loss of productivity a lesser amount of taxation would be collected than would meet the cost of maintaining the subsidy. Additionally, there has been a tendency in recent years to use nitrogen as one of the bases in what we term feed lot operations, particularly in the droughts that seem to plague rural Australia with rather monotonous regularity. Many stock have been kept alive with the use of the baled roughage and molasses and nitrogen. 
I compliment the previous Government which allowed the subsidy to be paid on urea and other nitrogen substances which were used for the feeding of stock in drought conditions. There is an absolute necessity to decrease costs in the rural sector. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics indicated to me today that last year the total costs in the rural sector were $3,548m and next year they are estimated to be $4,044m- an increase of $496m. It is remarkable to note that the wages factor accounts for $70m, and fertiliser accounts for $82m on account of the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his Ministers took away the fertiliser bounty and prices are going up. There have been increases of $70m in fodder costs and $100m in marketing expenses due basically to increased wages in that sector. The increase in the cost of repairs and maintenance has been $30m and the increase in fuel and electrical cost has been $Sm. It is absolutely essential, if we are to absorb the cost factor in the production of our essential foodstuffs, that everything be done to balance the budget by having increased productivity. 
The amount of money involved in this piece of legislation is estimated to be $ 13m this financial year. It is remarkable to note the increase in the cost of fertiliser in the period from March 1 97 1 to July 1974. If we take that base period we find that the price of sulphate of ammonia in New South Wales has increased from $32.60 per tonne to $50.10 per tonne. This is a rather remarkable increase in the cost of a very essential product used in farm practice. The $ 1 3m which I mentioned represents roughly 5 per cent of the total fertiliser bill It is estimated that the industry paid $2m to $3m more for all fertiliser used during the last financial year. We in the Opposition fully support the extension of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. I would indicate that nitrogenous fertiliser is used in rather significant quantities in certain areas of Australia. I seek leave of the House to have incorporated in Hansard a table which indicates the amount of nitrogenous fertiliser used in Queensland in the period 1969-70 to 1973-74 and the projections for the period 1974-75 to 1978-79. 
-Is leave granted? 
Order! There is too much conversation in the chamber. I suggest that honourable members remain silent. 
-The discussion is concluded. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="090131197010024_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

remains in office for a long period or not important social gains have been made. 
From the economic point of view, it is a very difficult period to be in office. It is more difficult than at any other time since World War II. It is very difficult to make decisions on economic matters when conditions are changing quickly. Variables such as exchange rates, commodity prices, rates of inflation in the major nations, and output and employment are extremely uncertain. It follows that nerve is needed in the economic management. In conditions of uncertainty, there is always a danger of 'ad Hocery', that is, too many ad hoc decisions. Lags in economic policy mean that we must try to judge the future, make what we believe are the correct decisions and then wait. We must resist the temptation to over react and to panic. I agree that inflation will not be overcome quickly. The present likelihood is double figure rates of inflation will continue for some years. We may need to learn to live with 

<graphic href="090131197010024_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

inflation and indexation. The alternativesavage unemployment- is certainly completely unacceptable. 
-Is the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware of reports that a firm in Portland was granted Sim by the Victorian Minister for Decentralisation for decentralisation purposes and that this money was not used for such purposes by the firm but was invested in the short term money market? Can the Minister inform me whether any Commonwealth funds were involved in this operation? 
-In accordance with standing order 226 the Committee will first consider the Second Schedule of the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many students have entered medical schools in Australian universities in each of the last 1 5 years. 
How many have graduated in medicine in each of those years. 
How many were in receipt of Commonwealth university scholarships in each case. 
-I can sympathise with the problems of the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  related to staff in Parliament House as I have had considerable experience in Opposition under a former government. Adequate staff in this place and in the electorates has never been available to honourable members but the position is no different with different governments although there may be times when staff is increased but those increases are usually for members at the leadership or ministerial level. I think, however, that the Parliament should pay some tribute to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  who has done more for backbench members than any other Minister, irrespective of his term of office as Leader of the House or of his political colour. The one exception may possibly be the Minster who originally provided staff in electorates for members. That was a major break through and was an enlightened decision at the time it was made. However this is not the subject to which I wanted to refer in this debate. 
My concern, in speaking to the estimates of the Parliament, is related to the standing of the Parliament and its members. The honourable member for Wimmera has echoed what I consider to be the most dangerous situation the Parliament faces at the moment. Over a considerable period the Australian Press has embarked on a clear policy of denigration of the Parliament and its members. Only last weekend we saw Press articles purporting to suggest that members of Parliament had different rights in relation to taxation from other persons when, in fact, every person in the community who receives an overnight allowance does not have that questioned provided he does not claim more for expenses than the amount allowed. Members of the Press are included in this category, but they always seem to forget their own privileges when talking about the excessive privileges of others. I do not want to discuss this aspect at length but it should be pointed out that the articles which were published were of a scurrilous nature and were deliberately biased against members of the Parliament. The people who wrote them knew they were untrue and also clearly knew that many other people in the community- in fact all people who receive expense allowances for various reasons; tax free allowances- do not have to vouch for such expenses provided they do not claim in excess of the allowance. I mention this matter because I think it important to point out the exact position. 
Another matter which concerns me seriously is the campaign, which has been going on for as long as I can remember but which has moved strongly in recent months, to suggest that only certain persons elected to this Parliament have any right to any say in decisions of the Government. Many of the articles which I have read suggest that only one person has any right to a say in the government of the country- on economic and fiscal decisions and on government policy. It is not unusual, in fact it is quite regular, to read Press articles suggesting that if the Prime Minister makes a decision no other member of Parliament, especially a Government supporter, has any right to query it. It is being portrayed that if members collectively of the Government Partymembers of the present Opposition never had this problem because they had no say when in government but were only ciphers for those at their head- disagree with the decisions of their executive,, they should have no say. I disagree with that contention. The people of my electorate elected me to come to Canberra and accept responsibility for Government decisions, and I do whether I like them or not. That is what this business is all about and it is what we have to do. 
-They have their say in the Party room, the same as does any other member. 
-I do not doubt the sincerity of the honourable member, but I have never seen a member of the Opposition parties cross the floor when in government and that government 's position was on the line. It is usually a paper tiger operation for good publicity and the honourable member knows it. My concern is that proper democratic processes should be carried out. Members who are expected to vote for Government policies in the Parliament should be entitled to exercise their rights to challenge matters when they consider it necessary and to express opinions on decisions of a smaller group of their members, no matter what positions they may happen to hold. But when they express their opinions they are denigrated as being disloyal and not carrying out the functions of government. It is my opinion that members who sit in this Parliament and support government decisions- as members do, no matter which party sits on this side of the House- are entitled to challenge the decisions of government within the proper confines of their Party rooms. 

-No matter included in Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ), which we are presently discussing, has been altered in any way. Subsequent legislation mentioned in the Budget statement may have been altered, but none of it is included in this Bill. The honourable member should understand the processes of the Parliament before he makes interjections of that type. The danger I talk of is not a danger which comes from within the Parliament; it is a danger from without. A series of articles continually appears in the Australian Press seeking to prevail on supporters of the Government not to express an opinion and not to dissent from any decision of the Cabinet or the Prime Minister irrespective of whether they think it right or wrong. To my knowledge, and I may be wrong, there have been about 2 occasions only in the last 2 years when an opinion of the Prime Minister has not been carried in the Caucus room. That, I think, is reasonable, but it is irresponsible to say that Caucus and members should have no right to express an opinion within their own Party on matters on which they are expected to vote in the House. In my opinion this constitutes the greatest danger that could possibly exist to democratic government in this country. 
What these Press articles are saying is that the only rights that members of the public have in electing members to Parliament- this applies equally to Opposition members- is that they shall vote on election day, that those they elect shall come to Canberra and vote for a leader and having chosen that leader for the next 3 years they will have no right to exercise any authority over that leader or members of the Cabinet. In the case of the Opposition their leader chooses his Cabinet but our Party elects the Cabinet. What the articles suggest is not what parliamentary representation is all about. Those newspapers which carry these stories are mischievous in the worst possible way. They are seeking to establish, under the guise of a democratic parliament, a principle whereby there is an elected dictatorship. I do not care which side of politics is involved, I believe that members who are elected to Parliament should seek to represent their constituents in the best possible way the system enables to do so. 
The Westminster system is a crisis system. Every time the bells ring in this House there is a crisis for the Government. That is what the Westminster system is all about. It is a competent system. There is no provision in the Westminster system for a government to be defeated and survive. This is not like the system in Washington where the  President  stands above the Congress and can be defeated every day of the week but stays in office for 4 years unless something happens as happened to recent Presidents. While we have the party system we will have, of necessity, members voting in blocs in the Parliament. They must therefore be able to express their opinions elsewhere, and elsewhere is in the Party room. If that is denied the democratic system does not exist and cannot exist. In the Labor Party members have that right. It is an unalienable right and one which, I think, ought to be defended, not denigrated, by people who profess to defend democracy but in fact attack it on a daily basis. 
-Order! The right honourable member's time has expired. 
-Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Order! If the honourable gentleman wants to continue his remarks I suggest that he use the limited time he has in discussing these estimates. 
There are a dozen issues of that nature which require answers. I could refer to the Minister's failure to honour a promise to the people at Walker's shipyard in Maryborough. That constitutes just the straight breaking of a promise. These are all matters that ought to be explored in this Parliament, but plainly there is just not the time. Again the Minister has failed to do what he said he would do upon coming into office, and that is to introduce taxation incentives for shipping companies to enter overseas trade. The Minister has failed to assist the shipbuilding industry. We are now down to about one shipbuilder in the whole of Australia. AU of these things ought to be explored during the consideration of these estimates, but we are limited to an hour and a half in the consideration of this very important area. 
I want to raise another matter which is of importance. I have given to the Minister a list of trade unions which I believe are under very strong communist domination. I seek leave to have the list incorporated in Hansard. 
-Order! the honourable member's time has expired. 
That the honourable member's time be extended. 
Progress reported. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="091131197410223_89_7.jpg"></graphic>

There is not one fishing boat among the ships listed in that document. Each of those ships was suited to the type of work that Evans Deakin was carrying out. In addition to those 22 large ships for which it could have tendered but did not, it could also have tendered, if it wished to do so, for 100 fishing vessels, 21 tugs of various sizes and 13 rig supply ships. Evans Deakin elected not to tender in respect of those vessels. This illustrates one of the reasons why Evans Deakin is in the position in which it finds itself today. It is an inefficient badly administered shipyard. 
Let us look now at the vessels for which Evans Deakin tendered but was not the lowest tenderer. I ask for leave to incorporate this list. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Will the Minister explain his remarks in the second reading debate on the Social Services Bill (No. 3) that some States had absorbed into their own revenues the double orphans pension initiated last year? What States were involved? What evidence exists that States have so restricted their social welfare budgets that in order to obtain revenue they have to rob children who have been deprived of their parents? If this practice continues, does it make impossible any initiatives by the Australian Government to give assistance to disadvantaged sections of the community? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
That the following new clauses be insetted in the Bill. 
1 ) After clause 36, insert the following clause:- "36a. Section 3 of the Principal Act is amended by inserting in sub-section ( 1 ), before the definition of 'Australian Mariner', the following definitions:- '"Appeal Tribunal" means a War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal established under the Repatriation Act 1920-1974; "Assessment Appeal Tribunal" means an Assesssment Appeal Tribunal established under the Repatriation Act 1920-1974;'.". 
After clause 37 insert the following clauses:- "37a. After section 8 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted:- 
*8aa. (1) A person who has claimed a pension or other benefit under this Act arising out of the incapacity or death of an Australian mariner and whose claim has been refused by the Commission on the ground that- 
the mariner is not suffering from any incapacity; or 
the incapacity or death of the mariner is not directly attributable to a war injury sustained by the mariner, may lodge with the person who is the prescribed person for the purposes of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 64 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1974 an appeal to an Appeal Tribunal against the determination of the Commission. '(2) The person with whom an appeal is lodged under sub-section ( 1 ) shall forward the appeal to the Commission, which shall transmit it to the Appeals Tribunal with the records in the possession of the Commission relating to the appellant. '(3) Section 64 (other than sub-sections ( 1), ( 1 A) and (2)) of the Repatriation Act 1920-1974 applies in relation to an appeal under sub-section (1) as if that appeal were an appeal under that section. ' 8 AB. ( 1 ) An Australian mariner- 
who is in receipt of a pension under this Act; or 
who is not in receipt of a pension under this Act but as to whom- 
the Commission, a Pensions Committee or an Appeal Tribunal has determined that he has an incapacity that is directly attributable to a war injury sustained by the mariner; and 
the Commission or a Pensions Committee has decided that the incapacity is so slight that it does not warrant a pension assessment, may, within 3 months after- 
the date of the notification of the assessment by the Commission or a Pensions Committee of his pension or the date of the notification of the refusal by the Commission or a Pensions Committee to alter the existing assessment; or 
the date of the notification by the Commission or a Pensions Committee that the incapacity of the mariner did not warrant a pension assessment, or, if the appellant was at any time during that period a resident of the Torres Strait Islands, within a further 3 months after the expiration of that period, lodge with the person who is the prescribed person for the purposes of subsection (1) of section 67 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1974 an appeal against the current assessment of the rate of his pension or against the decision that a pension assessment is not warranted, as the case may be. '(2) The person with whom an appeal is lodged under sub-section ( 1 ) shall forward it to an Assessment Appeal Tribunal with all the records relative to the assessment appealed against or to the decision that a pension assessment was not warranted, as the case may be. '(3) Sections 68, 69 and 71 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1974 apply in relation to ah appeal under sub-section ( 1 ) as if that appeal were an appeal by a member of the Forces under section 67 of that Act. '(4) For the purposes of the application, by virtue of subsection (3) of this section, of the provisions of the Repatriation Act 1 920- 1 974 referred to in that sub-section- 
a reference in those provisions to a Repatriation Board shall be read as a reference to a Pensions Committee; 
a reference in those provisions to Division 3 of Pan III of the Repatriation Act 1920-1974 shall be read as a reference to this section; 
a reference in those provisions to the Repatriation Act 1920-1974 shall be read as a reference to this Act; and 
a reference in those provisions to a pension shall be read as a reference to a pension under this Act. '8ac. (1) Division 4 of Part III of the Repatriation Act 1920-1974- 
applies in relation to an appeal under section 8aa of this Act as if that appeal were an appeal under section 64 of that Act; and 
applies in relation to an appeal under section 8ab of this Act as if that appeal were an appeal under section 67 of that Act. '(2) For the purposes of the application, by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) of this section, of Division 4 of Part III of the Repatriation Act 1920-1974- 
a reference in that Division to a Repatriation Board shall be read as a reference to a Pensions Committee; 
a reference in that Division to a pension shall be read as a reference to a pension under this Act; and 
a reference in that Division to a member of the Forces shall be read as a reference to an Australian mariner.'. "37b. Section 8a of the Principal Act is amended- 
by adding at the end of sub-section ( 1 ) the following paragraphs:- '(c) the Appeal Tribunals; 
the Assessment Appeal Tribunals. '; and 
by inserting in the definition of 'claimant' in subsection (4), after the word 'appellant', the words '(including a person who is to be treated as an appellant by virtue of sub-section (4b) of section 72 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1974 as applied by virtue of section 8ac of this Act)'. "37c. Section 14 of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section substituted:- '14. ( 1 ) A medical practitioner shall, in reporting on any claim in relation to an Australian mariner, set out in his report his opinion- 
in the case of a claim in respect of the death of the mariner- as to the cause of the death; and 
in the case of a claim in respect of the incapacity of the mariner- as to the nature, cause and extent of the incapacity. '(2) Where a medical practitioner entertains a doubt concerning a matter upon which he is required, under subsection ( 1 ), to report, he shall state in his report that he entertains that doubt and shall indicate, so far as practicable, the nature and extent of that doubt. '(3) This section applies in relation to a medical practitioner, whether an officer of the Department of Repatriation and Compensation or not, who is required by the Commission, a Pensions Committee or an Appeal Tribunal to report on a claim. '. ". 
After clause 38 insert the following clause:- "38a. Section 32 of the Principal Act is repealed.". 
The amendments relate to a number of clauses. They are virtually machinery amendments. Proposed new clause  36a  adds to the definitions listed in the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act the words 'appeal tribunal' and 'assessment appeal tribunal and defines their meaning as being the type of tribunals established under the Repatriation Act  1920-1974  to decide appeals lodged by or on behalf of Australian mariners on the question of  ( 1 )  whether incapacity or death is a direct result of a war injury- appeal tribunal- or  (2)  the degree of assessment of pension appropriate to an incapacity directly due to a war injury- assessment appeal tribunal. 
Proposed new clause  37a  inserts into the principal Act a section  8AA  which authorises in subsection  ( 1 )  a person who has claimed a pension or other benefit under that Act arising out of the incapacity or death of an Australian mariner and whose claim has been refused by the Repatriation Commission, to lodge an appeal to a War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal against that determination by the Repatriation Commission. 
-I direct the honourable member's attention to the fact that this is a debate in committee and he is getting a little wide of the Bill. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 -Mr Speaker, we have just listened to what must be the most incredible speech that has ever been made in this House. If I may say, I am rather shocked, in view of the honourable member's background, that he should consider that it is a waste of Government money and an unsupportable priority that money should be made available to provide recreation facilities for young people in the community so that they can be occupied in healthy sport and recreation rather than wandering the streets or being captured in the corridors of high rise flats, as they were under the honourable member's government and under the Liberal Party Government of Victoria. I am absolutely shocked that an honourable member should make that sort of statement. The honourable member gets terribly upset when we refer to the past, and I do not blame him for that, because he was a member of a government which for 23 years did absolutely nothing about the maternity allowance, about child endowment for the first and second children which had not been adjusted since the previous Labor Government was in office in the 1 940s. He was a member of a government which did nothing, despite repeated pleas by members of this House, including yourself,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for a special pension for orphans. Now he stands in this House and complains that where nothing was sufficient 2 years ago $ 1 1 is not sufficient now. I do not know how many multiples of nothing you provide before you get past nothing. My arithmetic says that nothing plus nothing equals nothing, and that is exactly what the orphans would have got under the Liberals. In Victoria and in most of the other States that is exactly what orphans have received. 
I have a table here which does no credit to any State government in Australia, and I do not make distinctions between the parties on this. In Victoria, for State wards cared for by foster parents this Government has provided an orphan pension of $10 which is in the nature of a child endowment type payment to those people to assist with the care of orphans. We have the Victorian Premier reaching his hand into the pockets of these children and stealing the $10 like a thief in the night and his colleagues in other States are doing exactly the same thing. The money is going straight into State Treasuries; not one cent of it goes to help these people. The Liberal Party ought to talk about its social welfare conscience! 
I hope that what the honourable member is saying is in fact the policy of a future Liberal government, but I have doubts, because I have also a memory of what the Parliamentary Liberal Party does about its policies. I can remember well the day after the Liberal Party adopted at its federal conference as federal policy that equal pay should be paid for equal work. An amendment to the Public Service Act was moved in this House one day after it adopted that policy and every member of the Parliamentary Liberal Party, which was professing that as a policy, voted against the provision of that reform. So much for its policy. 
Another remark was made about the first 7 days unemployment benefit. In my electorate the Liberal State members are spending all of their time decrying the fact that people are getting unemployment benefit and are calling them bludgers. There is no suggestion that the benefit should be paid for the first 7 days. What the State Liberal members are demanding is that they not be paid at all. The  speaker  who will follow me, the former Minister for Social Services, during a State Electricity Commission strike in Victoria denied unemployment benefit to 6,000 people in my electorate and said that their families could starve as far as he was concerned because one member of their union was involved in a strike over 100 miles away in which they had no say whatsoever. He did this on a pretext which I believe was contrary to the Social Services Act, but nevertheless he quoted as his authority a very eminent former lawyer who led his party at one time. He knows more about the law than I do, but I still think it was illegal. 
This Budget provides new initiatives in social services. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  made a number of remarks about the allowance for handicapped children. I hope that the test on this is administered very liberally, and I mean that in a small ' 1 ' context. I hope also that the money is paid to the handicapped children and does not become another form of revenue taxed to the extent of 100 per cent by the State governments, because that is the evidence. The honourable member for Hotham also mentioned housing and said that the supplementary assistance should be increased. I think he is aware, as every Victorian member is aware, that every time the supplementary assistance is increased the Victorian Government increases the rents of pensioners and takes every cent of it. It takes also the increases in pensions that are granted in substantial amounts so that pensioners living in Housing Commission accommodation in Victoria find it very difficult to get any benefit whatsoever from amounts paid to them as additional benefits by this Government. 
Recently the Premier of Victoria was asked if he was prepared to provide any assistance to pensioners who would be affected by substantial Board of Works rates in that State. His response was: 'I will ask the Federal Government if it will put up the pension. ' That was his response. That was all the Victorian Government was prepared to do to assist. It would be clear to anyone who examines the record of that Government in this field that if the pensions were put up, as the Premier suggested, the rates would go up so that that money could be collected not only from the people paying rent who already have their increased pensions confiscated by the State Government, but also from the home owners. 
In any situation it is desirable to increase the amounts paid to the unfortunate in our community. I hope that there never will be a situation in which members of this Parliament are happy about the benefits paid to those who are unfortunate. I doubt whether we will ever reach a situation in which the payments made will satisfy the supporters of the Government let alone members of the Opposition. I remember what happened on the first night I spent in this Parliament. The then Treasurer gave the pensioners a great big dose of sympathy but not one red cent. He just gave them sympathy. I remember the large campaigns which were conducted just before the demise of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  as Prime Minister about the Budget of that year and what was not given to the pensioners. The honourable member for Hotham was a member of the then Government, but I did not hear his protestations at that time. I believe that his association with social welfare and with people in this area has most likely awakened him to the needs, but I do not believe that it has awakened the leadership of his Party to those needs. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  tried hard in the social services field- I pay him due credit for doing so- but he had to compete with the other interests of budgetary policy and he did not get anything near what he hoped to get for the people in need. 
It is one thing to enter into a debate on a specific Bill- we heard the same thing said in the pensions debate- and go through a long list of items on which one considers the Government should increase expenditure, but it should be remembered that when the honourable member for Hotham talked about percentage increases in expenditure on the arts and percentage increases in expenditure on tourism and recreation, that he was talking about total amounts of around $20m or $2Sm and that when he talked about percentage increases in expenditure on social services he was talking about amounts of thousands of millions of dollars. Since the introduction of the Budget, of which these proposals are a part, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and the Leader of the Opposition have constantly demanded not only in this place but also outside that there be cuts in Government spending of up to $2,000m, but they have not indicated where those cuts should be made. I assume that if what the honourable member for Hotham says is the policy of the Liberal-Country Party coalition were to be carried out, as he said, immediately upon its assumption of office, we can add another $ 1,000m to the expenditure on social welfare because that is the sort of money he was talking about this afternoon. What he has proposed this afternoon would cost out at $ 1,000m. That and the cuts of $2,000m would account for 25 per cent of the budgetary estimates for this year. 
Would the Liberal-Country Party coalition take it from the States, which get most of the money provided for in the Budget? Would it take the money from the field of education? I think that is the area from which some of the money would come because it has been made obvious by members of the Opposition that they are not happy about money being spent on education. Would the Liberal-Country Party coalition take the money from the health field, which is fast running into a chaotic situation? If it intends going back to the proposition it put forward of maintaining the private health funds it will have to pour many millions of dollars into that area. Is it going to get money by imposing increased taxes on mining companies? Not likely. Election funds are more important than equity in that field and the Liberal and Country Parties have promised the mining industry $100m to $200m in benefits in the form of special tax concessions. Are they going to tax the farmers further? Not likely. Where is the Liberal-Country Party coalition going to find the $3,000m it has promised? Where will it cut that sum? It is hypocritical for a group of honourable members to sit on the Opposition benches and suggest that they will increase benefits in isolation while their spokesmen on economic matters are standing in the same House and saying that they are going to make massive cuts in total government spending. Members of the Opposition cannot have it both ways. They can either increase spending or reduce it, but they cannot have one set of spokesmen saying one thing and another set saying another thing. 
Like the honourable member for Hotham, I suggest that there are numbers of new benefits which should be developed and introduced by the Government. One of the areas in which I hope some action will be taken in the not too distant future is in relation to the amount of allowable earnings for people in receipt of the age pension. Because of the rate of inflation I believe that, despite the increases in pension rates, the limit on the amount allowed to be earned by pensioners who are willing to go out and earn something for themselves or who are capable of doing so- it should be remembered that there are many people who are willing to work but who are unable to do so- should be reviewed. There should be some alteration in that regard. I do not think that it would be very difficult to do so nor do I think that it would cost the Government much. 
Another area in which I believe some action ought to be contemplated or attempted is the application of the means test to the provision of pensioner medical cards. I think that some effort should be made to renegotiate that means test with the Australian Medical Association. I realise that it is an extremely difficult area of negotiation and that the AMA has remained almost static on this matter over a period of years, but I would hope that some approach could be made on this matter so that the non-receipt of this benefit by some pensioners will not continue. It is a serious loss especially to a person who is ill. I hope that humanitarian rather than monetary considerations will result in this situation being corrected. 
One other area in which it seems to me that action should be taken is the area of assisting widows with children. It does not appear to me that sufficient cognisance is taken of the very high expenses involved in children attending high school. This is nothing new; some alterations have been made in this field. When a person depends on a pension of any kind, the child is very severely disadvantaged, even though educational and other benefits may be provided. This is a social welfare area and some serious examination should be undertaken of the means by which such children can be placed on the same basis as other children. 
As I said at the outset, it is not difficult to find areas in which social service benefits should be improved. I understand that the honourable member for Mackellar intends to deal specifically with one area. I wonder whether it is not beyond his very broad vision to find 100 such areas to which benefits should be extended. However, given the economic circumstances which exist at present and acknowledging the demands of the Opposition, which it forgets in debates like this, for reduced government spending, I believe that the Government must seek to introduce those new benefits which it aims to introduce in a rational and orderly manner. That will not satisfy the needs of many sections of the community. It certainly will not satisfy the wishes and aims of the majority of members of this Parliament, whether they be supporters of the Government or members of the Opposition, and I do not believe that anyone in this Parliament genuinely begrudges the giving of assistance to those in need. But responsibility demands that we must set priorities. Whether those priorities are right or wrong is a matter for individual or collective judgment. 
To highlight a particular area and to suggest that that area and that area alone should receive special treatment at a time when one is setting priorities, is to be a little unfair. I hope that the honourable member for Mackellar will not pursue his foreshadowed proposition. I do not think that there is any honourable member who does not agree with his proposition that a supporting father needs assistance. I do not dispute it, but I do think that it is a little unfair to propose it in isolation. One could ask whether the Opposition would be prepared to swap the handicapped children's allowance for this proposition it has advanced because those are the sorts of priorities with which any Minister, no matter from which area of politics he comes, is confronted when he must prepare a budget. He is given certain sums of money and he has certain fixed commitments to meet. It is all right to say that the Minister should do this and should do that. Every personthe honourable member for Hotham has been a Minister- is aware that when Budget allocations are made no Minister gets all that he requires. It usually happens that, if he has done very well one year, in the next year he will have more difficulty in justifying increases than before. 
It is also unfair to make a comparison by reference to the Department of Urban and Regional Development. This is a new Department, established only 2 years ago. Its Budget allocation last year would have been lower than its normal requirements, as the Department then was not even fully set up. To say that the percentage increase in funds allocated to it this year as against last year is greater than the percentage increase in funds appropriated to the Department of Social Security in the same period is to use a debating technique rather than to deal with matters of reality. 
I support the proposals in this Bill. I think that they are well put together. Many areas of social services are left still to be tackled. These proposals leave many needs still to be met and completed. But, in the context of the Budget, which because of economic circumstances had to be drawn as it was, the moneys available for social service purposes lead me to claim that it is a reasonable Budget and that this Bill is one which, I believe, every member of the House should support. 

 Mr CHIPP (Hotham)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 

 Mr SCHOLES (Corio)-I also wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Amendments Nos 1 to 46. 
Clauses to be amended- 
Clause 4. 
1 ) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears- deceased person' means a person, whether his usual place of residence was in Australia or not, as to whom the Director-General is satisfied that he died as the result of personal injury or sickness suffered- 
in Australia; or 
outside Australia, provided that he was a person who would have been entitled to benefit in respect of incapacity as the result of that injury or sickness if he had not died; 
Clause15. 
This Act does not apply to or in relation to personal injury or sickness occurring on a ship, boat or aircraft on or in the water or air-space above the continental shelf of Australia, or to death as the result of personal injury or sickness so occurring, unless the ship, boat or aircraft is registered in Australia or the operations of the ship, boat or aircraft are based on a place in Australia. 
Clause 17. 
1 ) Benefit is not payable in respect of personal injury that occurred before the commencing date, unless the injury resulted or results in- 
permanent incapacity; or 
temporary incapacity extending beyond, or commencing after, that date, and any remedies in respect of the injury have been exhausted and the person has not recovered damages in respect of the injury. 
Clause 22. 
1 ) Benefit is not payable in respect of sickness that occurred before the date fixed under section 2 1 , unless the sickness resulted or results in- 
permanent incapacity; or 
temporary incapacity extending beyond, or commencing after, that date, and any remedies in respect of the sickness have been exhausted and the person has not recovered damages in respect of the sickness. 
Clause 24. 
1 ) In the application, by reason of section 20, of- 
paragraph 39 (1) (a)- the reference in that paragraph to the eighth day after the day on which the incapacity commenced shall be read as a reference to the twenty-second day after the day on which the incapacity commenced; and 
paragraph 39 (1) (b)- each reference in that paragraph to 5 weeks shall be read as a reference to 7 weeks. 
Clause 28. 
If, during the period of 1 year ending on 30 June last occurring before his incapacity commenced, a person derived earnings as a self-employed person but did not derive earnings as an employee, his weekly income for the purposes of this section is- 
one-fifty-second of the amount of his earnings during the period of 1 year ending on 30 June last occurring before the incapacity commenced; or 
one-one hundred and fifty-sixth of the amount of his net income during the period of 3 years ending on 30 June last occurring before the incapacity commenced. whichever the Secretary determines as representing more fairly his earnings per week. 
Clause 29. 
1 ) The weekly income of a person- 
whose usual place of residence at the time when his incapacity commenced was in Australia; and 
who had attained the age of15 years but who had not attained the age of 26 years when his incapacity commenced, is, after he attains the age of 2 1 years, such amount, not being less than $50 per week, as the Secretary determines as fairly representing the amount that the person's weekly earnings would have been if he had not been incapacitated. 
The Secretary shall make a determination for the purposes of sub-section ( 1 ) when the person attains the age of 2 1 years and when he attains the age of 26 years, but except as provided by sub-section (3), shall not make a determination at any other time. 
If the person became incapacitated after he attained the age of 21 years, the Secretary shall make a determination for the purposes of sub-section ( 1 ) when the Secretary makes a decision on the person's claim for benefit and shall make a further determination when the person attains the age of 26 years. 
Clause 34. 
If a medical practitioner certifies that the percentage of a beneficiary's incapacity has increased, the rate of benefit payable to the beneficiary, as from the date of the certificate, is the rate ascertained in accordance with the formula rx _ , where- r is the rate of benefit payable immediately before the date of the certificate; x is the percentage of the beneficiary's incapacity as certified by the medical practitioner; and y is the percentage of the beneficiary's incapacity used in the calculation of the rate of benefit payable immediately before the date of the certificate or that would have been payable but for sub-section 33 (3). 
Clause 35. 
1 ) For the purposes of section 33 or 34, the percentage of a person's incapacity is that percentage (being a multiple of 5 per centum) that a medical practitioner certifies in writing to be the percentage of the person 's incapacity. 
Where the percentage specified in the certificate is 10 or 5, the person shall be taken not to be incapacitated. 
Where the percentage specified in the certificate is 85 or more, the person shall be taken to be totally incapacitated. 
For the purpose of giving a cetificate as to the percentage of a person's incapacity, a medical practitioner shall take into account not only the person's physical or mental disability but also the extent to which his personal efficiency and ability to lead a normal life have been impaired. 
For the purpose of sub-section (4), the medical practitioner shall have regard to the tables of relative impairment set out in the work entitled 'Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment' prepared by the Committee of the American Medical Association on Rating of Mental and Physical Impairment as as last published by that Association. 
Clause 36. 
If, for any reason, the Secretary determines that the rate of benefit that, but for this section, would be payable to a person under section 33 or 34 is less than it fairly should be, the weekly rate of benefit payable to that person is such higher rate as the Secretary determines. 
If benefit is not payable to a person by reason of the operation of sub-section 35(2), the Secretary may determine that benefit is nevertheless payable to that person and at such rate as the Secretary determines. 
The rate of benefit payable to a person under this section shall not exceed the rate that would be payable to him if he were totally incapacitated. 
Clause 37. 
1 ) Subject to this section, Part VIII applies to and in relation to a certificate of a medical practitioner under this Division as it applies to and in relation to determinations of the Secretary. 
Clause 39. 
1 ) In the case of incapacity that the Secretary determines to be total incapacity, a benefit is payable to the incapacitated person- 
Clause 43. 
1) A benefit is payable to a child (including an adopted child) of a deceased person who died on or after the commencing date or of the spouse of such a person at a rate per week- 
equal to three-twentieths of the rate per week of the benefit- 
that was payable to the deceased person under paragraph 39 ( 1 ) (b) immediately before his death; or 
if the deceased person was not in receipt of benefit immediately before his death or was in receipt of benefit at a rate ascertained otherwise than under paragraph 39 ( 1 ) (b)- that would have been payable to him under that paragraph if he were totally incapacitated before his death; or 
if both parents of the child have died-equal to twice the rate that would otherwise have been applicable under paragraph (a). 
A benefit is payable to a child of a person who died before the date at the rate of $13 per week or, if both parents of the child have died, at the rate of $26 per week. 
Clause 47. 
1 ) Where a person has suffered, whether before or after the commencing date, severe facial or bodily disfigurement, the Secretary may determine that there be paid to that person a benefit by way of a lump-sum payment of such amount, not exceeding $10,000, as the Secretary determines. 
A benefit is not payable under this section if damages have been recovered in respect of the personal injury that caused the disfigurement. 
Clause 50. 
Subject to sub-section (2), where benefit under this Part (not being benefit at a rate referred to in sub-section 38(1) or section 39) is payable to a person (not being a child), there is payable to that person a benefit by way of a lump-sum payment, in lieu of the first-mentioned benefit, equal to the present value of the first-mentioned benefit, calculated by reference to interest at the prescribed rate and assuming that the benefit would continue to be paid as provided by section 17. 
Clause 51. 
For the purposes of this Part, where a woman, although not married to a man, lived with him on a permanent and bona fide domestic basis immediately before his death and- 
the woman had so lived with the man- 
for not less than 3 years immediately before his death; or 
from the time when the injury or sickness occurred until his death, whichever period is the shorter; or 
the man was survived by a child who was a child of the union between that woman and that man and was dependent on that man immediately before his death, then- 
that woman shall, unless she has re-married, be deemed to be a widow of that man; and 
that man shall be deemed to have been her husband and she shall be deemed to have been his wife. 
Clause 52. 
1 ) Subject to this Act, pensions are payable as provided by this Part to women who are widows of deceased persons. 
A pension is not payable under this Pan to a women who has attained, or after she attains, the age of 65 years. 
Clause 55. 
1 ) This section has effect where a husband who died after the commencing date is survived by more than one widow to whom pensions are payable under this Pan. 
Clause 56. 
This section has effect where a husband who died before the commencing date is survived at the proclaimed date by more than one widow entitled to a pension under section 54. 
Clause 65. 
In dealing with a claim or other matter under this Act, the Secretary shall act with as little formality and technicality and with as much expedition as the requirements of this Act and a proper consideration of the claim or matter permit. 
Clause 78. 
The proceedings of an Appeal Tribunal shall be conducted with as little formality and technicality and with as much expedition as the requirements of this Act and a proper consideration of the matters and questions before the Tribunal permit. 
An Appeal Tribunal is not bound by any rules of evidence. 
Clause 92. 
Before taking action under sub-section (4), the Secretary shall inform the beneficiary, in writing, of the decision that it is proposed to make. 
Sub-section 62 (3) and sections 63 and 64 apply, mutatis mutandis, in relation to a proposed decision under sub-section (4) as though it were a decision on a claim under Part VII. 
Clause 98. 
lf- 
having regard to the provisions of this Act and to any information in the possession of, to any circumstances known to, the Secretary; or 
by reason of the failure or omission of a beneficiary to comply with a provision of this Act, the Secretary considers that a benefit should be cancelled or suspended or that the rate of a benefit is greater or less that it should be, the Secretary shall inform the beneficiary in writing of the decision that it is proposed to make. 
If the Secretary has determined that the incapacity, whether partial or total, of a beneficiary is permanent- 
the rate of benefit payable to the beneficiary shall not at any time be reduced by reason only that the percentage of the beneficiary's incapacity has decreased; and 
the benefit shall not be cancelled on the ground that the incapacity has come to an end. 
A beneficiary may, as prescribed, apply to the Secretary to review any matter in connexion with a benefit, in which case the Secretary shall inform the beneficiary of the decision that it is proposed to make. 
Sub-section 62 (3) and sections 63 and 64 apply, mutatis mutandis, in relation to a proposed decision under this section as though it were a decision on a claim under Part VII. 
Clause 100. 
1 ) A person shall not- 
make, whether orally or in writing, a false or misleading statement- 
Clause 101. 
In a prosecution of a person under this Act for, or in relation, to, making a false or misleading statement, or for, or in relation to, presenting a document that is false or misleading in a particular, it is a defence if the person charged shows that he did not know and had no reason to suspect that the statement or document was false or misleading, respectively. 
Clause 105. 
Nothing in the law of a State or internal Territory operates so as to prevent a person from furnishing information, or making any books, documents or papers available,  to  the Secretary or an Appeal Tribunal for the purposes of this Act. 
Clause 109. 
Where a reference is made in a provision of this Act to a person being in receipt of a benefit, or to a benefit being paid, or payable to, a person, the operation of that provision is not, unless the contrary intention appears, affected by the operation of sub-section 107 ( 1 ) or paragraph 108(l)(d). 
Clause 1 10. 
Before taking action under sub-section (1), the Secretary shall inform the beneficiary, in writing, of the decision that it is proposed to make. 
Sub-section 62 (3) and sections 63 and 64 apply, mutatis mutandis, in relation to a proposed decision under this section as though it were a decision on a claim under Part VII. 
The Schedule. 
-I think that one member at a time should address the Chair. 
-The point of order is taken. I suggest that the honourable member debate only the question before the House. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Order! I put the vote on the estimates. I read them out immediately before the honourable member for Curtin took a point of order. After I put the question I took the point of order from the honourable member for Curtin and no one objected. 
-Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development are being discussed in this Parliament for only the second occasion yet this Department is now looked upon as one of the longer established departments of the Government and one which I would think would not be under future challenge as a department which was not required. It is a new initiative undertaken by this Government to involve itself in the needs of people in the community in the places where they live. Australia is a nation of people. It is not a set of little nations collected together in a group as some people would have us believe. I want to speak specifically about the area which I represent, namely Geelong, which is one of the designated growth areas under the program which has been formulated by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and his State colleagues after fairly long and detailed negotiations. 
The Geelong area has now reached the stage where a development corporation Bill is about to go before the Victorian Parliament. The major planning stages will then firm up so that the basis of growth will be very solidly laid, and in the main laid by those people representing the local communities. There are, however, problems with growth. Geelong, for instance, was one of the areas of most rapid growth in Australia during the middle 1950s. In fact, the area had a 78 per cent growth factor between 1952 and 1958. It then went through a long period of almost negative growth which in the last couple of years has accelerated, although not greatly. Like most provincial areas it has the problem of lack of balance in employment opportunities. Almost every provincial city in Australia has a comparable problem of lack of balance in employment opportunities. Geelong has a very solid base of blue collar work opportunities. It has a small base for work opportunities in the areas of what could be called tertiary employment. 
The tendency is- I suppose it is naturalespecially for big companies to place their headquarters with office staff in the capital cities and as close to the centre as is possible. Hence buildings go up 40 storeys although it is probable that it would be cheaper to build out of the city area. The tendency of governments- I think this is unfortunate- is to centralise their activities towards the centre of the big cities. It is not a requirement of efficiency. It is not a requirement of any type at all. But there is this tendency on the part of governments also to place their headquarters operations in the centre of big cities. A couple of years ago, for instance, the State Savings Bank of Victoria, which is a government bank, decided to establish a new headquarters in Melbourne. It is going to build a 40-storey building on the corner of Elizabeth Street and Bourke Street- which is getting to the stage where it is practically inaccessible to traffic- to house its headquarters staff which has no reason whatsoever to be in that locality. It may well be there are some policy sections which for reasons of communication might need to be in the central business district but there is certainly no need for a 40-storey building to house some thousands of staff. 
Geelong could do with the type of tertiary employment opportunities which could be created by the location of this type of activity in that area. Anyone who looks at the statistics will see that over a period of ten or twelve years there has been a very large listing of unemployed persons under the age of twenty. They are listed as clerical and sales workers. About 400 out of 1,000 were on unemployment benefits as recently as a couple of months ago. There are other factors to be considered. Development does not mean only jobs and houses. If that is all there is to it then it must fail. Development is about people. It is about the way they live. It is about the quality of life that they are able to enjoy and the existing opportunities to improve themselves. If an area is to maintain and attract people then it must provide those facilities which go with the standard and type of life that the people want. 
It is not difficult to plan and expend money to provide housing estates. It is more difficult but not very difficult to provide adequate public transport or road systems. In providing road systems very great care must be taken to ensure that they fit into the community pattern and do not disrupt established communities especially where older people live and where movement of people from one area to another may occur. No matter how much better the other area may appear to other persons it is not the community in which they grew up. The people there are not the people with whom they have grown up and with whom they want to live in the later years of their lives. There is disruption to their lives. I refer mainly to freeway type operations which are quite a problem in older areas, not only in Geelong but in every other city in Australia. Once you move people out of the homes in which they have grown up you can destroy what remains of their lives. This is especially so of older people. A new shiny home is not what they want. They want the place they are used to and the friends with whom they have grown up. 
Other things are necessary for a city. These are the sort of things that the Department of Urban and Regional Development or the Cities Commission has to look at very carefully in all the growth centres, to ensure that these things are provided before development takes place, not after it takes place, as was the case in the 1950s when people in houses to provide employees for industry were the whole basis of growth. The basis of growth must be the provision of places for people to live, not just places for people to work. Community facilities, recreational facilities, opportunities to expand and participate in cultural activities and opportunities for people not of Australian birth to mix and undertake their ethnic cultural activities are the sort of things that are necessary in a city if the city is to be a live and living thing, not merely an area in which a group of people are living. 
The Geelong area is a very sophisticated one. It has a long history of growth. It has all of the basic requirements of a city and it can be built onto fairly easily. Because of sound planning at an early stage of its development or possibly because there was a mistake in the estimation of growth, it has a basic water supply which will meet the requirements of a population nearly double that which exists at the present time. For similar reasons it has an internal road system which will not meet the future traffic requirements but which is certainly better than many of the inner city road systems of other cities. But the area does not have the type of cultural facilities that I believe, and I am sure that most people in the area believe, are essential for the needs of a growing community. Whilst these facilities eventually will be provided by the com- munity they will be provided at a time which most likely will be too late, unless these facilities are provided artificially from without. 
There are a couple of other things I would like to say. Geelong has a very well developed regional library system. I would like to see this system extended to provide reading material for ethnic migrant groups which make up at least 25 per cent of the population of the area. I know that the Department of Urban and Regional Development will take these important matters into consideration. I know that the planning authorities which will have responsibility for the area will also take them into consideration. But I hope that they will do this when the planning is being considered and not after. If these requirements are not considered together with growth factors when the planning takes place, disillusionment could quickly take place and destroy the best laid plans and the best intentions of any community. 
-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Are airport charges, at airports used or available for use by both airlines involved in the two airline agreement, fixed by the same criteria as those for airports from which the Government airline is excluded by State Governments. 
What additional financial responsibility do State Governments accept where, as an act of policy, such Governments exclude the Government airline. 
-Has the Prime Minister given consideration to proposals for an 8 per cent across-the-board reduction in all forms of government expenditure? Have the Premiers of Western Australia, New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland indicated their support for such cuts in allocations to the States which represent close to 40 per cent of Commonwealth expenditure? What effect would such cuts have on areas such as education, social services, and health, as well as the inflationary situation of the State Budgets? 
-Order! I think the honourable gentleman is getting fairly wide of the terms of this clause which repeals section 7 of the principal Act which relates to the body to which he refers. It does not give any powers at all to any Authority. 
continues in existence by force of this subsection as a body corporate under the name 'Australian Broadcasting Authority', but so that the corporate identity of the body corporate shall not be affected - 
That is what I am speaking to; it is the very continuing existence of this - 
-I rule that it is relevant 
I suggest that this is a severe condemnation by the Federation of Australian Broadcasters of the legislation now under consideration. Let me repeat that delegates to that convention included delegates from stations which are under control of the Australian Labor Party. So one cannot say it is just some group that has the power. I refer to that for the sake of those speakers who were saying that all the power is in the hands of a few people. It is a fact that some of the media come under the control of the Australian Labor Party. I do not want to take up undue time on this clause but I suggest that powers contained in this Bill to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act are such as to cause very serious concern. The position as I see it- it has been stated by other speakers in this debate- is that a government is not entitled to take on powers under the guise that it will not use the powers. This is the crux of the situation as I see it. 
If a government introduces into an Act powers which it will be able to use at some time in the future obviously this would be senseless unless there was some intention to use them. I am very concerned about the situation which will confront Australian broadcasters if this Bill is passed. I am strongly opposed to it. I believe that the action of the Opposition in drawing attention to the dangers that exist in the Bill is serving not only the Australian Federation of Broadcasters but also the Australian community. As far as it is within the power of an Opposition to ensure that there is a desirable freedom, we are trying to ensure that this freedom is available. If that freedom is not available to the media a limitation exists which is contrary to the democractic principles of Australia. I should like to conclude by updating a famous quotation of Thomas Jefferson, who said that our liberty depends upon the freedom of the media and that cannot be limited without being lost. 
-Order!-As the honourable member for Moreton also has an amendment to exactly the same place in the same clause of the Bill, I shall put the question in 2 parts. I shall put first of all that the figure and word stand part of the clause. 
-There is in fact no amendment. The Opposition is voting against the clause. 
Question put: 
That clause 14 be agreed to. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Under what conditions are TAA express delivery items accepted for delivery to private addresses. 
Are delivery costs pre-paid by the sender unless otherwise specified. 
When delivery from the airport to the destination is contracted to private carriers, are payments for this service met by TAA out of charges made against the sender. 
Are private contractors carrying out these contracts empowered to send delivery accounts to the person to whom items are forwarded, without notice to the recipient either in advance or at the time of delivery that these charges are to be levied as a result of acceptance of delivery. 
Will he inquire into accounts rendered by Mayne Nickless Ltd to addresses to whom TAA express delivery items are delivered. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
From what appropriation will funds for the regional employment development scheme be provided. 
What funds are actually available to fund the scheme in the period between the scheme's inception and the date of appropriation approval. 
If the funds available are not sufficient to fund the scheme, will a special Appropriation Bill be introduced to provide necessary funds. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering these measures? There being no objection, I shall allow this procedure to be followed. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="092131197411201_50_10.jpg"></graphic>

The Board will make 2 main recommendations in regard to exhibitors, namely: that there be a limitation on the share of the total number of exhibition outlets held by one person or company in certain key areas; and that there be limitations on the ownership or control of exhibition companies. 
The Tariff Board went on to specify what ground rules ought to be laid down. I know the view has been held that the Australian Government lacks the constitutional power to invoke these recommendations of the Tariff Board. I regard this view with some degree of scepticism. We have the foreign corporations power. I think that is a fairly unequivocal power. We also have the power applying to trading and financial corporations operating within Australia. Admittedly that is something that has not really been fully tested in the High Court of Australia, except I suppose in the concrete pipes case, but certainly I think the foreign corporations power ought to be specific enough. 
It is of some regret to me that this additional recommendation by the Tariff Board has not been implemented by the Government. I hope that that is something that can be done in -the near future. I hope that this measure will receive the support of the House and that the amended form proposed by the Government Will receive the approval of the Senate. I believe that with this legislation we will go a very long way towards continuing the great promotion and development of the Australian film industry, which has been a landmark and a great feather in the cap of the Whitlam Labor Government. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill and the amendment to be moved by the Minister for Science. 

Order! The honourable member has made his point. 
I refer to a statement by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  who said: 'We believe in a full employment society', while at the same time he was deliberately driving Australians into an unemployed society. The statement was made by the Government that it is interested in the individuality of people, and their ability to express themselves and to make their own way in life. People who are unemployed are unable to do that. For that reason precisely, I return to the most important pledge which was made and which has been re-affirmed by the Government. It is the pledge to find full employment for those who want to work. This is the umbrella standing over all other policies. It is an obligation accepted by governments in relation to activities in a nation. I have brought forward several matters. The six brought forward originally by the honourable member for Mackellar were presented by him with his own precise details, in a clear manner and in as objective and as truthful a manner as it would be possible to present any evidence in this House. We ask only that his statements, his charges and his indication of the breaking of guarantees be looked at, that they be answered by the Government and that they be answered, above all; in the truthful and objective manner that was a characteristic of his presentation. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate? There being no objection, I shall allow that course to be followed. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister have a thorough examination made of the Australian 
Constitution to ascertain whether there is any bar to any State government passing legislation to perpetuate itself in office without any form of election taking place? Will the Prime Minister also ascertain whether there are any means by which legislation proposed in Victoria, and already enacted in Queensland and New South Wales, whereby a conservative political base is expanded by legislative means in order to deny to the people the opportunity to elect governments, can be prevented? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="092131197411256_22_2.jpg"></graphic>

Let us look at the situation with other commodities. The fibre index has been falling continuously and the food index has been moving steadily upwards. The metals index rose from January, peaked in May, and has been moving steadily downwards since then. The 'National 
Times' key indicators repeatedly, week after week, indicate the very unsettled nature of the international economy, especially where commodities that we are heavily involved in in trade are concerned- commodities which affect our major trading partners. Finally I would like to have incorporated in Hansard a table on money supply. 
-Is leave granted? Leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="092131197411256_22_3.jpg"></graphic>

I should like to express some disappointment at one of the remarks of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  who is, I understand, the Opposition's candidate for  Speaker  if the Liberal Party takes the reins in this House. I wish to comment on a remark made by the honourable member about an election next year. He presupposes an election and I take it he supports the Senate's blocking of Supply which, in fact, means that this House surrenders its powers of government and becomes subservient to the other House. I hope that no person who seeks to occupy the Chair in this House would wish to see that happen. 
This Bill brings in a number of amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. Several members have stated that the present system is fair. An electoral system is fair only if the most incapable person eligible to vote is able to cast a vote with ease, without fear and without having it denied to him by the system in practice. If a party, person or government seeks, by legal means, to deny a disadvantaged section of the community its voting rights this can be achieved by placing complications or difficulties in the way of voting which will prevent a substantial proportion of the population from casting formal votes. In the last Senate election a deliberate nomination of candidates took place in New South Wales for the purpose of creating informal votes- in your electorate,  Mr Speaker,  20 per cent of the votes cast for the Senate were informalto the advantage of a political party which suffers least from the casting of informal votes. It in fact changed one seat in the Senate. It changed the majority in the Senate. Therefore, it changed the whole position of this Parliament. 
-I say that because the proportion of informal votes in Labor seats was nearly double on average the proportion of informal votes in Liberal seats, and the margin between 6 seats and 5 seats in New South Wales was only 4 per cent. 
-What I am saying-I think if you look at the statistics I will not need to say it too often- is that the order in which the seats rank in accordance with the percentage of Labor votes almost exactly relates to the order in the number of informal votes cast in the Senate election. 
-It was because of the difficulty of casting a vote for 73 candidates in New South Wales and 46 candidates in Victoria. 
-It was because of the fact, I would suggest, that most Liberal voters have had the benefit of greater education and most likely had other benefits. 
-I did not say that and I think the honourable member for Corangamite ought not to use those words. I suggest that what he has said is exactly what  Sir Henry  Bolte said. The honourable member is a person for whom I had some respect before he said that. I think it is a disgusting thing to suggest. What I am saying is that there are underprivileged people in this community who did not have the opportunity to go to a private college as the honourable member did, persons who have not had all the benefits of a big farm to live on and the advantage of plenty of time available to them, who are not quite capable of casting a vote and who went into the polling booths in the last election scared to death of casting an informal vote. These people are entitled to have their vote the same as your supporters. And you would seek to deny them! Make no mistake about it. You would also seek to deny them the full value of their vote by giving your friends, supposedly disadvantaged millionaire farmers, 2 votes to their one. That is what your Party is about to do in Victoria now by expanding the upper House. You are denying the people their right to vote in a democracy. I think it is a laughing matter too- that you would call yourself a democrat! 
-What he said was that people without education are not entitled to vote. I do not take any notice of the honourable member for Angas. You have sold yourself out. 
-The honourable member for Angas has sold himself out. He is now a slave of the Senate and prepared to do its will. I would hope that he would abandon any desire he has of holding the Chair in this House in any future government. 
Before the sitting was suspended, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  said that an example of the effect of taking away compulsory preferential voting would be what happened to the Liberal Party in England where that Party gained 25 per cent of the votes and won no seats in the House of Commons. I suggest that that situation has been occurring in Australia for some considerable time. Certainly it has been happening in Victoria with respect to the Australian Democratic Labor Party. The fact that a preferential voting system operated did not help that Party in any way gain any seats. What it did was take away any disadvantage which may have been suffered by the Liberal Party through votes going to the DLP. In England, had a compulsory preferential voting system applied, possibly the Liberal Party votes would have gone to the Conservatives and the Conservatives may have won additional electorates. But the Liberal Party would never gain greater representation in the House of Commons than it has now. It would not have served the interests of democracy. 
There are a number of provisions in this Bill which will, I believe, assist electors to cast valid votes. That is, after all, the important thing- giving electors an opportunity to cast valid votes. I do not, as some members do, sneer at people who have not the capacity to cast a valid vote. I suggest that honourable members go to some of their friends in industry and ask them what happens when a storeman, possibly well educated, possibly not, is asked to number from 1 to 100. Just before the last election I was speaking to people from the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd who said that the average error in numbering from 1 to 100 is 6 per cent and 2 per cent on the second try. Those same people were numbering the ballot paper for the Senate election in New South Wales under a situation of stress. Casting a vote, for some people, is a situation of stress. 
It is a situation of stress. There are people who actually cast their own votes without assistance. There are people who do not get the benefit of how to vote cards, especially if they want to vote for a minority party. These people in fact vote under situations of stress and are likely to make mistakes. In the existing situation, if a person voting in New South Wales at the last election had correctly numbered his Senate card from 1 to 7 1 and had repeated or left out one of the last three numberseven though it might have been for a candidate who had less than 100 votes in the State and would have been the first eliminated; therefore the order of preferences would have made no difference at all to his vote, it would not have been counted- that person's vote was wiped out. 
Preferential voting is a system under which a person indicates his order of preference, not his party's order of preference as the honourable member for Angas proposes. Even though a person may transcribe a party ticket he indicates his personal order of preference. That is supposedly the basis of the system. There is no person in this House- I point mainly to those prefessing support for preferential voting- who can tell me or anyone else what the 73 candidates- I would include the Chief Electoral Officer in this- from New South Wales in the Senate election or the 46 candidates in Victoria stood for. Nobody knew what they all stood for and there was no way, in many cases, that one could find out. Therefore how can one exercise a choice, a preference, in such circumstances? It cannot be done. Optional preferential voting in my opinion- I say this quite honestly- would work to the disadvantage of the Australian Labor Party, not to its advantage. I use the obvious example of the 2 parties which had substantial minority votes in the last election- the Australian Party and the Democratic Labor Party. 
I suggest that it is far more likely that DLP voters would follow a party ticket and cast a preferential vote than it is that persons voting for the Australia Party would indicate a preference. They are compelled at this stage to indicate a preference. In that circumstance I would think that optional preferential voting would work to the disadvantage, not to the advantage, of the Labor Party. The situation with regard to the Senate under the proposed system would be that in all but a very small number of cases the number of votes required to be cast would cover the candidates elected. This situation exists in Tasmania in that State's normal House of Assembly elections. And Tasmania is the only State which on a regular basis elects people other than those on the major party tickets. It appears to me that the fear of optional preferential voting is misguided and is based more on the advantage of political party rule than on the basis of what is a fair and reasonable system. 
The putting of the names of parties on ballot papers and the registration for that purpose of party names is a simplification of the systems which would give those people who do not get the benefit of how to vote cards some benefit in that  they  would know what candidates stood for. I hope u would also in time lead to cessation of the distribution of how-to-vote cards. I would suggest to any member who likes to think that we have a resources problem that the amount of paper that is wasted outside electoral booths in this country is fantastic and I suggest that waste is totally unnecessary. Even if we must have howtovote cards there should be some more simple way of using them than giving out 60,000, 180,000 or 200,000 in each electorate on an election day. It seems to me a tremendously wasteful process. 
I disagree with the proposition put forward by at least one honourable member that the distribution of these cards is a money-saving operation. I think it is a complete waste of resources to be printing useless how-to-vote cards. I would suggest that any system which makes it easier for people to identify and vote for the candidate or the parties which they choose is a system which advances the rights of people in a democracy. 
I finish my speech by repeating the point I commenced with. A system of electing people to the national Parliament can only be judged by the capacity which it provides for the person least capable of casting a vote to cast, without fear, a formal vote. That those people who tend to vote Labor are the most disadvantaged by a complicated electoral system is an accident which this Government's education policies, I hope, will shortly overcome. But the facts are that people are disadvantaged and are placed under stress by electoral laws which require them to undertake a too complicated system of voting, especially in Senate elections, and I believe that these amendments will assist greatly in simplifying the system so that all people will have their democratic right to vote, and vote formally, and will not have it taken away from them on a mere pointless technicality. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Because of insufficient time and the complexity of the inquiry, the Committee was not able to advise the Government on electoral matters in time for the conduct of the recent election for the Legislative Assembly. However, the Committee, after its own investigations, endorses the changes made by the Government for those elections. The Committee proposes that all 'State-type' legislation continue to be introduced into the Legislative Assembly. 
Constitutional development is a step by step forward movement and the next step in this process in the Territory is the granting of some executive responsibility to the Legislative Assembly. The Committee does not recommend the transfer of responsibility for all 'State-type' functions to the Territory Executive but proposes that functions of local significance be transferred as soon as possible and that, for the time being, functions of national concern be retained by the Australian Government. The proposals of the Committee are, in effect, that all 'State-type' functions be transferred to the Territory Executive, except that major functions such as rural land, mining, education, health, companies and the supreme court be retained by the Australian Government and other major functions such as roads, ports, fisheries, national parks and the police be shared. 
To implement the granting of executive responsibility as proposed, the Committee has made recommendations on funds to be made available to the Territory Executive, on the role of the Administrator and on the Public Service. The Committee recognises that the recommendations it makes will be the basis for immediate negotiations between the Australian Government and the Territory Executive. Furthermore, it points out that the Territory Executive should, as circumstances change, negotiate with the Australian Government for the transfer of additional functions. 
The Committee cannot stress strongly enough the need for consultation, co-operation and coordination between the national and Territory executives particularly in respect to 'State-type' functions retained by the Australian Government. Without such consultation, co-operation and co-ordination the success of the transfer of executive responsibility to the Legislative Assembly is extremely doubtful. The Committee also considers it fundamental that the Territory Executive deal only with the one Australian Government Minister who would have the executive responsibility for all 'State-type' functions retained by the Australian Government. This Minister, of course, would need to consult with his colleagues in the Australian Government. 
I thank all members of the Committee for their devotion to the task of compiling this report. I recommend the report to all honourable members. I also congratulate  Mr Boorman  and other members of the staff of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory for the dedicated and efficient manner in which they carried out their duties. 
-I have received a letter from the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  proposing that a definite matter of public importance be submitted to the House for discussion, namely: 
The inadequacies of the recent measures announced by the Government to solve the housing crisis. 
I call upon those members who approve of the proposed discussion to rise in their places. (More than the number of members required by the Standing Orders having risen in their places)- 
-Order! Could I be clear on the amendment? The copy which I have gives the year as 1975. The amendment just moved and read by the honourable member gives the year as 1974. 
A few moments ago the Treasurer made it clear, and I can see his point, that he is introducing a scheme here. He did not want to change the base amount of $4,000 in the first year but he said he would consider it in subsequent years. My amendment enables the House to be sure that this indexation of costs and incomes is to apply in subsequent years. I agree with what the Treasurer said in his response to my first amendment and I am asking him therefore to support this amendment, which merely states in other words the response that he gave to my first proposition. I think that he would immediately acknowledge that that is so. 
Because there is one other speaker who might like to say something, I sum up by saying that this is a scheme of penalties; I believe they are very severe- penalties. The principle of indexation applied to the spread of incomes would eliminate quite a number of those penalties and would tend to eliminate some of those that I have enumerated in these few minutes. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Garland's  amendment) stand part of the question. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
Professor Eckenfelder who is a consultant to the United Nations and Israel on water pollution, addressed the 6th Federal Convention (Theme: Man and Water) of the Australian Water and Wastewater Association in Melbourne at its opening on 30 April 1974. 'On the face of it, the problem does not look as bad as in other places but this is a country with most of its industry on the coastline, and because of this, now is the critical period. 
Unless you act now with tough legislation it will become as bad as other places, ' he said. 
The Professor, who is a member of a U.S. Government Committee to advise Congress on water pollution management said that new and tough legislation in the United States aimed at putting the cure for pollution back on to those who caused it. Industry had to find the best practical treatment for the problem by 1977 and had to come up with the best technology for re-use of water by 1 983. 'Although it is tough legislation, by 1985 we should have a non-polluted environment', he said and continued: 'Our lead has been followed by Canada, Japan and Western Europe. Now is the time for Australia to act. The main goal should be not to create polluted water and not to use water recklessly. The world water pollution problem is not irreversible. ' 
I want to say something about the River Murray Waters Bill because I think it indicates that the Government is determined to take measures to ensure proper conditions of work for the commissioners involved in the work of the River Murray Commission and also those who may join it in the future. I believe that these amendments will give protection and peace of mind to the staff of the River Murray Commission and will remove the ever-present fear that long retirements may bring severe financial problems. I commend that Bill to the House. 
-In the last couple of days I think the Opposition sought in fact to take from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board the power to take the action that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has advised that it should take. However, that is not the subject on which I rise to speak tonight. I am concerned with the attitude taken by the Victorian Government- I do not know whether it is repeated in other States- to the Regional Employment Development scheme. The scheme, introduced to provide employment for a number of people, was of necessity quickly drawn together and was commenced some weeks ago with a number of projects being approved. What concerns me is that a number of public statements have emanated from the Premier of Victoria in which he has indicated that unless he is able to dictate to whom the funds will be allocated, unless he personally is able to sign the cheques and, I assume, get the kudos- getting kudos seems to be the only thing that State governments are interested in nowadays- he will not allow the Victorian Government to participate in the scheme and may well attempt to prevent local government bodies which are subject to this control from participating in the scheme. 
That might be all right, but what in fact has occurred is that the Premier of Victoria, following applications and the granting of funds to the Victorian Forestry Commission in the Otway Shire- an amount of money has also been allocated to the Forestry Commission in the Corio Shire in respect of the You Yang national park for works costing some $45,000 in the first instance and $30,000 in the second instance- has advised the Forestry Commission in the case of one project which has reached the stage of recruiting labour that it is not allowed to utilise or to recruit that labour until the total funds have been received. 
I know of no instances in which the Victorian Government pays in advance the total amount of funds to its contractors or to anyone else. But, for the purposes of a political exercise, in order to achieve leverage, the Premier of Victoria refused one of his instrumentalities the right to recruit labour in a situation which would relieve unemployment and thus give the families of those people who would be employed the wherewithal to live. The Premier has used these people as political pawns in his game of gaining self-prestige. That is what it is all about- self-prestige for Victorian Ministers, who seem to have only one aim in life nowadays, and that is to see their names on plaques outside buildings and to get credit for expenditures which they have quite often publicly opposed prior to their being approved. This, in my opinion, is a serious situation in which a State government denies employment to people in order to put forward its own prejudiced political position. An amount of $45,000 was made available to the Forestry Commission in the Otway Shire some weeks ago. The recruitment of labour could have started this week. People could have been working this week but for a veto imposed by the State Premier of Victoria until further notice, and 'until further notice' means until he is able to impose on the Federal Government his demand that his public works program which he cannot finance or will not finance- one or the other- be met by the Federal Government. This fits into a pattern. When the Federal Government asked the States for prices powers temporarily he offered to sell them to the Federal Government collectively for $300m. Now what he is doing is saying: 'I am prepared to let people work in my State instrumentalities provided you give me the money for my public works'. 
-Is it the wish of the Committee to take the Bill as a whole? 
-The question is: 
That the question be now put 
-The question is: That the question be now put. Those of that opinion say 'aye', to the contrary 'no'. I think the ayes have it. The question now is that clause 8 be agreed to. 
-Order! The time allotted for the remaining stages of the Bill has expired. 
Question put: 
That the remaining clauses of the Bill be agreed to and that the Bill be reported without amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Prior to the recognition of the U.S.S.R. as the effective government of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania, what arrangements existed between those countries and Australia for (a) extradition, (b) travel to those countries by Australian citizens and (c) application for residence in Australia. 
Does recognition by Australia mean support of the particular government. 
Which Government was recognised as the government of the Baltic States prior to the recognition of the U.S.S.R. as the effective government. 
I want to raise briefly a matter this morning which is of great concern to me. During recent weeks some $45,000 was allocated to the Forestry Commission under the RED scheme for use in the Otways for the employment of unemployed persons and $30,000 for use in the You-yangs national park for similar work. The work will have the effect of reducing the bush fire danger and also of employing about 50 persons. Regrettably, after the arrangements had been agreed to and at a time when the district employment officer at Geelong had arranged for employment to commence he was told by the district forestry officer that he was not allowed to put people on because the Premier of Victoria had placed a veto on the use of the funds to employ persons under the RED scheme. This means that 30 people at the moment and possibly 50 people who could be employed are now unemployed. Their families are being penalised by the actions of the Premier of Victoria who is acting for a purely political motive to advance some selfinterest program of his own. I would suggest that this is a cruel way for a State Premier to act. He is denying people the wherewithal to keep their families purely to advance his own political ends. At the same time he is also seriously increasing the bush fire risk. I hope that the Premier will show that he is a person of the type which he so often claims and withdraws this decision which is affecting these unemployed persons. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MartinOrder! It is now 15 minutes to 1 o'clock. In accordance with standing order 106 the debate is interrupted and I put the question: 

That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Clause 3 at the end of sub-clause (3) add: 'but if the Treasurer having regard to the availability of advances from the State branches of the banks nominated in the Schedule and having regard to the demand for housing advances in the States so directs, the amounts set opposite the name of a bank in the Schedule, shall to the extent specified by him be loaned by the bank in the State or States specified by him in such direction '. 
That merely says of an amount of money which, for example, is given to the Commonwealth Savings Bank throughout Australia- it is $56.2m- for the dissemination of those funds throughout the States, that regard shall be had to the non-availability of savings bank funds in such States. Of course I am referring in the context of my previous speech to Queensland and New South Wales. This is appropriate because in many cases these are welfare funds and they are designed to go to the area where they are needed most. The Treasurer has agreed to abide by that principle without altering the destination of that money from the head office of the banks. My second amendment refers to sub-clause (2) of clause 4 which reads: 
Where the Treasurer gives a direction under subsection ( I ) with respect to a bank, the Treasurer, having regard to the proportions in which the sum of the amounts specified in the Schedule is allocated among the banks named in the Schedule, may also direct that the amounts specified in the Schedule opposite to the names of some or all of the other banks shall be deemed to be increased by such specified amounts as the Treasurer thinks fit in consequence of that first-mentioned direction and having regard to subsection 3 (4). 
I move: 
In clause 4 sub-clause (2), after 'Schedule' insert 'and having regard to the availability of advances from the banks nominated in the Schedule for housing through the offices of those banks in the States, and having regard to the demand for housing advances in the States'. 
This simply states very sensitively and sensibly that the Government has said that where a bank has been unable to use the funds by March 1975 it will seek to reallocate those funds to other banks according to the requirements of the Schedule. I am asking that in the reallocation of those funds, if there is more of a shortfall in some States than in others and if that has persisted even at that date, extra emphasis be given to those States for these purposes. It is desirable that this be done and it ought to be done. 
Finally let me say that one of the factors that needs to be noted in terms of savings bank funds available for housing is the wonderful performance in Victoria which is, I believe, not unrelated to the existence of the State Savings Bank of Victoria. The annual report of the State Savings Bank of Victoria had this to say: 
When substantial increases in a range of interest rates were announced in September 1973, it was requested that savings bank should limit increases in housing loan rates to 1 per cent per annum. While realising that such action would adversely affect the profitability of a large segment of its investments the Bank reacted immediately to the social implications of the request and continued to lend strongly for housing at the interest rates suggested. 
That action is unfortunately in stark contrast with the activities of the Commonwealth Savings Bank. I ask the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  to consider those principles. I ask that he publicly accept on behalf of the Treasurer that they be part of the program for the allocation of the funds as between :he banks and the States. 
-Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="092131197411282_98_4.jpg"></graphic>

I think that it can be said that this situation poses a great challenge to the AWC in the present circumstances. It will, be a test of the propositions that it has put forward in respect of marketing proposals. It may be good luck in some ways and bad luck in others. It may be good luck in that it will be a test of the soundness of its theories. If it succeeds in these circumstances it is probable that it can succeed in others less difficult. But it could be considered unlucky because the Corporation walked straight into an almost crisis situation. 
One of the quite unnecessary provisions of the new legislation is that for the new member provided for in this clause because it is virtually a vote of no confidence in the present members of the Australian Wool Corporation. The House will well remember the extraordinary attack launched by the member for Eden-Monaro and the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  on present members of the Corporation not so long ago. I cannot help thinking that it was no coincidence that the market promptly fell after that attack. It was an unprincipled attack for political purposes and it put at risk Australia's industry. There is no question that the remarks of the honourable member for EdenMonaro and of the Minister for Northern Development in this House were picked up by the wool industry, not only in Australia but throughout the world. No wonder a regrettable lack of confidence on the part of the wool trade began to appear. As a member of this House, and incidentally as a wool grower, I regret that occasion because that was criticism on the basest personal grounds. No wonder the confidence of the wool trade took a nose-dive after that. The wool growers will not soon forget the statements made in the House by those honourable members. 
The Opposition stands by the present members of the Corporation and the present method of their appointment. We will not stand by and see unjustified personal attacks and denigration of the present members lead to their replacement on terms dictated by the Government- a government which has already demonstrated its total hostility to primary industry. There are many other major issues which I would like to canvass in the course of the debate on this Bill, such as the establishment of the Market Support Trust Account and the necessity for prior approval in writing from the Australian Wool Industry Conference before the Minister uses wool growers' money for any purposes. I regret that time will not allow me in canvassing this clause to cover those points as well. Our amendment to clause S will turn this Bill into a sensible piece of legislation of benefit to the wool industry as a whole and wool growers in particular. That above all else is the objective of members on this side of the House. I move: 
Delete the clause. 
-The amendment would have been circulated to members of the House when the message came from the Senate. 
As I mentioned in this House when the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  proposed a similar amendment on behalf of the Opposition, we are not prepared to accept an extension of the period to 5 yean. We are certainly not prepared to do so at this point of time. As honourable members would understand, the Government is carrying on a national inquiry into programs whereby accommodation is provided for the aged. That inquiry not only has to report to us on those programs and how they perform but also has to indicate to us alternative ways of providing more successfully accommodation services for the aged. This is the first time in more than 2 decades during which the Australian government has been involved in the provision of accommodation for the aged that there has been any review of this major program. I suggest that it has been a serious defect, which persisted until this Government came into office, that there has been a total absence of monitoring the evaluation of the progress of various types of programs in the field of welfare. 
I think honourable members would recognise from what I have said in this House from time to time that this Government has been developing systems of monitoring an evaluation of many of its welfare programs and intends to expand this activity to a comprehensive stage. We want to know whether what we are doing is relevant when we commence doing it and whether it is still relevant on some future occasion. It may well have been that when the programs to which I am referring were first introduced they were the most relevant and represented a comprehensive list of needs in terms of accommodation services for the aged. But that may not be so now. On the other hand, it may be so. I am not saying that it is or that it is not. My own feeling is that more needs to be done. I have no intention at all of pre-empting the valuable work of that committee of inquiry, which has been working for several months now, by making some sort of precipitate decision when we are on the eve of receiving the report from that committee of inquiry. The report, in common with reports I have received, will be tabled in this Parliament and will be available for discussion by members of this House, by members of the Senate, and by members of the community. From this discussion we hope to be able to make firm decisions about the direction we will be taking in the future in the provision of accommodation for the aged. 
That then very simply is the reason that we are not prepared to accept this amendment which is proposed by the Senate and which was rejected by this House. What I am saying is that, weighing up all the circumstances, it is better to wait the short time involved until we receive this report. The report may recommend against an extension- I repeat that it may recommend against an extension- of this program. It may very well recommend an extension of it. I do not know. But if it recommends against an extension of the program and we took action now, I think it would be quite unwise action and the results of it would be imposed upon us for an unnecessary period into the future. If it recommends for an extension this program will be continued into 1 975. 1 repeat that we will have the report before the end of this year. The Parliament will then be able to consider the program and we will be able to make decisions in plenty of time. It is for those reasons that I have to advise the Committee that we are not prepared to accept the amendment proposed by the Senate. 
-Is it the wish of the House to have a general debate covering the 3 measures? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
-No, we are in Committee on the States Grants (Technical and Further Education) Bill. 
It is interesting that the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  chose one clause of the Kangan report to summarise the recommendations made by that Committee, namely the section of the report that spoke of technical education as being something separate and equal to the other branches of tertiary education. This is the essence of the report. It underlines the need for the report and the legislation which is now before us. Most people involved in technical education to whom I have spoken feel very strongly that technical and further education should be separated from other forms of education in the State field. In most states technical and further education is wrapped up with secondary education. As a result the technical and further education sector of education feels- I think quite rightly- disadvantaged. We can see the measure of their disadvantage by comparing those things which they have in common with the other branches of education, for example, by comparing the facilities that technical schools have with the facilities of secondary schools and tertiary institutions. 
We have no quarrel with the concepts of the Kangan report. We feel quite strongly that there is a need for something to be done about technical education. We believe that this sector of education ought rightly to be regarded as an arm of tertiary education, as clearly it is. It deals with people who are the same age as those people who are receiving what is normally called tertiary education. It fits people for their careers which they will undertake later in life and so on. It is right that it should be divorced from the secondary education area. 
The technical area has fared badly compared with the academic area over a great many years. It has been called a Cinderella, a poor cousin and so on it this debate. It is, however, very diverse in nature. It is for this reason that I feel very strongly it should be administered as near as is humanly possible to those who are receiving the education. It should not be administered from Canberra. 
I take as an example only the Western Australian School of Mines. Where does this School fit into the system? It is obviously a branch of technical education. It is obviously a branch of tertiary education. It can be fitted into the system - 
Coming to the specific provisions of the Bill, I wish only to reply to the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Dawkins)  and point out that in comparing the moneys allocated to technical education over the years- I do not deny for a moment that there is a substantial increase- the honourable member resorted to a trick which is becoming very common from the Government side of the Committee. In referring to the change in the levels of expenditure in given areas, he made no reference to the reduction in general State grants. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
-Yes. During his remarks, the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  suggested that I had indicated that I would resign from the Australian Labor Party if certain policies were not changed. That statement is not correct. I have written to Ministers on a number of occasions expressing my concern about certain policies, especially round about the middle of this year. (Opposition members interjecting)- 
-This is rather serious. I suggest that if members of the Opposition think that it is a joke they should just treat it that way. I wrote complaining about certain policies relating to structural adjustment. Whether interpretations were wrong or otherwise, firms were told that they could be considered for compensation only if they closed their factories. I repeat that I wrote letters complaining bitterly about that. That policy has now been reversed and firms are receiving assistance in order to carry on. Also, loans for structural adjustment are being made available under Bills passed through this Parliament in the last few weeks. 
-The area in which I have been misrepresented is the indication that I would resign from the Australian Labor Party. That could have the effect of bringing about a change of Government and that would be a tragedy for Australia. 
-Is the amendment seconded? 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="092131197412041_65_0.jpg"></graphic>

Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In  Committee 
The Bill. 
-In accordance with the order of the House I propose the question: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
-We have just listened to an exposition of apologies for an unconstitutional and unthinkable proposition which has been put by the New South Wales Government. Since the introduction of proportional representation for elections to the Senate all vacancies have been filled by the Parliament of the Senate appointing a member of the political party from which the person who has ceased office belonged. There have been numerous resignations and appointments. One which comes to mind involved  Mr Justice  Spicer. He was Attorney-General of Australia. He put legislation through this Parliament to set up the Industrial Court and then resigned from the Senate to become the first Chief Justice of that court. The attacks on the democratic system which have been made by the Parties opposite, since they were denied what they look upon as their divine right to govern, would cause concern in some of the least democratic countries if they occurred. A clear campaign is being mounted in this country in the State parliaments and in this Parliament to end democratic government for ever in Australia. That campaign is being led by the Country Party. The Liberal Party, which has most to lose in such an event, is being led by the nose. Although, in Queensland, elections no longer take place to elect governments. There is no way in which governments can be changed in Queensland by the electoral process. Such is the manipulation of the electoral laws in Queensland that the present Premier and his Party could win an absolute majority in the Queensland Parliament with 33 per cent of the total votes in that state. 
Motion (by  Dr Forbes)  put: 
That the honourable member for Corio be not further heard. 
The House divided:  (Mr Speaker- Hon. J. F. Cope) 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the extremely dangerous nature of sections of the Hume Highway. 
If so, has he discussed the condition of the road with the State Ministers concerned. 
Has any consideration been given to limiting traffic on this Highway until it is in a safe condition. 
What action is planned to provide a road between Albury and Sydney which is safe for vehicles. 
-We have just heard from a member of the Opposition a speech which is quite typical of the speeches coming from the Opposition. It would appear that the Opposition believes that what the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  said in this House at the close of the last session is what Parliament is all about. The honourable member for Boothby said on that occasion, when challenged by an honourable member from this side of the House, that it was true that he wished to smear under privilege. That is what we have just listened to. I think it is about time that someone exposed the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in this House. Some time ago as a Minister he came to my electorate to open an institution. While there he made a statement which was totally and utterly untrue and ruthlessly exploited people who needed help. I thought at the time that the honourable member, who was then a Minister, would give help. As a last minute parting gesture the Minister off the top of his head made a statement that space had been allocated for a rehabilitation centre in Geelong on the 3rd floor of a new Commonwealth building which was being constructed. That statement was denied by the Minister then responsible for Commonwealth buildings in answer to a question asked in the Senate some weeks later. The honourable member made a misleading statement which misled people needing rehabilitation services in the area. 
It is unfortunate that this Parliament is denigrated by statements such as we have just heard. The history of courts in Australia, especially the major courts, has been one of appointment of men with political experience. The history of courts in Australia is one of men acting in those courts in a responsible manner and integrity irrespective of the political background from which they have come. I believe that an attempt to denigrate a judge in advance by using what is a technicality in the Standing Orders of this House is a denial of the traditions of Parliament. There are 2 sets of rules in Australia in relation to the appointment of men with political experience to judicial office. It is good, holy and wholesome for members of the conservative parties to be appointed to high judicial office. The list of members of Parliament who have been so appointed is long and stands examination. I do not think that there is a great deal of question about the performance of those men when they have left die Parliament. But I think it is fair to say that the performances of some of those men in Parliament would not have been such as would have led to trust in their performances by the Opposition parties. 
I mentioned 2 members of Parliament who went to the industrial court, one of whom was a consistent attacker of the trade unions in this Parliament and almost the equal in his hatred for them of the honourable member for Mackellar. But there is no question now about his performance as a judge; I only question his performance as a politician. No one would say that the late  Dr Evatt  was not a controversial politician. He was possibly one of the most effervescent politicians in the history of this country. But as a judge his judicial record was beyond question.  Mr Justice  McTiernan, who was a member of Parliament, was appointed to the High Court under what must be considered to be controversial conditions. He was a politician when he was appointed exactly the same as was  Senator Murphy-  nothing more. 
-An eminent jurist? One cannot be a jurist,  Sir, unless  one is a judge. He was a politician who was appointed under the most- I would say- sensational circumstances. But no one has challenged his judicial record thereafter. Whilst a tradition exists of appointment of men to courts from political office the political opinions of those men must be the subject of controversy. But let us get away from this situation where it is said to be good for conservative politicians to go on to courts but bad for nonconservative politicians to go on to courts. The courts are not an arm of the political arena. They are an area in which the judgments of men based on their legal training prevail. If we are to suggest that only conservative politicians have good judgment we are saying that the nation is not entitled to democratic government at all, in or outside of the courts. 
-That was a political act, not a judicial act. That act was no different from some of the acts which the previous Government took against trade union members. It is good and holy to attack trade unionists- that is all right. It is only when one attacks the traditions of the conservative parties that one is wrong in this country. The honourable member for Mackellar is attacking the basis of Parliament when he says that a representative from a State in which the Government party has a minority representation in this Parliament is not entitled to be considered as a representative. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! It is now 12.45 p.m., and in accordance with standing order 106 the debate is interrupted. The original question was that grievances be noted. To this the honourable member for Mackellar has moved an amendment to add certain words. The question is: "That the word proposed to be added be so added'. All those of that opinion say 'aye', of the contrary 'no'. I think the 'noes ' have it. Is a division required? 
Opposition members- Yes. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Mr Wentworths amendment)  be so added. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker. 
-Yes. I did not say that the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  had smeared me. I said that the honourable member for Boothby had indicated in this House that he wished to smear under privilege. The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  asked a straight question of the honourable member when he was sitting at the table. It was during a division and therefore it would not be recorded, but every member of this House heard it. The honourable member for Batman asked him if he wished to smear under privilege and the honourable member for Boothby said: 'Yes, that is what I want to do.' It was during a division,  Mr Speaker,  and every member of the House heard it. 
-There is an old saying: 'Methinks he doth protest too much'. I think that that applies to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt).  He cited one passage of the Bill which, in his opinion, is completely uninterpretable and unreasonable. The section and the wording of it were contained in the Act during the time when he administered it. My memory does not indicate any attempt by him to remove that section of the Electoral Act during the numerous amendments which he introduced into this House and, if I may add, subsequently voted against when they were introduced into this House again by this Government, not having been passed by a previous Parliament. It appears to me that what is being said in this debate is that it is better for persons to use financial influence on candidates and members in secret than it would be to have funds and sources of funds disclosed in order that, where there is a suggestion of influence or a suggestion of some decision made which may benefit a large contributor, there is an open situation where everyone will know exactly what has happened. It is unfortunate that Australian politics are becoming a continuing source of innuendo about political funding. The Australian Country Party is one of the victims of this and I would have thought that its members would be very happy to see this situation totally eliminated. 
-The trade unions contribute to the Australian Labor Party. They present balance sheets to their members, and their contributions are public knowledge and are used by our political opponents whenever they feel there is some advantage in using those contributions for political purposes. What the Opposition is saying is that they should be public knowledge but that the contributors to the Opposition's funds who may or may not derive benefit from those contributions are entitled to make their contributions in secrecy. The Electoral Act has been described as an undemocratic Act. It has been described as a removal of the rights of secrecy. I suggest that there are certain things which are public knowledge. Under the existing Act, ostensibly a candidate is required to disclose his expenditures on an election, but it is now said that he should not be required to disclose where the funds to cover those expenditures came from. 
The Canadian Parliament unanimously- with the support of all members and all parties in that Parliament- recently passed legislation which was almost identical in form to the legislation being proposed to this Parliament today in the disclosure of funds. It appears that in Canada all political parties believe that there is benefit in the disclosure of funds. In the United States of America, whose Constitution enshrines the domocratic rights of the individual to an extent which is almost beyond belief in a modern society and which is the cause of some problems in that country, the rights of the individual are totally protected and there is no question that the Supreme Court of the United States would upset any attempt to take away from any individual his rights of secret ballot and his rights to participate properly in an election. 
In the United States political contributions are regulated by the Federal Corrupt Practices Act. That Act applies to a candidate for election to Congress or to a political party which seeks to influence any two or more States in an election for Federal office. The Act defines a contribution as including a gift, subscription, loan, advance or deposit of moneys or anything of value and includes a contract, promise or agreement, whether or not legally enforceable, to make contributions. That is a fairly wide sweeping clause. It is applied to organisations promoting candidates for the Congress of the United States. I take it that if that sort of thing were proposed here it would be said to constitute a denial of the individual's rights and a denial of the rights to secrecy of the ballot. But apparently this provision is upheld by the Supreme Court of the United States and does not contravene the Bill of Rights section of that country's Constitution. I would add that the Treasurer of a political committee is required to keep an account of all contributions made to or for the committee, and a person who receives a contribution for a political committee must account to the Treasurer for the contribution. 
I wish to make another comment on this point. Much of the present political problems which are besetting the United States Congress and the presidency arise from the non-disclosure of political campaign contributions- from keeping such campaign contributions secret. In the United States it is thought that if a person makes a large contribution to a political campaign fund and seeks to hide that contribution- to keep it secret- there must be some ulterior motive behind it. In Australia there is little or no evidence of corrupt practices in Australian politics, but there are repeated suspicions and innuendoes about certain organisations which benefit substantially from certain political parties taking office. It is not unreasonable to protect both the political parties and the contributor by ensuring that any contribution made will be known, and publicly known. 
I presume it was the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who mentioned the little lady who raffled the eggs. If I may say so, if the little lady who raffled the eggs had contravened the Commonwealth Electoral Act and it contained the penalties which were enshrined in it during the period when the honourable member for Gwydir was the Minister she would have been placed in gaol for almost all of the offences covered by the Act. The judge who heard the case would not even have a discretion; she would have to go to gaol. The Act did not provide for monetary fines to cover the majority of penalties. 
The honourable gentleman may say that. I suggest that he looks at the scale of penalties in the Commonwealth Electoral Act and looks at the amendments to the Act that we proposed to this House not so long ago. The Commonwealth Electoral Act, as it now stands, contains a provision by which no person who has contested an election to this House in the last five or six elections and where any scale of competition for the seat has taken place can abide. The Act sets a maximum expenditure of $500 on the election campaign of any candidate for office in the Federal Parliament. The average size of electorates in my State, and I suppose in the Commonwealth, is in excess of 60 000 people. I could not have printed and distributed how to vote cards, let alone any other form of election material, for that price at this time. Yet we are confronted with the situation that that state of affairs is to continue. 
The Electoral Act contains a number of other provisions, but the most important provisions are the ones dealing with the disclosure of funds and the regulation of expenditure. Both of these provisions have a number of influences. The disclosure of funds ensures that no person will be giving funds to candidates in the hope of receiving future benefits. Such a person cannot hope for secrecy. The amount of money, whatever it may be, must be disclosed. The penalties for nondisclosure are high, but they are maximum penalties to be imposed at the discretion of the court. If the penalties are not high, the stakes are high, and unless the penalty matches the possible gain it can become worthwhile to breach the law and thus achieve an end which could have a profitability far beyond any monetary penalty which may be applied. I hope that the members of this House will have sufficient confidence in themselves and the Australian electorate to vote for a measure which will take away from elections in Australia, from governments in Australia, the continued innuendo which must follow if substantial contributions to election funds are reputed to be from sources which could receive substantial benefits in return. 
-The United States is in all sorts of electoral troubles. 
-If the honourable gentleman really believes it should continue to be open for people to buy political influence, I will give the honourable member one instance of that type of thing in Australia. I refer to the period immediately before the 1961 elections when the then Government extended the 2 airlines agreement in Australia for a period of 14 years to give it a currency of 17 years in order to protect the interests of the private operator who was a party to the airlines agreement. By co-incidence or otherwise, the private operator spent considerable sums of money on newspaper advertisements in support of the Government of the day. The case to which I refer is known, so there is nothing dishonest about it. But the fact that that sort of thing is happening in private- and it does happen- is quite clearly something which should be known by the Australian electorate. 

 Mr SCHOLES I said that that instance is open; obviously there are other cases which are not open. I would mention another factor which is equally important. It has been said, by innuendo or otherwise, that certain political organisations have promised to give financial benefit to certain overseas mining and mineral companies. 
-If the honourable gentleman does not know what is going on in the country I really do not think his education is my responsibility. The fact is that allegations have been made and are repeatedly made - 
-They may well have been justly made, but the fact of the matter is that if a political party is reputed to be getting secret contributions from a source and in return is publicly offering that source contributions from public funds in the form of subsidies, suspicion must exist. If the public disclosure of contributions to political parties is required, no suspicion can exist. It is as simple as that. It is possible in this day to buy electoral victory. It is possible to spend sums of money in such proportions so as to deny totally the democratic process. If the Press is freely available to one political party and denied to another, as happens in some areas of Australia, if unlimited funds to purchase television time are available to one candidate and not available to another, a democratic expression of the electorate is not possible. 
-I will lay odds that the Labor Party did not spend anywhere near as much as did the Country Party. 
-No, but it got more votes than the Country Party. I think the honourable member ought to acknowledge that fact. The only thing that it did not get is the seats. That is another matter that is not covered by this - 
Yes, but we just do not get the opportunity because Labor voters get only one vote and Country Party voters in Queensland get five. Metropolitan people in Queensland are second class citizens. Everywhere in Australia the Country Party would have that the case. It believes that people who live in the cities are not entitled to a full vote. That is the practised policy, it is in legislative effect in every State of Australia where the Country Party exercises influence and it is currently in effect in this Parliament under the existing boundaries. 
I support this Bill. I believe that it will have a very good influence on this Parliament and will ensure not only that no political party can be accused of secret deals and secret funds but also it will ensure that no person can be misled into believing that by making secret contributions to a political party he can buy influence. I think they are both important aspects which must be dealt with and eliminated if possible. Amendments of this nature may or may not advantage political parties. I believe that these amendments will be to the advantage of no one. But they will be of advantage to the electoral system and to the democratic process itself. This requirement is not something which does not exist anywhere else; it is a provision in almost every democratically elected Parliament with which we would like to compare ourselves. The disclosure of the source of funds is required under Canadian law. The honourable member for Gwydir would hardly describe that country as totalitarian. It is a requirement of the law of the United States and I believe that it should be a requirement of the law of Australia. 
-The honourable member's time has expired. 
-This is a minor proposal to amend the Constitution. 
There are far more substantial propositions which could be put with some validity to amend the Constitution. All that is proposed by this amending legislation is that elections for the 2 Houses of this Parliament shall be held on the same day on each occasion that such elections take place. The honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  made great play of reference in the Bill to casual vacancies. The only alteration proposed to be made by this Bill as regards casual vacancies is to bring the terms of the section of the Constitution relating to persons appointed to fill casual vacancies into line with the terms of office of senators who would be elected under the other provisions of the Constitution proposed to be altered by this Bill. I would have thought that even in such a light-hearted and obviously less than convincing opposition to the Bill the honourable gentleman would not have expected the Government to exclude from the Bill provisions under which senators filling casual vacancies would be elected to serve the same periods set down for those persons whom they were replacing. 
It is difficult to understand why the Opposition feels that it has some political benefit to gain by the maintenance of a situation not envisaged by the Constitution but which occurs periodically because of electoral accidents in which elections for each House take place at different times, as has been the case since 1963 with the exception of a double dissolution which did not bring the Houses back into line. It is difficult to know why the Opposition is afraid of bringing elections for the Houses back into line. Surely it is a reasonable proposition that the 2 Houses of the Parliament of Australia should be elected at the same time when the issues before the people are over who should govern the country and of questioning the administration, whoever it may be. 
Single Senate elections are about nothing. I think it should be clearly understood that they are about nothing. Of the 60 members of the Senate 48 have been nominated by political parties and there was nothing the electors could do to prevent their election. That means that in any single election for half the Senate 24 positions in the Senate- it may vary by one but no more in any given election- are filled at the time of the close of nominations and the election is conducted for the position of one senator for each State. If there is nothing at stake other than the election of senators, the election is, as I said before, about nothing. It tends to be an inconsequential election. It is used as a by-election situation. It tends to have little relevance to the realities of politics in Australia and creates a situation in which the Senate is composed of persons who do not reflect the opinions of the electorate as to who should govern the country. That is all right if the Senate accepts its role as a House of review and if the Senate accepts that governments elected at the time when government is on the line are entitled to govern. That convention has been observed for 73 or 74 years. It is no longer observed by the Opposition parties in this House. They have now clearly established that they do not believe that the tenure of office of governments elected to govern has any relevance whatsoever where it interferes with the personal ambitions of men whose greed for power would destroy the whole parliamentary system if necessary. 
We are talking about an amendment to the Constitution which will ensure that each time there is an election for the House of Representatives half the members of the Senate will retire. The original drafting of the Constitution envisages that the terms of senators will be twice that of a member of the House of Representatives. It is stated in years- 3 years and 6 years. Under the proposed alteration it would be stated purely in terms of 2 parliaments or one parliament. Is anyone in this House prepared to stand up and say that if the Houses came into line again as a result of an election for the House of Representatives between 1 July next and 1 July 1976 this would be a blow to the Senate, would create a situation in which the Senate's independence would be destroyed or would prevent the Senate from functioning properly? Of course not. That situation has occurred in the majority of elections for the 2 Houses in this country. Why does the Opposition wish to impose on the electorate an election in 2 years out of every 3 years which is what has been occurring in recent years in Australiaand I am talking about Federal elections only? 
In Vittoria between 1949 and 1974 there were 25 separate elections for parliaments covering the whole of that State. In 25 years there were 25 elections. The Victorian Parliament, controlled by members of the Liberal Party, has since 196 1 consistently passed special legislation in order to circumvent the Constitution of that State, which requires that the Upper House should be elected at a different time to the lower House, in order that conjoint elections can take place. Both Houses of the Victorian Parliament are now always elected on the same day by resolution of Houses of Parliament in which the Liberal Party has an absolute majority, but in this Parliament for some short term temporary political gain the Opposition wishes to preserve ad infinitum a situation in which one House at a time can be elected and elections are held for part of the Federal Parliament in 2 years out of every 3 years. 
I think it is worth while reading to the House, so that we can clearly understand exactly what the Opposition is about, the case which was put at the last referendum against simultaneous elections for the 2 Houses of Parliament. These are the points put forward, I presume by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  as a rational, reasoned case against simultaneous elections: 
This so-called Simultaneous Elections referendum is the first one of four which the Government is holding with the Senate elections, and in each one the Government has deliberately attempted to mislead you. 
I do not see what could possibly be said to be misleading in our saying that we are holding a referendum in relation to simultaneous elections when in fact that is exactly what we are doing. Nevertheless, the Liberal Party's case continues: 
The Government also hopes these referendums will also put up a smokescreen over the central issues . . .: runaway inflation, absurdly high interest rates, staggering tax payments, irresponsible government spending, a public service growing like Topsy. 
That is the case put against the referendum. It is purely a statement of political sloganising which was distributed for that purpose and that purpose only. No serious attempt was made to rationalise the reasons that the elections for one House of the Parliament should be held at a time different from the elections of the other. I do not know whether the Liberal Party still has a commitment to try to ensure the election of Democratic Labor Party senators to the Senate. Certainly any commitment it had last May was dishonoured, and dishonoured quite openly, to the quite obvious anguish of former  Senator McManus.  But that such commitments are entered into could be one of the reasons for the present proposal. I do not want to continue on at great length on this aspect. The Bill proposes a simple alteration to the Constitution. The result of its passage will be that the elections for both Houses of this Parliament will be for evermore held at the same time and will not be conducted on the patchwork basis where sometimes simultaneous elections occur because of political accidents and at other times they do not. 
-There is money involved, but I do not think that is relevant to the real argument that elections should be conducted for both Houses of this Parliament on the same day. Elections for both Houses in Queensland are held on the same day. They do not bother to elect any members for one of the Houses because they do not consider it necessary to have an upper House. But they do hold elections up there, not to elect a government but to elect members. 
The opposition to this Bill is, I believe, bordering on political irresponsiblity. I believe that it is an opposition of the moment, designed to oppose for the sake of opposing and for no other reason. I do not believe that the power, the effectiveness or the activities of the Senate will be in any way altered by the proposed amendment to the Constitution. I would suggest to members of the Opposition that they would be far better spending their time in trying to maintain the Senate as an elected House of the Parliament whose members represent the wishes of the people of the various States who elect them. They would do far better to put their time into that sort of activity than they would in trying to carry on a facade of independent separate elections, whilst in one State of Australia we have at the moment a situation in which one million voters are about to be disfranchised purely for the purpose of satisfying the political needs of the Liberal Party. 
-Order! The honourable member for Wannon will remain silent. 
Workers Union. But the word ' and ' is the important one. There is a provision under the rules of the AMWU and of aU unions which are registered under the Act for a secret postal ballot. Any individual member of the union has the right to ask for a postal ballot and he has to be given it. I know of no case where a registered union has ever refused a member the right to have a vote recorded by secret postal ballot. The honourable member for Balaclava who made, as he usually does on matters such as this, a very thoughtful contribution, I think was a little astray when he said that he feared that there would be victimisation of the 250 members who might petition for a secret ballot or for an officially controlled ballot. I am sure that it could not have been the honourable member for Balaclava who said that; it must have been the honourable member for Wannon, because the honourable member for Balaclava would have known that when a person signs a petition for an officially conducted ballot, there is no way in which any official of the union can discover the names of the persons who signed the petition for an officially conducted ballot. 
-Is leave granted? 
-We are dealing with amendments. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether certain major trading banks are informing their customers that they cannot provide financial accommodation because of the refusal of the Government to increase liquidity. &lt; 
Have major banks been investing their liquid funds in short term Government notes over recent months. 
Did any banks use any of the statutory reserve deposit releases in this way. 
) Ha ve banks a large pan of their funds tied up in speculative land and building ventures. 
Are certain banks using public relations practices to hide the results of their own speculative activities. 
-Order! We are discussing the definitions and 2 other clauses- one dealing with the name of the Bill and the other with the date of operation of the Bill. I think that makes it a fairly narrow debate. I do not think that the sub-headings of the definitions clause open up the Bill for a broad debate on the persons named in the Bill. 
Previously in this House I have attacked a financial journalist. I think it is important we should note that journalists make very broad attacks on parliamentarians. We should also remember the great influence that journalists, particularly financial journalists, in this instance, have upon the kinds of shares people buy and the kinds of investments people make. In speaking about financial journalists, I congratulate the financial journalist in the 'Financial Review', who writes under the name of 'Chanticleer', for his exposure of some companies which are attempting to lure people into depositing or investing money with them. I commend to the House the clauses that we are considering. 
-Is the motion seconded? 
-I will continue to act as Deputy Speaker in the same way as I have always acted as Deputy Speaker. 
-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
-I thank the House for the honour of electing me  Speaker.  In doing so, I would say that I will endeavour to perform the duties of  Speaker  in the best traditions of this House as impartially as I know how, and I will seek at all times to maintain the dignity of this chamber.  (Mr Speaker having seated himself in the chair) 
-Order! I have to report that accompanied by honourable members I this day proceeded to the Library of the Parliament and presented myself to His Excellency the Administrator as the choice of the House and that His Excellency was kind enough to congratulate me on my election to the office of Speaker. 
-We are debating the estimates for the Parliament. In most cases I am responsible for those estimates. For that reason I am replying in this debate. Honourable members have raised a number of matters relating to these estimates and also matters relating to the procedures and the future of the House. I hope to comment on some of those matters in the time available. The matter of accommodation in the House was mentioned by the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr MacPhee)  and by other members. I agree with the comments made by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  that this is an archaic building which is not capable of functioning in any modern sense. I am aware that there is a need for a minimum of 32 additional offices in order to provide single office accommodation for each member of the Parliament. 
Some of the previous additions to the House were made with very little foresight and the offices are extremely small and are certainly not suitable for future development as offices for members or for any other purpose. Submissions have been made for extensions to the building to provide for additional office accommodation within the House. 
It is not only members' accommodation which is a matter of concern; I think honourable members ought to realise that most other people who work in this House also are functioning under extreme disabilities. It concerns me that every time mention is made of improving facilities in this House we have myriads of comment from the gentlemen in the Press Gallery about members' improving their own accommodation. Possibly the worst accommodation in this building is that which is occupied by the gentlemen of the Press. If the Parliament did the right thing by the gentlemen of the Press it would ask them to vacate their accommodation because the place is most likely a fire hazard. 
Accommodation in the kitchens and other parts at the rear of the building where a considerable number of the staff of the Parliament work is an absolute disgrace to the national Parliament of Australia and needs to be renewed as a matter of urgency. Unfortunately, because of the situation in regard to the allocation of funds- it does not matter who happens to be in power- any money that may be left over goes to the Par.liamentary building. Money that is spent on Par.liament is always portrayed as a waste of money. Conditions in this building have to be seen to be believed they have to be seen in their entirety by someone who has seen other buildings and knows the conditions under which other people work. 
I am the person responsible for maintenance of part of this bunding, and I say this advisedly: I believe that funds must be allocated to improve this building, but I believe also that the building is not capable of being adapted to meet the future requirements of the Parliament of Australia. A new parliament house, if work on it started now, would take 15 years to complete. So there will have to be patching up operations within this building. They ought to be done now, if not to improve the facilities of members then to make the conditions under which the staff in the building work suitable for employment and in keeping with the expectations which an employer should be able to satisfy in his employees. 
Mention has been made of other matters. One honourable member mentioned the price of Hansard. It is true that the price has risen, but also the availability of  Hansard  has been made much greater. 
-The honourable member is talking again about bis own convenience. I am talking about convenience of the public.  Hansard  is available to every public library and every school library in Australia. It is fairly readily available to people who want access to copies on a casual basis. Those few people who want access to copies through the private subscription lists of members of Parliament can almost all be catered for if they approach their members. There are very few members who in fact have used their total allocation. When the  Hansard  subscription rate for each House of Parliament was 60c per year- for both Houses it was $1.20 a year- the combined cost covered the cost of postage of one copy of the  Hansard  report of each House. I think there were less than 2000 subscribers at that time. So, generally, a large number of people do not subscribe. I would agree that the price is now rather high, but I would say that it recovers only about half the cost of providing  Hansard  to the public. There is a limit to which we can subsidise such publications but, even so, the subsidy is extremely high. 
Mention was made also of the procedures of Parliament. Like everyone else, I believe that the procedures of this House have to be modernised so that we can do the business that must be done and also perform the function of a House to discuss the policies of the nation. There are very great needs for some degree of flexibility in the handling of legislation. I personally believe that the parties and the members of the Parliament have a very great responsibility in this area. Everything that comes into the Parliament is not necessarily a Government versus Opposition measure. There is a very great area of legislation which in fact should be subject to negotiation within the parliamentary system. This would improve the standard of legislation; it would improve the standing and the operations of Parliament; and I believe it would make sure that we framed procedures which would enable us properly to handle our business. 
Suggestions have been made over a period and I intend to refer to a couple of them. During the parliamentary recess I visited other parliaments. I believe that there are some minor and major alterations which could be made to our procedures and which would help in the discussion and passage of legislation. I do not intend to go through them aU because time would not allow me to do so. However, there are one or two proposals which are before the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System which are public documents. I suggest that it might be appropriate to incorporate them in Hansard. One proposal is for legislative committees which could meet in parallel and deal with legislation on a multiple basis at the same time where the House has agreed to that procedure. The other proposal is for a procedures committee, which I think is absolutely essential to this Parliament. 
The honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  mentioned meetings of the Standing Orders Committee. I know how difficult it is to have meetings of this Committee. In fact I would suggest to the Committee that, having regard to the present structure of the Standing Orders Committee, it is impossible for that Committee to perform a useful function in modernising the procedures of this House. There are too many kings on the Committee and it is impossible at any given time for the Committee to meet for any length of time on a series of days. I believe that a smaller procedures committee is absolutely essential within this Parliament in order continually to review and modernise its procedures. 
There are a number of other procedural matters, some of which have already been mentioned, which I believe ought to be considered. Among them is the pairing system within the Parliament which I think ought to be rationalised and put on a semi-official basis so that, for example, members who go overseas would be able to register a pair under the Standing Orders and that pair would be binding on the 2 members concerned. Therefore the inconvenience of disadvantage of breaking a pair, which can happen through lack of good faith on either side of the Parliament would not exist. I believe that members who arrange a pair should be able to rely on that arrangement being permanent. 
There are more serious areas of parliamentary reform which I believe only the goodwill of members of Parliament can solve. After all, what ever is contained in the Standing Orders of the Parliament has been determined by the members of this Parliament. In fact, every standing order which exists today was put in the Standing Orders by members who sit on the other side of the chamber and, if I may say so, some of the members on this side of the chamber supported those actions. The Standing Orders are monument to decisions made in this chamber, mostly on a free vote. If they are not satisfactory this chamber and this chamber alone can change them. It is up to the Parliament 
One final remark I want to make is that if this Parliament does not learn to carry out its functions or is not capable of carrying out its functions or is not capable of carrying out the functions for which it has been elected, and that includes the function of governing by a government elected by the people, other methods will be devised by people in the community who want things done. People denied access to the Parliament will take other actions. This has happened in many countries; it could happen in Australia. If this Parliament does not set itself to modernise its procedures so that it can carry out the business required of it, this Parliament will fall into disrepute. It is up to the members. No one other than the people who sit within this chamber can change our procedures. 
-Last night during my remarks, I indicated that I would incorporate in Hansard some documents relating to the procedures of the House. At that stage I did not do so and I seek leave to have the documents incorporated. 

 -Mr Speaker, I congratulate you on your assumption of a very important and high office not only in this Parliament but also in our community. You take this office at a time when some of the problems which beset myself and my predecessor do not exist within this Parliament. The governing party has a majority in both Houses and therefore it is less likely that conflict between the Houses will exist. You also take office at a time when this House is at what I must say is its lowest position with regard to government and administration. This House has had removed from it its pre-eminent right over the finances of the Commonwealth. It has had removed from it rights which people's houses, including the House of Commons, have had for 700 years. 
The Leader of the House expressed his opinion in an earlier debate.  His  opinion is that a man who robs a bank and gets away with it is properly and legally entitled to the funds he collects. Having robbed the bank of integrity and obtained a majority in this House does not make the actions which preceded the election proper any more than the verdict of the Australian people in 1966 reflected what was proper and subsequently proved correct in those days.  Mr Speaker,  I have been diverted by an interjection and I am sorry. 
-That decision is the Presiding Officer's responsibility and not the responsibility of the honourable member. I am sure the  Speaker  can carry out his duties far better than the honourable member. That is why the honourable member was not selected yesterday.  Sir, you  assume responsibilities also outside this chamber. You are responsible for this Parliament and every person who enters and works within it. The people who work within this Parliament are the people most neglected by this Commonwealth of ours and least thought about by those who exercise power. You,  Sir, have  a responsibility which will bring you in conflict with your executive and rarely bring you satisfaction. The conditions under which people work in this Parliament are below sub-standard and this Parliament, under its laws, would not allow other people to work under similar conditions.  Sir, I  congratulate you and I say to you with all the goodwill in the world that I trust that your service to Parliament this House of the Parliament as its  Speaker  will be such that it will place your name high in the list of the people who have occupied that chair and that it will bring to this Parliament and, more importantly, to this House of the Parliament, the respect and the position to which I think the Government of this country is entitled. 
-I move: 
That  Dr Jenkins,  the honourable member for Scullin, be appointed  Chairman  of Committees of this House. 

 Mr O'KEEFE (Paterson)-Mr  Speaker,  I commend to you and to the House the appointment of  Mr Philip  Ernest Lucock, C.B.E., the honourable member for Lyne, as  Chairman  of Committees of this House. The honourable member has had a distinguished parliamentary career, having been elected as honourable member for Lyne in a by-election on 22 March 1952. He has been re-elected on all subsequent occasions. During his membership of the House of Representatives he has demonstrated great ability and a knowledge and capacity which qualify him for the appointment which this 
House is considering. During his parliamentary terms he occupied the position of Temporary  Chairman  of Committees from 28 February 1956 to 20 February 1961 and served as  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees from 8 March 1961 to 27 February 1973. He has been Acting  Speaker  on occasions. Indeed, the honourable member's service as  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker  in previous parliaments constitutes a parliamentary record. 
The position of  Chairman  of Committees of this House is extremely important because the occupant serves not only as  Chairman  of Committees but also as first  deputy  to the  Speaker. Mr Lucock  brings to the House a vast experience of parliamentary procedure. Over the years as an occupant of this important post he exhibited great tolerance, wisdom, dignity and fairness on all occasions.  Mr Lucock  has represented Australia on many overseas delegations, and represented this country in a most distinguished manner. In 1957 he was a member of the Australian delegation to the 12th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations in New York.  Mr Lucock  is regarded by parliamentarians in this country as an outstanding  chairman  who will bring great credit to this Parliament and to the position for which he is nominated. I have much pleasure in commending to the House  Mr Philip  Lucock as a member exhibiting the best qualities required for the position of  Chairman  of Committees of the House of Representatives. 
-The Opposition supports the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Opposition obviously supports this motion. This is the third Parliament in which this motion has been introduced. I commend to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that at an early time he have it incorporated in the Standing Orders of this House. The practice has been well tried and it is now time for us to make it a permanent feature and not have it dependent on the whims of government which do change at times. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Has the Government taken a decision as to whether it will continue with the programs which were agreed to last year to relocate a number of public servants at various locations, including Geelong, and also to locate the National Biological Standards Laboratory at Geelong? I point out to the Prime Minister that a meeting on employment, which I understand is under the auspices of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, is to take place today in Geelong. 
-This debate on the Address-in-Reply is an important debate. 
It is one in which we should all be discussing and should be able to discuss the policies which the Government has put forward as read by the Governor-General. Unfortunately the whole issue is clouded by events. 
-No. I am speaking in the debate. 
I was saying that it is unfortunate that the Address-in-Reply debate and the events which led up to the Address being delivered and the whole question of the standing of this House have been placed in some jeopardy, or at least some cloud has come across its activities. The historic position of the House of Representatives in the Australian Parliament and the House of Commons in the British Parliament has been that it has been the protector of the people against the excesses of the Crown. It derives its power from its exclusive right to approve the appropriation of expenditure, a right which was won from the Crown by the blood of members of the British Parliament, by a near revolution, and by the actual execution of one monarch. Without the right to censure the claims of the Crown- and in this context in the modern sense the claims of the Crown are the claims of the executive of government- the House of Representatives or the House of Commons has little real authority. Without that right the House of Representatives and the House of Commons have little real authority over the executive of the day and its members do not have the power to implement those things which they are sent here to implement by the people whom they represent. 
I believe that very serious weaknesses were shown to exist in our Constitution on 1 1 
November. Whether or not the actions which took place were proper, the facts as they were revealed then and subsequently indicate quite clearly that the powers of this House and this House's ability to protect itself against the other arms of government are almost non-existent and certainly are unenforceable. Irrespective of whether a Governor-General acts properly or improperly the power resides in him to dissolve this House without his being required to take note of the wishes of the House and no provision is made for this House, even if it is illegally dissolved, to protect itself. Once this House is dissolved it no longer exists. That weakness became very evident on 11 November. If the House chose to appeal to the High Court for an interpretation of the Constitution or for redress under the Constitution it could not do so because it already would have been dissolved and therefore it would have no person who was able to take such action. So the position of the House is weak in that sense. 
The position of the House is weak also in that apparently it no longer has any control over whether or not those persons who are chosen to be commissioned to form governments need to have a majority. So that members may give serious consideration to the position which now exists, I should like to put to the House a hypothetical case which I hope no one would suggest reflects on any present occupant of any position. The Governor-General is the possessor of absolute power in certain respects with regard to the Constitution. This is spelt out clearly in the letter written by  Her  Majesty. The position now exists whereby a Governor-General, if he disagreed with the actions of a Prime Minister, whether they were economic or of another nature could dismiss that Prime Minister. The sorts of conflict which would be most likely to arise would be ones of foreign policy and of whether or not Australia should become involved in some conflict or some action outside her own shores. The Governor-General could dismiss that Prime Minister and appoint another Prime Minister in order to accept advice from that Prime Minister to involve the nations armed forces in a conflict; or in order to take some fiscal action, such as devaluation or revaluation of the currency, which the Governor-General felt was proper at the time and which the Prime Minister or the Government of the day did not think was proper. This could be done, and there is nothing the House could do to obtain redress. Only when the time came to obtain Supply, which could be 5 or 6 months away, could the House take any action. You realise,  Sir, as  I do, that if one is committed to any armed conflict where one's own forces are involved or if it is an economic measure such as a devaluation or a revaluation, it is too late to take action once one is committed and the act is done. That is now open to take place. 
-The honourable member may suggest that it is nonsense. There were people who said in 1972 that it was nonsense to keep raising the Watergate situation and that Nixon had received the overwhelming support of the American people. If the Democrats and the Congress had not pressed on at that time, Spiro Agnew probably would have been running in the primaries for the Presidency of the United States now. Most people now would not remember who he was. Victory at an election does not necessarily make any action right. It is a temporary thing which can be reversed very quickly. 
I make these points because history is full of such incidents. Once a power becomes available there will always be someone who will seek to use that power. I make this point finally on this subject: It is not my intention to suggest, and I do not suggest, that what I have said applies to any person occupying any office at the present time, but the power now exists quite clearly and at some time it will be used. When it is used it will be used to the detriment of this country and to the destruction of this Parliament. This House totally lacks any vehicle by which it can protect itself. That is a weakness which does not exist in the Parliament from which this Parliament is derived. It is a weakness which must be remedied if this Parliament is to exercise real authority in this nation. 
The Address-in-Reply debate provides an opportunity to raise a number of other matters possibly of more immediate consequence but certainly of less consequence historically. Whatever is done this year in any Parliament will be forgotten quickly. In fact governments usually survive because people forget what they did last year or the year before. I am concerned about a number of aspects of present Government policy. There are always two or more schools of economic thought, two or more schools of thought on what is best for anyone or anything that is ailing. I hope that the right course is being taken. I seriously doubt it. I do not believe that superficial cuts in expenditure, some of which money had not been appropriated, even though they may be made to create a psychological atmosphere, achieve a great deal. I am not certain that there is any real economic evidence to show that cutting or supposedly cutting a deficit by borrowing money at a fairly high rate of interest in order to reduce the amount of money which a government borrows from the Reserve Bank at a low rate of interest gives stimulus to an economy. Certainly there is no under-supply of goods in our community at the moment. Recently we had the spectacle of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  making statements that it was necessary to soak up excess liquidity while on the same day the Minister in charge of industry made a statement that it was necessary to increase consumer demand. There would seem to me to be some conflict in those statements. 
The major criticisms I have of the Government are that, in creating a psychological atmosphere, it has set out to reduce a deficit but in fact it has taken very severe action against those people in our community who are least able to defend themselves. The removal from pensioners of the $40 funeral benefit may well represent an insignificant amount. I think it saves $700,000 a year. It possibly represents only about 7 per cent of the cost today of a reasonable funeral, but that is not a reason for taking away $40 from a pensioner, it is a reason for increasing the amount paid in subsidy. I inform those honourable members who are new to the House that to give pensioners $150 towards the cost of burial of their partners- and I am talking about the pensionerpensioner section of the benefit- would cost less than $2m in a full year. That is not a great deal of money in the context of a $20,000m Budget. To take away that $40 from a pensioner is to cause hardship. It is a callous act; it cannot be described in any other way, and it has no effect whatever on a $4,000m deficit. It is a pencil stroke by someone who does not think that $40 is important. 
The on-and-off charge of $10 for hearing aids for pensioners was in a similar category but fortunately that proposal has been dropped. The increase of 50c in the charge for pharmaceutical benefits is a punishment for those persons who have ailments or problems which require them to obtain prescriptions regularly. It is not a punishment for the person who is casually ill. It is an insignificant amount for that person, but it is an amount of substance for any person who has to obtain prescriptions regularly. There are people in our community who will in fact have their taxation increased indirectly by up to $2 a week because of this charge and they are people who must have regular prescriptions. They are the people whom the Government is hitting, and again I think that that is a callous action. 
I should like to give one other example of the Government taking the easy way out. I regret to say that the Government of the Party I support took a similar action in relation to air travel, but the example to which I refer is trivial beyond all imagination. Members who have served in this Parliament for 30 years were entitled to the use of cars in the capital cities. If one looks at the Parliamentary Handbook one finds that there are fewer than a dozen members who served that long.  Mr Norman  Makin, one of the former members who received a letter relating to this matter, came into this Parliament in 1919. He was  Speaker  of the House of Representatives from 1921 to 1931. He was our Ambassador to Washington and served as a Minister in the 1940s. He is now, I think, in his nineties. He had never been told that he was entitled to these facilities but he got a letter cancelling them. I am not sure what the Treasury put down as the saving in this case but I would imagine this facility cost only 1 8c- the cost of the letter. 
-The fact is that it was a trifling thing which would have cost the Government almost nothing. Ex-Senator Foil is about 90 years of age. He also was entitled to this facility. The only other persons I know of who would have been involved were  Sir John  McEwen who has full use of car facilities, anyway, because he is an ex-Prime Minister - 
-And Fred Daly, and if I may say so the honourable member for Fremantle (  Mr Beazley  ) who is still a member of this Parliament and has in excess of 30 years service. There are not many who serve 30 years in this Parliament, and I suggest that the little recognition given to them is well earned. I hope that no member would so underrate himself as to suggest that to survive in this place for 30 years does not entitle him to some form of recognition. After all, a Minister is entitled to a life gold pass and the use of those facilities after 3 years. A private member has to serve ten times as long to get those facilities, or seven times as long to get a life gold pass. 
The point I am making is that such cuts as these are not real savings in government expenditure. They are a facade which has been created in an attempt to convince the public that the Government is serious. The real intent of the Government is embodied in a statement made by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) last year when he said that it was time that attempts to equalise people's opportunities in this society ended. Ten years of trying to bring about an egalitarian society had to end. That is the philosophy put forward by the Prime Minister and that is what is in fact taking place under the guise of economic policy. The major cuts are being made in areas of assistance to people who are least able to assist themselves. 
-I find that a rather inane interjection. Fred Daly's case I have said, is a very minor proposition. I am talking about major cuts. Under the guise of taking something off a member of Parliament, something which most likely has cost the Treasury less than $1,000 a year, millions of dollars are being taken off people who are in need. 
-I submit to you,  Mr Speaker,  that if by an action of surveillance the police or any other authority can inhibit a member of the Parliament from conversing freely with and contacting freely persons who have information which it is necessary for that honourable member to obtain in order to carry out his duties and surveillance as a member of this Parliament, his privileges as a member of this Parliament have been breached. A member of this Parliament has privilege in relation to what is said in this House. Any action by anyone which would inhibit or prevent an honourable member from properly carrying out his duties in this Parliament and his duties to the Australian electorate is a breach of the privileges of this House. 
I suggest to you,  Sir, that  this Parliament is responsible for the laws under which the Commonwealth Police and other security organisations operate. If the members of this Parliament are able to be inhibited in their duties and possibly blackmailed by the threats of surveillance, the privileges of this House do not exist. I suggest,  Sir, that  it is proper that the Privileges Committee of this House consider this case and report to this Parliament on the extent to which the privileges of an honourable member should exempt him from such surveillance and in what circumstances such surveillance should be allowed to be imposed on a member of this Parliament. 
I do not question whether the Commonwealth Police are acting properly or within their security functions; what I question is whether the rights and privileges of access to information of a member of this Parliament can be inhibited by the  knowledge that those persons who pass on information to a member of Parliament are under surveillance, can come under threat and cannot freely disclose information in private without the fear that that information may be passed on to political opponents or persons who could do them political damage. I believe that this is a clear case where the Privileges Committee should determine whether and to what extent an honourable member's privileges exist with relation to this type of surveillance. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence to raise a matter with you. In this morning's Melbourne  Sun News-Pictorial  a report appears that the House will hold in contempt the employees of the Australian Broadcasting Commission who control the broadcast within this House if they consider going on strike. The report refers to information coming from senior members and parliamentary officers. I think it is unfair to parliamentary officers and others that such a report should be made and that such intimidation can be directed against members of the staff of the ABC in the name of the Parliament. I ask you to have the source of this report investigated so that no person can be threatened with parliamentary action in this way. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I would like to join the true confessions. You can vouch for my presence on the VIP plane. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I do not know whether Hans Christian Andersen is a member of this House. 
-Tonight I wish to raise a matter which should be of concern to every member of this House. It is of particular concern to my electorate. I refer to the decision announced by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  in the Senate last week to defer for reconsideration the establishment of a national animal research laboratory at Geelong. I understand that it is sought to assess this project as an uncommitted project. I would think that the people involved in the livestock industry in Australia would consider this project as being of considerable urgency. There is a long lead time before this project could become operative. If it began now it would not become operative until 1982. That does not reduce the urgency of proceeding with it now. The project had advanced to the stage where plans were being drawn and I understand that voluminous detailed drawings are required, to say the least. Contracts were about to be let for the carting of filling to the site and this would take about 2 years of continuous work. 
The project has been deferred for further consideration and it may well proceed but important considerations are involved. If it is being deferred as a money saving measure then I suggest this is false economy. Even if it is deferred for only 6 months it will add several million dollars to the final cost and that is not a money saving operation. The deferral of this project follows amost immediately on the cancellation of a project which had been commenced for the relocation of public servants or the diversification of public servants out of the central business districts of Melbourne into a number of areas, including 1000 pesonnel who were to be located at Geelong. It was said in this House that the present Government believes that people should not be forced to work in a place where they do not wish to work. It may just happen that public servants may not wish to work in the centre of the cities but they have no choice and are forced to do so. This diversification program would have provided opportunities for a substantial number of public servants to live in the areas where they were to be relocated and it would have reduced the amount of travel which they had to undertake. At present they have to travel 30 miles to 40 miles, and sometimes further, and the number who have to travel these distances is rather large. 
The national animal health project was approved by Parliament last year after it was scrutinised by the Public Works Department. Considerable work already has been done on preparing the site, developing drawings and on the technical side of the project. The project has real national significance, and I hope that those honourable gentlemen who represent rural electorates and who, I am sure, are aware of the importance of the establishment of this laboratory will ensure that the project is not deferred, as has happened in the past. Already it has had one deferment of about 8 years because of an economy drive. It is a very expensive project. 
Failure to provide the protection that this laboratory will give to our cattle and other livestock industries could overnight cost Australia thousands of millions of dollars in export income. 
If we wish to be punters we can continue to rely indefinitely on other countries to supply the various serums and other requirements and also to carry out assessment and research, but I suggest it is time that Australia was able to protect itself in these matters. The suggestion that the project can be deferred as a money saving measure is false economy. Not only would it place at some risk the industries involved, but also it is likely to push the project back into a period of high construction demand. The construction industry is an ebb and flow industry, and at the moment it is moving more into a trough than a peak. It would be much easier to start a major construction job and get satisfactory tenders for the construction of the project now than it would be in 6 months or 12 months. 
-The last estimate was $82m to be spent over 8 years. I do not know whether the honourable member would look on that as a reasonable investment for the protection that it will give to people in the industries which he professes to support and which I expect he does support. 
-I do not know what the honourable gentleman knows about 
Parliament- I think very little- but the  Speaker  does not speak in this House, and last year I was the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. If the honourable gentleman wants to know about this I suggest that he get a copy of the Standing Orders and read them. I also make the point to the honourable gentleman that this and a number of other projects were committed by the Government of the Party of which I am a member. They were important projects to my electorate. The cancellation is a very serious blow not only to the people of my Party but also to very prominent members of the Liberal Party who fought equally hard to have these projects allocated to the Geelong area which has a very serious deficiency in tertiary employment, as have other major provincial cities in Australia. It was a forward step to seek to move some of the Public Service and other Government instrumentalities out of city centres, with the problems that are increasingly being faced in the inner suburbs and the central city districts because of the failing public transport systems and the inability of those systems to carry the traffic. 
I appeal to the Government and to Government supporters to seek an early resolution of the question whether this project is to proceed. It will not be a money saving measure to defer the project. It will be a risk to important industries which should not be taken and which, if taken, will cost money and could be calamitous to a large section of our export industries. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 11 p.m., the House stands adjourned until 3 p.m. tomorrow. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  The amendment is in 3 parts and it sets out what are in the opinion of members on this side of the House matters of considerable concern and matters which the Government, through the GovernorGeneral, ought to have made quite clear in the Governor-General 's Speech. The first section of the amendment deals with the pre-eminence of this House in financial affairs. I do not intend to deal with what has happened. However, I do want to draw to the attention of honourable members the current position of this House in the parliamentary system. Traditionally the basic and sole power of the people's House,- be it the House of Representatives or the House of Commons, has derived from its total control over the appropriation of money from the Consolidated Revenue Fund or the Treasury. As a result of circumstances and certain revelations which were made in correspondence between me and the Monarch it is now evident that this pre-eminence exists only on the basis of good faith between the Governor-General of Australia and the Parliament. The fact that the Senate, on the precedents now established, is able to refuse to consider the appropriation of funds by this House is a serious departure from the historic precedents on which the power of this chamber and this Parliament has rested. 
It is of equal importance that we should note that the chamber which took the action to refuse to consider a request for funds from this House was not in fact, as has been repeatedly claimed, the chamber which was election in 1974. It consisted of 58 elected and 2 appointed members and neither of the appointed members represented the Party to which the senators whose places they filled had belonged. Therefore we have a situation which is not covered by any statute or by the Constitution and which was certainly not foreseen by those who framed the Constitution whereby the political balance of one of the Houses of this Parliament can be completely destroyed by the appointment of persons of political viewpoints, different from those of the senators whom the people of the States concerned chose. Such a situation did occur and as a result other events followed. 
The second part of the amendment deals with the failure of the Government to provide in the Governor-General's Speech any suggestion whereby the occurrences of last year will be prevented. I point out to members of this House quite seriously that if we continue with a situation in which the authority of this House on financial matters is non-existent, or is so flimsy that it can be overcome not by the defeat of requests for funds but by the refusal to consideror, to put it in terms which members on the other side of the House would use in respect of employers or employees, if the Senate goes on strike and refuses to carry out its constitutional functions- and the person who for the time being happens to be the Governor-General of Australia is brought on to the Senate 's side of the argument, the power of this House disappears. It does so because absolute authority rests with the Governor-General to appoint and dismiss Prime Ministers, and absolute authority rests with him whether or not he dismisses this House. 
These are serious considerations. They are considerations which should not be taken lightly by members on the other side of the House merely because they at the present time happen to have a majority in both houses. If one's long term view of the rights and position of Parliament is dependent on whether or not at the time one has a majority, Parliament itself has no real role to play. I suggest to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that unless consideration is given by the members of this House to continuing or restoration of the authority of this House over the appropriation of money and its pre-eminence in that area the authority of Parliament will totally disappear. 
The third and quite different point in the amendment deals with the apparent policy, spelt out in the Governor-General's Speech, of transferring funds from the lower income sections of the community to those in our community who are better off. This is a matter of some consequence because there are in every community those people who are unable to provide, care and tend for themselves. These people, for whom the community itself has a responsibility, normally are a minority. Because they are a minority they have little political muscle. Their access to the media and even to the Parliament is restricted by their lack of finance and their position in the community. There are always those who speak on their behalf, but that is not the same as being able to speak on one's own behalf. We find that any disadvantaged section of the community which represents a major section of industry or commerce, a major ethnic group or some other major pressure group will be able to be heard and will always be able to obtain space in the media in order to have its protest heard. Those people least able to care for themselves do not have that advantage and do not have ready access to publicity and to the general public. 
In the initial weeks in office of this Government some of the decisions on the cutting of expenditure- if that is the Government's policy then let us accept it even though we do not agree with it- are open to the gravest interpretation and the gravest charges of publicity-seeking or seeking to establish in the public mind a train of thought rather than being actual savings on revenue expenditures. I point to one or two of the so-called revenue saving measures which have been announced and which have very little or no effect at all on a $4,000m deficit. The saving by removing the funeral benefit for pensioners will be less than Sim for this year and less than $2m in a full year. The $40 taken away from a pensioner responsible for the funeral costs of another pensioner is a major amount of money to that pensioner. The sum of $lm in a $4,000m deficit is not even peanuts to the Treasury. I understand that the advice to remove it was given because the $40 was so insignificant that it was not worth maintaining. Although $40 is not much- it is about 6 per cent or 7 per cent of the cost of the lowest priced funeral that one can get- it is a considerable amount to a person who is unable to afford the costs of a funeral anyhow. All that the 
Government is doing is saving $700,000 or less, possibly convincing a few people that it is serious about cost cutting without actually doing so, and penalising a person in the most tragic circumstances imaginable. 
Similarly, the increase in pharmaceutical benefits does not hit the person who is in the best position, rarely going to the doctor and even more rarely having a prescription filled. It hits the person who has to have regular and quite often numerous prescriptions- the person who may have three to six prescriptions filled a week. There are a substantial number of such people in the community. Some of them are not in a position to be able to afford the additional funds. If a person goes to the chemist once a month the increase is insignificant. If a person goes to the chemist regularly it is a substantial reduction in his standard of living, and the amount of money saved is again insignificant. 
It appears that the cuts in Government spendingthe items I have just mentioned are part of them- are designed more to set a mental state in the community than a financial one. At least one of the cuts of substantial proportions was appropriated for the Australian Industries Development Corporation to increase its capital if it required additional borrowing rates because of a fixed ratio between capital and borrowing rates. The money was not required and was not to be taken up, yet it is announced as a cut in Government spending. That is not true. The money was never to be spent, therefore it could not be cut. It appeared in the Budget. Another amount which has been cut appeared in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) which was not passed by the Parliament and therefore the money was not available to be spent. This is part of the psychological warfare against the community in order to establish a state of mind. My objection is that, in establishing that state of mind, those least able to care for themselves have been the subject of the major assault. The big sums of money taken from areas where there are large sums of money may not have anything like the same effect. They may affect the Budget. Small sums are being taken from those people who gain real benefit from those sums and that is where the transference of income takes place and where the responsibility of government rests. 
We must question what the Government intends to do about the sums of money which are available to the States. After all if the Government is to cut out a funeral benefit in order to save $700,000 a year, if it is to reduce its Public Service by 6000 or 7000 people and create unemployment in that way or remove employment opportunities, which is the same thing, we must question the sincerity of a government which remains totally silent on the amount of money it makes available to the States. Throughout last year we had regular statements from the Premier of Victoria- we heard from the other Premiers and not only the conservative ones but the Premier of Victoria was the most outspoken, with the possible exception of the Premier of Queensland- to the effect that his State was going bankrupt because it was starved of funds. During that period the Victorian Public Service increased by 50 per cent more than the increase in the Commonwealth Public Service. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated that the rate of growth of the Commonwealth Public Service is unacceptable. He is seeking to reduce that rate by denying jobs to school leavers and to persons who would normally have entered the Public Service. If anyone takes the trouble to look at what the Premier of Victoria has said in the last week or two he will find that that State intends to increase the rate of growth within its own Public Service and the rate of spending within that State. If a State increases its spending and the Commonwealth reduced its spending, surely that is counter-productive because the deficit we talk about includes the amount of money paid by the Commonwealth to the States. 
I would prefer to trust a Liberal government in this House than some of the governments in the States with the care of those people in the lower income groups who are in need because at least the Commonwealth tends to treat people as people, the States tend to treat them as political events. They act where votes are required. However if, as has been announced, the States are going to be given revenue raising capacities which they do not have now- apparently those capacities are going to allow them to increase their expenditures substantially; either that or the Premier of Victoria is misleading a lot of people- what purpose is being served by taking away pensioner and pharmaceutical benefits, hearing aid benefits for pensioners and deferring pensions and going through all the pinpricking exercises which have been gone through in the last few months in order to save $300,000 or $400,000? What purpose is being served if the Government reduces Commonwealth taxes on those on high incomes, which I understand is the Prime Minister's policy, and it  becomes  a flat rate tax imposed by the States, which is obviously what the double tax system is going to mean? All that the Government is doing is ensuring that the political odium of increasing Government spending to cover those areas in which the Commonwealth is abdicating responsibility will fall in the States. 
It is time that someone did a rethink. I do not believe that any member in the Liberal Party or the Country Party can stand up in this House and justify the removal of the funeral benefit for pensioners. If anyone can justify that, then they cannot justify any form of additional expenditure which the Government may seek to enter into, and it is seeking to enter into additional forms of expenditure which exceed the savings which have been announced as being due to the existing cuts. I am referring to the real savings, not the fictitious savings which have been included in order to pad the figures. If the States are going to raise revenue in order to meet expenditure commitments which have already been made then the deficit, whether it be State or Commonwealth, is not going to alter materially. I suggest that, as the amendment says, the policy of the present Government is the transference of income from one sector of the community- the low income sector- to those who are better off, and that this is in line with statements made by the present Prime Minister last year that this rubbish about an egalitarian society which has been practised by governments, both Liberal and Labor, for the last 10 years has to stop. I would suggest that we have a responsibility to those people who cannot care for themselves. I do not object to the Government attacking those people who would defraud the system, but when the Government attacks those people who have genuine need under the guise of attacking those who would defraud the system or under the guise of saving money, then I suggest it is attacking the basis of our society. 

 -Mr Speaker, with your indulgence, before moving the adjournment of this debate I would like to associate myself with the remarks of the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Sinclair)  and also to express to your Attendant our sympathy at the loss of his wife last week. I move: 
That the debate now be adjourned. 
-The subject matter of this debate is of considerable importance to a number of areas in Australia. The prime aim of the debate is to obtain some indication of policy from the Government on this particular problem. It is a problem for my electorate; it is a problem for the AlburyWodonga area; it is a problem for the BathurstOrange area; it is a problem for Monarto. It is a matter in which clarity is of the utmost importance and in relation to which, unfortunately, only vague references to proposed policies exist. Today at question time we heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  say that he supported a policy of promotion of total growth in nonurban areas. This was the policy of the former Liberal-Country Party Government and it was for a long period the policy of at least the Victorian State Government. The record of achievement of this policy is practically nil. It is in fact an excuse for doing nothing. If we seek to slow down the growth of urban areas and move or hold the population growth outside the metropolitan areas, it is necessary to make a concentrated effort to provide for people the range of facilities that they require. 
The growth centre concept is, in my opinion, better than the former policies whereby promotion of development was on an ad hoc basis without real relevance to the total needs of any given community. I represent the second biggest city in Victoria, one which has and has had for a long time a natural growth factor greater than that of any other centre of any size in that State and certainly greater in percentage than the Melbourne urban area. Those who represent areas further afield in the State would say it is an annex of the Melbourne metropolitan area. Certainly no one who lives in Geelong would agree with that. 
In the period since it was decided that Geelong would become an area for the promotion of growth based on the need to slow down the concentration of population in one urban area in the State- a proposition which was agreed to both by the State and the Commonwealth governments and which could not have been arrived at without the decision of the State Governmentthere have been some delays, I think unfortunate delays, while the nature of the Geelong Regional 
Authority Bill was discussed in the Victorian Parliament. It was there for something in excess of 2 years. Largely the delays were caused by planning matters and how planning proposals were written into the Bill. Unfortunately in the Geelong area there is a serious problem of blurring at the fringes between existing planning legislation and the operation of the existing planning authority, which was set up in 1969 and which operates on the basis of delegates from local government bodies in the area making planning decisions, and proposals for a growth centre. Even now very serious political infighting is taking place in the Geelong area based on decisions of the Geelong Regional Planning Authority which had nothing to do in its concept or its setting up with the Geelong growth centre proposals. The need for a decision is urgent. The Geelong Regional Authority Bill has been passed. The Victorian Government is in the process of establishing the Authority with a fairly substantial- I suppose 'bureaucracy' is the word that is in current use- body of experts and other people taking control of what was to be and is a growth centre proposal. 
A number of important decisions were taken by the former Government to provide what is the most essential thing of any provincial city- that is, balance in employment opportunities. I have heard the Prime Minister say here that Geelong 's employment problems are the problems of the car industry or the textile industry. There are areas in which a lot of employment is available and in which reductions in employment cause serious hardship. They are not industries which have a continuing problem within an area such as Geelong or any other provincial city. The Geelong Regional Planning Authority did in fact as part of the lead up to the establishment of growth centres commission surveys on employment patterns. If anyone takes the trouble to examine employment patterns in any provincial city of any size it will be found that an almost exact pattern exists. There are normally fairly substantial secondary industries and jobs available for persons up to the skilled tradesman level. There are jobs for females in the textile and similar types of industries. The industries vary but they are similar. There are few jobs available for those people who take advantage of the advances in education that have occurred and who seek employment to fit the training which they have obtained. In provincial cities and country towns that does not exist. 
The proposals which were put forward first for Geelong and for other cities designated as growth centres would have provided a stimulus for employment in what is termed the tertiary areas. The proposals in respect of the National Biological Standards Laboratory and the National Animal Research Laboratories, which are currently deferred, not cancelled- I would imagine the former has been cancelled- and the proposal to relocate part of the Public Service in a number of areas outside the central city areas of our capital cities were decisions which would have had the effect of promoting and solving to a large extent the problems of imbalance of employment in those centres where they were to be located. I think it is unfortunate that the Prime Minister for one- I would hope not other responsible Government Ministers- believes that long term employment problems in areas such as Geelong can be solved by the propping up or by the protection or over-protection of existing industries. They are extremely important to the area and I have expressed this opinion ever since I have been a member of this Parliament. I do not minimise for one minute the damage that will be done to Geelong if, for instance, the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd were to run into difficulties, but the long term prospects for employment for a substantial portion of the population requires the promotion of industries which will not come to the area of their own volition. It is, first of all, fashionable- I do not know whether it is economic- and it is certainly the policy of this Government if the statements of the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  in this place are to be taken as Government policy, to place all facilities possible in the centre of the capital cities. I do not believe that is in the national interest and I do not believe it is good policy planning. 
The placement or relocation of public servants in areas such as Geelong and in other areas it is proposed to allocate them would have had in the long term a number of advantages. Firstly, it would have taken those public servants within the central urban area of the city of Melbourne where they add daily to the traffic congestion, where they generate traffic which creates a demand for additional freeways because Victoria does not have like every other capital city a decent public transport system. The State government has withdrawn funds for expenditure in this field over a number of years, thus running down the public transport services. That is another area in which the present Government is about to withdraw its support. 
The growth centre concept was one of a number of possible solutions. It was the best one offering and I believe it is the best one offering at the present time for real effect. The alternative is to put another ring around Melbourne and another ring around Sydney which would squeeze up the prices of land and other commodities which are required for urban living and urban employment in those capital cities. If what the Prime Minister has said here today is the policy of the present Government then the present Government has no policy at all. We will continue to hear a great fanfare when a small industry opens in a capital city. We will hear statistics quoted regularly about the large number of industries which are being established but we will continue to see every qualified young person who lives in a non-metropolitan area being forced to leave his or her family and home to enter the capital cities in order to seek employment. The drift to the cities is something which, most likely, no one can stop, but it is possible by reasonable planning and by a reasonable approach to minimise it and to reduce problems in our major cities. 
If we exercise what the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  described as a freedom of choice- that is, for the employee to choose to work in the centre of the city where the Government tells him he has to work, which is the freedom of choice he has at the moment- we also compel that person to spend half of his working day getting to and from his place of employment in the most frustrating and demoralising circumstances. Some people might be lucky enough to have adequate public transport available but the majority of areas where young people are building houses in the capital cities today do not have public transport. They do not have decent roads and eventually bottle-necks develop in inner suburban streets where freeway construction would destroy the homes and facilities but where the lack of freeways destroys the whole of the urban area in which people live. That is the difference between taking positive action to move people out of the capital cities, encouraging them to stay where they are, or of generating growth in areas such as those which were designated growth centres. 
It is not true to say that the growth centres were exclusively the choice of a Labor government. They were certainly proposed at a federal level and they were accepted at a State level. Some of them may well have been proposed at a State level. Co-operation with the State governments was absolutely essential. As far as I am aware, the State governments concerned have reached the situation where they are prepared to co-operate. There are always problems with something new. One of the problems I mentioned earlier was the mix-up between the planning- which was able to get off the round because there were funds available for it and without money planning cannot exist- and the concept of the growth centre proposals which, most likely, absorbed planning but were not necessarily part of the planning process which had already been started under different legislation and in different circumstances. 
Finally, within 3 years- despite the considerable delay which had the effect of losing money appropriated- a lot of progress was made with regard to Geelong. After 2 years of delay the Bill passed through the Victorian Parliament late last year. The authority is in the process of being established. It requires co-operation and an undertaking from the Federal Government that it still supports the project. I believe it requires a recommitment of those projects which were committed and have now been withdrawn and will be replaced elsewhere, probably to the detriment of the nation as a whole. It requires the Government to accept a responsibility as a national government rather than being inward-looking and parochial and avoiding responsibility. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Joint Committee on Committees for the Parliament is one on which I had the privilege of being the first  chairman.  Because of other events I ceased to be  Chairman  early in its life. My colleague and your predecessor,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the honourable member for Scullin,  Dr Harry  Jenkins, was  Chairman  of that Committee at the time of the dissolution of the Parliament. The Committee carried out what I think was a very thorough examination of parliamentary committee systems and the existing and former committee systems which have been used by this Parliament. It was a joint committee and one on which a considerable amount of parliamentary experience existed. It was one of the few committees of this Parliament which had the opportunity to visit other countries in order to advance its work. It studied committee operations in both Canada and the United Kingdom, which have parliaments which we would look on as being comparable to our own. 
I think it is unfortunate that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his speech yesterday tended to pre-empt the decisions of the Committee. Some public statements which have been made also have tended to have that effect. I am not sure that I shall agree with the Committee's findings when they come down. Most honourable members will have their own ideas. But the Committee will recommend what is a consensus of a group of members of both Houses who have had the opportunity to take evidence in the broad, to examine in detail and to bring forward to this House and the Senate recommendations on a committee structure which will fulfil the needs of this House and the Senate now and in the future. 
I do not intend to try to forecast what type of committee system should be applied. What I do say is that when the report is presented I believe a number of things will be required. The first is that the recommendations of the Committee should be given a real opportunity by an extensive trial in the form in which the Committee brings them in. The other important aspect, I believe, is that the committees, if they are to function, will require the necessary back-up staff and facilities in order to make them viable. 
The Prime Minister in his speech mentioned 2 things which are in contradiction. Firstly, he said that Estimates committees or expenditure committees should be established. Then he said that they should operate within existing staff ceilings. If that type of committee is to be established and it is expected that the committee will bring forward to the Parliament recommendations or findings which will stand up to examination and criticism, which are well based and have been arrived at as a result of a proper investigative progress, the committee quite obviously will require expert staff in the areas of expenditure in order to service the members of that committee. That cannot be done within the existing staff ceilings of the committee office of either House or the Joint House Department, which has a limited committee arrangement. 
One of the areas where I would agree with the Prime Minister- I most likely would not agree with what he proposes on it and I do not think the  Clerk  or most likely a number of other people agree with me- is on the method by which the business of the House should be conducted. It is my belief that if committees are to be effective the means by which the business of the House can be conducted have to be evolved. A single line of business will not give this Parliament the necessary time to conduct the range of business which is desirable. I believe there are means available for this. I put my submissions before the Committee and I know that the Prime Minister did also. I read the evidence of his submissions. On the answers he gave to questions, I do not think he read mine. He certainly did not. If committees are to be effective they have to have places and times to meet which do not conflict with the meetings of the Parliament and the Parliament has to be able to deal with its own business without undue and impossible restriction. I think one of the problems which confronted the previous Parliament was its inability to cope with the business which the Government of the day required to be dealt with. I think there are means- as I said, I made my submissions on them- by which the time it takes to deal with the business of the House can be minimised without reducing the amount of time which honourable members have available to them for consideration of that business. 
There is one other matter which I should like to put before the House on this question and that is the importance of this Committee bringing down a report fairly quickly. I know that last year the previous Committee had reached a stage of being in final considerations. I hope that the Committee is able to proceed from that point to a resolution of its recommendations and does not have to go back into the area of hearing evidence. I suppose what I am saying is that I hope the personnel of the Committee is substantially that which considered the evidence last year and substantially able to put together the recommendations which will come before this House. I think it would be a tragedy- in parliamentary life it is quite likely- if those members who visited the House of Commons in London and the House of Commons in Ottawa to study their committee systems and who have submitted a preliminary report were not to offer themselves to participate in the drafting of the final report. I think the investment that the Parliament made in providing for those members the information which I am sure they have would be wasted if they did not participate in the final drafting of the report. The Opposition supports the establishment of the Committee and hopes that the Committee's work can be completed without haste but with some speed. 
-The Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House was one of the latest committees set up in the former Parliament. It has fairly extensive responsibilities with relation to Parliament House and the area in which the House is to be located. In any proposal to construct a new Parliament House it is the representative as a client of both Houses of this Parliament. The task which the Committee has to undertake immediately is the planning of the requirements of a new Parliament House. This work has already been done on one occasion by a former committee, so that the requirements really have to be updated to be put into a brief on which design work for a new Parliament House to be built on Capital Hill can commence. 
What I would say about the work of this Committee and the remarks made by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  when introducing the motion is that unless the work of this Committee goes forward at a regular pace and is not backed away from, as has happened so often in the past, we will run into a situation in the not too distant future in which major rebuilding of this building will become necessary. In my opinion that would be uneconomic and a waste of public funds. It could become necessary purely because no one is prepared to accept the political odium of spending money on providing a home for the national Parliament. Regrettably this building has in my opinion, passed the time of its useful life. It certainly does not, either in its basic design or in any extensions that are made have the capacity to house members and staff for another 20 years and that is the sort of timetable we are looking at unless this Committee goes ahead fairly continuously with the work with which it is charged. 
This building is made up of a fairly extensive series of additions each one made in an effort to meet the pressure of a particular time. Usually the extensions were finished 5 years after the assessments were made and therefore the building has never been capable of supporting the national Parliament properly. It certainly is not capable of supporting and providing the facilities  that the Parliament is entitled to at the moment. I invite honourable members to look at any part of this building except the coat of white paint on the front of the building when it is fresh. One of the problems that we face is that the building looks very nice from a distance and in photographs but very few people inspect it, except for Kings Hall or both chambers. Certainly those people who work in the building are a minority, and a very substantial minority, and those who are the decision makers work in conditions that are considerably better than the conditions provided for the majority of the occupants. 
Just look at any part of this building. The Press Gallery is a fire trap. It should not be occupied in its present condition. I do not suggest that someone should strike a match up there. If someone did there would be a tragedy in this building of a magnitude that would make world headlines because the building is not safe. Let me refer to the bottom parts of this building. I remind honourable members that because the Parliament is in a unique position it is exempt from the sort of requirements which are normally put on public buildings. The lower parts of this building are equally unserviceable. The building lacks proper storage space. It lacks proper accommodation for the members who work in it. Staff facilities are a total disgrace to the national Parliament. The facilities in the dining areas of this Parliament are equally poor and if this place were other than the national Parliament the government of the day would introduce laws which would prevent the 
Elace from operating. I say this advisedly in the knowledge that for at least 12 months I had the responsibility for this building. The problem that we face is that this is always the last priority for the expenditure of funds. I do not care which Party is in office. Even though honourable members opposite say that the Labor Party spent money like water, I can assure the House that there was not a drop spilled in this building. It is not a satisfactory building for the national parliament 
The Committee which we are appointing has an urgent task to set down the guidelines for those who will prepare a design brief and those who are in government at the time when that design brief is finally prepared have a responsibility not only to the members of Parliament but to the nation itself to provide a parliament house which can serve the nation properly and which can provide those faculties which a parliament should have and facilities to enable those people charged with the responsibilities of running the country to work effectively. In 1976 it is a disgrace that members of this Parliament do not have sufficient space in which to accommodate themselves. They share rooms. There is certainly no way in which proper staffing could be provided to members in this building unless the people who are put on the staff are prepared to work in the trees outside the building because there is no room inside it for any additional people. 
I do not want to extend my speech much beyond what I have said, but I think that sometimes someone should honestly say exactly what does exist and in this sense no one can say I am playing politics. This is a matter with which every member of this Parliament ought to be concerned because the work output and the value of the work output, not only of the members but also of the people who work in the building and are more disadvantaged than the members because they have to work here all the time, must be affected by the unsatisfactory nature of the building. The Parliamentary Library is cramped. It is divided. Half its services are outside the building. The committee secretariats and the backup staffs of the Parliament are outside the building. They are housed in accommodation which is of such a nature that anyone who wanted to make any alterations would have to get out the business directory of Australia, go through it from A to Z and get approval from everyone on the list. There are some 7 authorities to be contacted before a leak in the roof of the Hotel Canberra can be mended. I hope that the Minister for the Capital Territory has not been through that exercise yet. Before the Treasury is contacted I think there are 5 separate authorities which have to give approval to mend the roof. Some of the major facilities of the Parliament are housed in the Hotel Canberra. I think I have spoken long enough to make the point that I was trying to make. This Committee has a job to do. Not only has it a job to do, but when it has done it someone has to accept the responsibility of carrying through its recommendations. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: In view of confusion which quite obviously exists in a lot of people's minds, could he inform the House whether the guidelines so far established and discussed on a separate State income tax will allow expansion of a State's taxes without any reference to other States or to the overall tax burden which will be applied to the general community? I remind the Prime Minister that a lot of people are concerned about this particular area, especially the levels of State taxes which will become possible in individual States. 
I second the motion. I think that the motion should be carried unanimously by this House. I think that the suspension of the Standing Orders is a matter of the most extreme urgency. This is not a question of party politics. It is a question of risk to the parliamentary system which should be dealt with forthwith and very strongly by this Parliament. It is within the compass of any parliament in the Commonwealth to be called together for a special session to deal with or to hear matter which could be extraordinarily damaging to members of another parliament, especially during an election period. I say with respect that it would be possible for a State parliament or this Parliament to be called together, although I believe that this Parliament's integrity is such that it would not happen, or for a House of a parliament to be called together to entertain a statement which had no basis in fact against a leader of a party or a member of a party in order to affect the result of an election in another State or for another Parliament. 
The urgency of the matter is that I believe it should be dealt with by this House immediately and unquestionably it should be the expression of this House to condemn the making of false charges during an election period. 
I am expressing why I believe the Standing Orders should be suspended so that this matter can be dealt with without delay. It is a matter of extreme urgency. Privilege is designed to protect members of parliament in the legitimate pursuit of their duties. I do not consider it a legitimate pursuit of the duties of members of parliament to lay false charges in order to affect the result of an election. I hasten to say that I do not think the charges made by the Premier of Queensland did alter the result of the election. I want that made quite clear. But the fact is that far more substantive charges or charges of a different nature could be made against a member. 
I use a hypothetical case in order to illustrate that, with your indulgence,  Mr Speaker.  It is quite possible that charges of a personal nature could be made. It could be said that a solicitor who was a candidate or a leader of a party had shortages in or had misappropriated his trust funds. Any such charge could be made on the floor of a State parliament during debate and would not have to be substantiated. It would then be carried immediately by the Press and certainly would have an influence on the result of an election that might be held 2 days later. It is urgent and important that this House should express its contempt for such actions or the use of parliaments in that manner. I ask the House to carry the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders and then to carry the motion which would follow, because if this House does not express its contempt for that type of action it is concurring in that type of action by default and allowing itself to be open to such actions in the future. 
I will leave a couple of minutes in this debate to enable the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to reply. I also am aware of a number of cases similar to the one raised by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  I want to raise very briefly a matter which is of some concern to me and I would hope also the Minister. I have been informed that a number of people are likely to be retrenched at the Godfrey Hirst mills in Geelong because of the lack of protection or because of competition in the market and a falling off in sales of carpets. This is allied to the falling off in the building and other construction areas. 
The company concerned has approached the appropriate Minister. He has said that unless it can show that substantial damage has been done to a substantial proportion of the industry then a reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority cannot be made. I point out that if the company has to wait until substantial damage is done then the retrenchments will have already taken place. There are about 164 people involved at these mills. It will then be too late to repair the damage. I would like the Minister to take up this matter with the appropriate Minister because he will be as aware as I am of the difficulties that persons displaced in this manner will have in finding alternative employment. 
-The first thing we should recognise in this debate on the ministerial statement on unemployment benefit and the work test made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  is that it is an economic measure designed by the Government to cut expenditure, not one aimed at toughening the work test and curing the problem created by the people whom the Government chooses to term 'dole bludgers'. We should recognise that a decision has been taken and if this work test does not meet the situation a new one will be introduced. The number on unemployment benefit has to be reduced by one-third. Some of the criteria look innocent enough. If the Government keeps on talking about dole bludgers and impresses on people that someone is getting something that they are not getting, or something that they are paying for, it will find it easy to achieve community support. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the decision announced last night in a statement on commercial vehicles not to pursue the increased tariff on trucks in the 2.72 tonnes to 10.16 tonnes area which had been agreed to by the previous Government, is it the intention of this Government to phase out the manufacture in Australia of trucks, of which the International Harvester Company is a major manufacturer and considers itself to be under substantial threat at the rates which were adopted in the report made last night, based upon recommendations made in 1974? 
-I have heard some rather emotive speeches in my time. I will accept that the honourable gentleman should have spent some sleepless nights about this clause because the reason given by the Government for the deletion of the pensioner's funeral benefit is to save money. On the first night I spent in this Parliament- if you want the record of your Party- the then Treasurer, the now right honourable William McMahon, gave the pensioners sitting in the gallery here a very large dose of sympathy and no money. By the time the Budget was passed the Government which had no money for pensioners, was able to find $120m for devaluation compensation for another section of the community. Now the Government finds it necessary to abolish a benefit which is costing less than $2m. The benefit could be doubled, or made a respectable benefit of around $150 or $200, for less than $4m. This Government is abolishing it; we did not. Honourable members opposite laugh about abolishing it. Yet they, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  and others, will go to their pensioners' meetings and tell them what good fellows they are when they are taking $40 from a pensioner who is trying to cope with the traumatic problem of burying his or her partner. 
Honourable members on the other side can laugh. I can assure them this is not funny, and their Government is not doing it to improve the lots of pensioners. It is not doing it as a result of an election promise. It would not be in power if it had told them this was its intention. If honourable members opposite had the courage of their convictions- which they have not- they would be voting with us to prevent the abolition of this clause. I will not be surprised at all if this clause in fact is returned to the BUI when it comes back to this House. Do not be surprised; there are people with conscience although regrettably they may not be in this place. I am suggesting that your record, despite what you may promise to do- and if you carry out your promises in full it will be less than was done in the last 3 years - 
You are putting up what you are going to do against what has been done. The honourable member may know everything, I am not sure. AU I know is that you are going to sit in this chamber and vote to take $40 from the partner of a dead pensioner to save $700,000 this year- to reduce the $4,000m deficit to a deficit of $3,999m. That is what this Government proposes to do. Such a sum is not even worth considering in terms of the size of the Federal Budget. This is a psychological move designed purely to create a political atmosphere in which other expenditure cuts will be more acceptable and in which people will say. 'If the Government has to take it off the pensioners, it will have to take it off other people'. Honourable members opposite talk about using people as political footballs! That is exactly what they are doing. They do not like it and I do not blame them for not liking it. That is a fact. If honourable members opposite want to hear a bit more of their record, I will tell them what happened. 
After seeing the sympathy for the pensioners demonstrated by the right honourable member for Lowe when he was Treasurer, we had a nationwide campaign in 1970 to try to get the pensioners a decent increase that year. They did not get it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-I  call the honourable member for Corio. 
-I think the honourable member is making sure that everyone understands exactly where he stands on this matter. He has no feeling for pensioners- only contempt. He believes that they can be used as he is using them. 
The honourable gentleman may say that and get away with it because he has the numbers. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Corio has far more experience in this Chair than I have. I must remind him that he must not reflect on an honourable member - 
I am not reflecting on an honourable member. If I did, I would withdraw the remark. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  If the honourable member did not, his language was bordering on being unparliamentary to the honourable member. 
-I would not wish to interrupt a good speech by making reflections on an honourable member. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I am sorry if I have interrupted a good speech. I invite the honourable member for Corio to address his remarks through the Chair every now and again. I call the honourable member for Corio. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
-If the honourable gentleman had been listening, he would have heard that I withdrew the remark that he found offensive before he found it offensive. 
-If the honourable member took his fingers out of his ears and cleaned the wax out of his ears, he might be able to hear. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Order! There is no need for the honourable member to be deliberately offensive or provocative. I was - 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, if I may say so, the honourable member - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -Would the honourable member kindly retain his peace while I am speaking. I did not hear any withdrawal by the honourable member for Corio. I am prepared to accept what he says. But I think that he had better not continue to reflect on any honourable member. I call the honourable member for Corio. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I think that you may have missed a few dozen reflections from that area of the chamber and one in particular in which the honourable member called me a liar. Apparently, that is not unparliamentary. 
This debate is about a $40 benefit for pensioners. It is about a Government decision as a result of which honourable members opposite will bravely come to the party and vote to delete that payment. That will make a magnificent difference to the Budget deficit later this year. Honourable members will not be able to see even a change of position in the decimal point in the amount shown on the balance sheet following this action. But the pensioner who loses this $40 will lose something important. If honourable members opposite believe that the Opposition should applaud this as some sort of magnificent economic action, they have another think coming. 
I return to what I was saying when I was interrupted. Honourable members opposite talk about using people as political footballs. Tacked on to the end of the first speech delivered by the then new Prime Minister in 1970- it was inserted only to catch a headline- was a statement in which he threw 50c to the pensioners. 
Yes, it meant a lot. That was the increase in one year. Of course, the honourable gentleman at that stage most likely was at school. That amount of money would have bought him about 5 ice creams. The facts of the matter are that this is a despicable action aimed at those people least able to defend themselves, least able to afford it and least able to gain the political momentum which is necessary for them to reject what the Government is doing. If the Government took an equivalent amount of money off some of the people to whom it has just given a very substantial handout by way of the superphosphate bounty, people who do not need it - 
-Of course I do not understand. I do not understand, if I may address my remarks through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  how members of the National Country Party can agree to give one man who has no need of the money an amount equivalent to 2000 funeral benefits and support that move as a great act and then say in the Parliament that the Government cannot afford $700,000 this year to maintain this funeral benefit. I hope that what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  said eventually becomes true- that a better, modern benefit replaces this benefit- I do not believe that if the Government removes a benefit now it will replace it at some time in the sweet bye and bye with another benefit. If another benefit was being placed on the record now to replace this benefit we would not be seeking to remove this clause. No other benefit is mooted. The much vaunted indexation of pensions has been talked about for 3 years. Make no mistake about that fact. 
Finally, I want to say this: After much promising the last time the Liberal Party and the Country Party came out of Opposition into Government, in their first 5 years in office they managed to reduce the pension rate for married couples from 70 per cent of the basic wage at that time to 54 per cent of the basic wage. I have no doubt they will do it again. 
-This debate is the culmination of 12 years of frustration and the correction or partial correction of a mistake made some considerable time ago. Having said that, I think I also have to say that I do not believe that the policy on the motor car industry as announced in this House last week will survive until 1984. In fact, I will be surprised if some parts of it survive until 1977. The problems that face the car industry, and the commercial vehicles industry which is also the subject of this statement, are more diverse than can be solved by the simple solution of taking what is academically or economically the correct course. There are people involved, both as consumers and as employees in the industry. The plan, as it is now being adopted and as it was devised by the former Government, will cause restructuring in the industry and a great deal of trauma. 
I am concerned, obviously, about the situation in Geelong which I represent in this place, because the car industry is the most substantial employer of labour in that area. Unfortunately, because of some political chicanery back in the 1950s, it constitutes not the total industry of the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd but the manufacturing side of the industry and it is the design and manufacture side of the industry which is at greatest risk. This plan, whilst it is most likely the best that can be devised if the industry is to survive in total, also poses a very serious threat to about 50 per cent of the employees in the industry in Geelong. That is what concerns me. That is what prompted me last year and prompts me now to question the advisability of the total plan which has been announced. I  seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  some comments which I circulated last year and responses to them by people in the industry in Geelong, including the Ford motor company and Department of Transport officers. These were all made in the middle of last year. They are comments on the plan which was adopted in late 1974 but which substantially is the plan that is now before the House. There are 4 documents. 
The types of problems that I see for the industry are that, if we accept that the 2 Japanese firms are to come into the industry and if we accept that economic viability or an ability to compete in the market place is based on production runs, then we must also accept that S firms cannot operate within the market that exists. That is impossible; but this plan envisages S firms attempting to operate, plus two or three assemblers on whom quotas have been lifted. Those assemblers are required to meet an additional S per cent tariff, but in fact their quotas have been lifted and therefore they eat into that part of the market which belongs to the manufacturers under existing circumstances. At the end of this year the quota on the 90 000 imported vehicles will also be lifted. I hasten to say that I believe that it will be forced off before the end of this year because of the difficulties with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade that already exist and because of the difficulties in the balance of trade which I think honourable members will understand. The plans now before us constitute a drop in security, if such is possible, for people in the industry in my area and in South Australia because of some changes which have taken place. The complementation arrangements have been dropped. More significantly, the non-reversion provisions have been dropped. This is something that the car companies asked for originally. This places at risk not only the people working directly in the car companies, because reversion can take place without any reference to government or without any justification; it also places at risk the component suppliers who can and will be subjected to pressure by manufacturers to meet commitments which they cannot meet, or else lose the contracts to overseas or other suppliers. Component suppliers will be placed in much the same area as some of the smaller suppliers to the big chain stores in food and other areas, who are always subject to the threat that their businesses are dependent on the big chain stores and that they will go to the wall unless they do what the big chain stores say. This will happen to component suppliers-I do not think there is any doubt about it- and they now have no protection. Previously they could go to the reversion committee. 
The new plans also enable the reversion of equipment which may well be vital to employment in some area or another. Panels and tooling are obviously vital to employment in the Geelong area. I believe that there are means by which that employment can be protected to some degree- or at least encouraged- which will not mean an alteration in the plans. It seems that these are high cost and high employment areas with regional consequences. At the moment the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd has a fairly substantial and fairly modern plant in the Geelong area but that will eventually fall due for replacement and at that time the temptation to take panel manufacturing outside Australia will become great. I understand that a new model is due to enter the design and tooling stages. I imagine that it will certainly have to reach those stages within the next 12 months if it is to meet the market requirements of 1 979, 1 980 and 1 98 1 when a new model car will be expected from the Ford Motor Company. General Motors-Holden Pry Ltd has a similar time-table although it has already announced that there will be no further Australian designs. 
If there is no designing there will be no tooling and panelling and that is where the threat to employment exists in this industry. Whilst it may be easy for the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  to say that this is an economic use of resources, those people will become what Government supporters call dole bludgers because opportunities for alternative employment do not exist in those areas. It is important and significant that the situation should be looked at in that regard. I suggest that the means that can be and should be considered are special investment allowances, depreciation allowances and other forms of concessions which are used in the United States, Canada and some European countries such as West Germany to encourage tooling and other highly skilled areas of the motor car industry to remain in those countries. 
We have not tackled this type of protection of skill in Australia. As we move into what people describe as efficient areas of production in each industry, what we are doing is removing the skilled areas of designing and tooling. They are being moved out of Australia and those skills are becoming redundant in those industries. We are importing the skilled work and we are turning our employees in the motor car industry into production line workers. The first thing that has been lost to the car industry- even though the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  shakes his head- is the highly skilled design team which was built up under plans introduced by a Government of the honourable member's political colour. It was possibly a mistake but nevertheless highly skilled design teams were built up. These teams are leaving the electronics industry and they are going out of other industries just as quickly. We ought to be considering whether we believe Australians are capable of participating, and should be encouraged to participate, in highly skilled and saleable activities such as design and tool making as well as bolting together panels for which in most other car industries throughout the world imported labour is used. There is hardly a Western country where the labour force in the production lines of the motor car industry consists of natives of that country. Local people may be employed at the moment because of the recession in the industry but, a couple of years ago, if one went to Germany one found Yugoslavs doing such work. If one went to Australian factories one found Greeks and Yugoslavs doing it. If one went to the Swedish factories one found Finnish people doing it and if one went to the United States factories one found Negroes doing it. Those countries have always operated on the basis that someone else should do this terrible work, and this is the only part of our industry we appear to be able to maintain if we believe what the Industries Assistance Commission said in its 1974 report and contradicted in its 1975 report. I recommend that honourable members who have faith in that organisation read the 2 reports. They are totally contradictory. 
Another part of the IAC report which is significant and ought to be commented on relates to commercial vehicles. International Harvester Australia Ltd is the only major manufacturer in Australia of medium trucks. It manufactures a truck which has close to 85 per cent local content. It needs a level of protection higher than 25 per cent and this has not been provided in the IAC report. I understand that the company could go to the Temporary Assistance Authority but I hope that it has more success than most of those who have been to that particular body because it has a record of almost 100 per cent rejection. It may be that the retirement of  Mr Rattigan  will be a boon for Australian industry seeking assistance. It is certainly a retirement that I personally welcome although some other honourable members, on both sides of the House, may not- it depends on whether one is a free trader or a protectionist and I am a protectionist. The International Harvester Co. is the front runner in Australia in that area. It has substantial manufacturing and designing components in Australia. Because of the way in which this report has been presented that company has something like 800 employees immediately at risk. 
The honourable member may talk about Dandenong; I will talk about 
Geelong where 500 people are at risk. The proposals in this area are not satisfactory. They mean, in fact, that the only manufacture and design capacity for our truck industry in Australia is about to disappear. Everyone else in the industry is an assembler and 25 per cent is not sufficient protection. The car industry under this plan will obtain an almost permanent 45 per cent protection against imports yet we expect the truck firms to compete on 25 per cent protection. There is no evidence to suggest that imports will fall below 20 per cent and, as I see it, there is no evidence to suggest that truck manufacture can survive in areas where it is a major factor, that is, from 10. 16 tonnes down to 2.72 tonnes. It cannot survive in that area on a protection level of 25 per cent. 
Prior to the change of government it had been decided by the Australian Labor Party Caucus that protection of 35 per cent would be given to that area of the industry. There was some discussion over the manufacture of vehicles 2 tonnes heavier and that delayed a Cabinet decision, but the decision to give that protection had been made. I hope that the Government will have another look at that area and do so quickly. I do not think that a reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority is the means by which long term planning for design and manufacture can be established. Finally, I think it is important that the House understand that this plan, whether recommended by a Labor or a Liberal Government, is one which will damage a very large employing industry in Australia. I do not think I can put forward proposals. I would hope that the situation in Geelong is not as bad as the union thinks it is. But one has to look at the possible worst side. I would commend to the Government a look at proposals whereby encouragement of another sort can be given to companies which are prepared to maintain tooling and design in Australia because they are skilled areas which this country ought to be able to encourage and maintain. 
-The Opposition will not oppose this motion, but it will oppose the second proposition, Notice of Motion No. 2. The motion moved by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is fairly obvious proof that when something is the same it is not the same. This proposition which is now on the Notice Paper was unsuccessfully proposed by me to the Standing Orders Committee in 1973 and a combination of present Government and present Opposition supporters voted in favour of a proposition which would have allowed honourable members to speak for 6 minutes as opposed to a period of S minutes with honourable members being permitted to speak a second time. Last year whilst I was  Speaker  of this House I wrote to both the Opposition Parties and the then Government Party because like the present  Speaker  I was dissatisfied with the manner in which the adjournment debate operated and also the restricted nature of only 3 speakers being able to speak for 10 minutes each on the adjournment debate and I asked whether they would agree to accept as a sessional order a 5- minute speaking period on the adjournment debate. Both of the present Government Parties responded in the negative. They said they were not prepared to give up their two 10-minute slots on the adjournment, which at that stage was being applied by the Chair. They were not prepared to accept a 5-minute speaking period. They wished to retain the 10-minute period. I think that was unfortunate because at that stage I think that proposition should have been adopted. We do not object to a trial period being undertaken now. It may be that honourable members will find that it is difficult to cope in the early stages with a 5-rninute speaking period, but it is my opinion that honourable members will learn that when they want to raise matters on an adjournment debate they will have to do a little more work so that they can put forward their views within a 5-minute period because most of the things that honourable members do wish to raise on the adjournment can be dealt with in a fairly short period. 
As the Minister has already spoken to Notice of Motion No. 2 I also will speak to that proposition because it will save time. The Opposition is opposed to Notice of Motion No. 2 because I think firstly it will move away from what has become an established practice in the House of adjourning the House at 1 1 o'clock. Secondly, it provides that a Minister may enter the debate to answer matters raised in the debate. Under this proposition the Minister will be able to speak for a period not exceeding 10 minutes. Normally the 
Minister would follow another Government member, but more importantly a Minister can enter the debate as a private member to debate a matter which may have been raised in the debate but which has nothing at all to do with his ministerial responsibilities in this House or the Minister he represents in this place. There is all the difference in the world in giving a Minister a right to answer a particular matter, such as the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  who may speak on the matter of immigration which is raised in the debate, and in providing for a Minister a period of 10 minutes in which to put on a political tirade against the Opposition or against someone else which normally would have been part of the adjournment debate. 
The Opposition believes that we should not depart from the 1 1 o'clock rule. We feel that if a Minister has to enter the debate, then, as has happened in the past, he should enter as the last  speaker  on the Government side which would normally be a Minister. I am aware that the Government has the numbers to carry this second proposition but we will oppose it. If the Government decides that it will use its numbers to extend this proposal during or after the trial period I suggest that it may give consideration to providing protection for members of the Opposition by amending this proposition to restrict a Minister's right of reply to certain matters. It can be done by writing appropriate words after the word 'matters' which appears in the foreshadowed motion. The  Clerk  will be able to tell the Minister what I propose. Real protection should be given to the Opposition. The Opposition has decided it is going to oppose Notice of Motion No. 2 and we will divide on it. 
-I ask the Minister for Health whether he is able to provide any information on whether a decision has been made or when a decision will be made to continue the national animal health laboratories project at Geelong. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Have any directives been issued regarding the number of Ministerial staff allowed to accompany a Minister while travelling. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the staff establishment of the Lodge as at 23 March 1976. 
What is the current salary paid to each member of the staff. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he indicated by letter to the Victorian Minister for Local Government that funds to finance the Geelong Growth Centre Program will be made available by the Commonwealth Government. 
2) If so, did he indicate in the letter that these funds would be available in the 1976-77 Budget. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the statement on the motor vehicle industry constitute the Government's fulfilment of his undertaking to ensure that panelling and tooling of Ford vehicles will continue at Geelong. 
If so, under what section of the statement are such guarantees contained. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the Government's humiliation in this case is not a reason why the House should adopt the report - 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Oxley speaking on the matter related to the abolition of funeral benefits. 
-It is the intention of the Opposition to oppose the establishment of a standing committee on public expenditure at this stage. The Opposition is opposed to it for a number of reasons, the most important of which is that this motion is before the House in order to pre-empt the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. That Committee has made one report to this House. In it it recommended that the present Public Accounts Committee become a House of Representatives committee, that it have 1 5 members and that its existing terms of reference be extended to cover items such as are envisaged in this motion. The Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System was established during the previous Parliament. It had been instructed to report by 26 May next. It sought information from Canada and London on expenditure committees and similar committees and has gathered a considerable amount of evidence on their effectiveness and otherwise. I believe that Committee was not terribly enamoured of that type of committee. The suggestion made in its interim report is I believe the type of recommendation which would have been made by the Committee had it been left to its own devices in bringing forward its considered report on a matter which this Parliament charged it with the responsibility of investigating. It is now in the position where the House is considering a motion which will in all probability be forced through the House in its present form and that Committee will be required to report within 4 weeks after the House has expressed an opinion on such a committee. 
The terms of reference of the proposed committee have considerable weaknesses for a parliamentary committee of this nature. It is to be a committee of this House and it is to act as a watchdog over government expenditure. However, if honourable members examine the proposals concerning the appointment of members to that committee they will see that instead of such appointments being made, as I believe by the usual means, by the  Speaker-  although in practical terms the result would be the same- the leaders of the political parties, who naturally have vested political interests, are to make the nominations. The  Speaker  should have been given the task of nominating the members. This would have divorced political leaders from making the appointments. I would hope that the Government supporters who have examined the proposal, who are so concerned about this matter and who seek to pre-empt the work of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System would support my suggestion that the  Speaker  should nominate members to the committee rather than 6 members being nominated by the Prime Minister and 5 members by the Leader of the Opposition. If the course I suggest were followed the proposed committee would at least originate in this House. 
I also challenge the proposal in the motion that a senator may serve on the committee or nominate a person to serve on it. This is to be a committee of the House of Representatives and I do not think it proper that a person not a member of this House should have the right to nominate a member to a committee of this House. It is proposed that the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee or his nominee will be a member of the proposed committee. If honourable members read the explanatory memorandum which was circulated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  they will see that it is envisaged that there would be such a nominee if the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee were a senator. So the proposition is that a senator may nominate a person as a member of this committee. The actual terms of the motion do not prevent the senator himself serving on the committee, even though it is to be a House of Representatives committee. He can serve on it by right, not by election. It would be better if the terms of this motion were such that the committee had the right to invite the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee to participate in its deliberations without the right to vote or to be nominated on sub-committees. Alternatively a member of the House of Representatives to be nominated by the committee could be invited to join that committee if the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee were a senator. 
My own inclination is that we should not be considering this motion at this time. The Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System should have been paid the courtesy of being allowed to conclude its deliberations without its role being pre-empted and without it having imposed on it the pressure which will result from the carriage of mis motion establishing a public expenditure committee. 
There are a number of other matters which are of concern. If the committee is to be a watchdog committee, if it is to be charged with the responsibility of acting on behalf of this House in examining expenditure of the Government, it is essential that it should have available to it the proper staff which is competent and able to carry out the duties. That is not possible under the present staff ceilings within the parliamentary establishment unless other committees are dissolved or substituted. I see no evidence of that being done at the moment. If the Prime Minister sticks to the proposition which he put in this House that staffing must come within existing ceilings, the committee will in fact be unable to carry out the very high-minded principles which are expressed in its terms of reference because it will not have the technical competence to carry out the duties which the House has designated. 
This is a serious matter. If a committee of this nature is to give the imprimatur of this House to inquire into expenditures of governments which this House approves, that committee must be serviced in a manner which will justify its having the imprimatur of this House. I question whether the committee should be serviced by staff that may be made available under the existing ceilings rather than by the staff that is required for the committee to function efficiently and properly. I am not asking for the committee to be serviced by some great mass of staff. In fact if the original proposition of the Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System were adopted the staff required would very largely become available because a committee which is operating largely in the same area would have absorbed this function and become a House of Representatives committee and staff transferred from the joint committee to the House of Representatives committee would be available and would consist substantially of persons expert in the field. But it is no good coming into this 
House with high-minded ideals if one is not prepared to put up the wherewithal for those ideals to be pursued with effect and in accordance with what this House is entitled to expect of a committee of this nature if such a committee is established. 
The Opposition also believes that the part of the motion which requires that the  chairman  of the committee must be elected from those members nominated by the Prime Minister should also be deleted. We believe that, in accordance with the Standing Orders of this House, the members of the committee should elect the  chairman.  Obviously there will be a majority of Government supporters on the committee and there is no doubt that they will be able to elect the  chairman  they wish to have. But I do not believe that the committee should have foisted upon it a requirement that it shall elect a person from the Prime Minister's nominees. I do not expect Government members of the committee to depart from the practice of electing a Government member as  chairman.  This is the normal practice in this Parliament. But the committee is supposed to be a committee of this House established to serve this House and not the Executive. In fact the committee is supposed to be effective in the reverse way in that it is to act as a watchdog for this House over the expenditures approved by the Executive. That cannot be seen to be done if we have a situation where the chief executive officer nominates the majority of members of the committee and the  chairman  of the committee is required to be chosen from the members he nominates. 
I do not think that the Parliament is sufficiently adult in its thinking and approach to this type of problem at this stage to accept the proposition that an Opposition chairman be appointed but I believe that at least we ought to write into the proposals for the committee a proposition which would allow the committee, if it chose to do so, to elect any one of its members as its chairman. 
I think that the proposal to establish the committee is premature. I think that this House would be done a service if the proposition were not proceeded with at this time. Apparently the Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System has to report before 26 May. That Committee could be asked to make an immediate report to this Parliament in respect of expenditure committees and we could base our judgment on its report. As a result of my insistence this Parliament sent a group of members of Parliament to the United Kingdom House of Commons and the Canadian House of Commons to see how expenditure committees worked in what I would think are comparable parliaments. These members were able to gain considerable knowledge which has not been generally available to members because the documentation in respect of this subject does not really put forward the realities. These members are at present involved in drafting their report. They have made an interim report in which they suggest a different proposition which should be acceptable to this House because it meets 2 criteria: It enables the staffing to be provided and also it enables an existing committee with expertise and competence to be given a job which it can do on behalf of this House. The Joint Committee would be relieved of its responsibilities, the Senate would be able to carry out its responsibilities and this House would be able to carry out its preliminary responsibilities for finance. 
I return to the proposition with which I commenced my speech. I am concerned that the parliamentary committee system is being preempted by the proposal to set up another committee on what is in fact the Prime Minister's initiative. I do not dispute his point that he has supported the establishment of this type of committee for a long time. He like myself and many other members gave evidence to the Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System and expressed a point of view. I believe that the Committee should be allowed to exercise its judgment and to make its recommendations on the propositions which have been put to it and on the evidence it has been able to acquire. It should be able to make its recommendations on the basis of what it considers is the best rationale for a committee system for this House. 
I believe it is unfortunate that this motion is before us for adoption at a time when the committee which was charged with the responsibility is in fact drafting its report. I would hope that Government supporters will take this matter seriously because if the committee is set up in the form stated in the motion it will be set up as a committee forced on the Parliament by the Executive as a watchdog for the Executive. We know that private members have had a say in how this should be done. But the facts of the matter are that this proposition has been brought forward and is being discussed in this House at a time when a committee charged with the responsibility is going through its report preparatory to presenting that report to this Parliament within a very short period of time. 
As I stated at the outset of my speech, the Opposition opposes the setting up of this committee at this time. We would seriously ask that a reexamination be made of some of the proposals set down in the motion. I refer especially to the proposal concerning the election of the  chairman,  the proposal which seeks to give the  chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee or his nominee the right to serve on the committee and the proposal in respect to the nomination of members. I believe that without any loss to anybody it would not be unreasonable if the  Speaker  nominated the members of the committee. I would prefer that there be 15 members rather than 1 1 members but I do not think that I will pursue that point. I believe that the committee should have the responsibility of inviting the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee or another person recommended by that Committeeif that Committee is to continue- to serve on the committee. I believe such a decision should be the prerogative of the expenditure committee itself. Such a decision should not be forced on it by the House. It is possible that a senator could serve on the committee. The motion contains a clause that its provisions will have effect even if they are in conflict with our Standing Orders. But I think that the matters I have mentioned could be adopted without any great difficulty to the Government and would result in a better committee. But until the report of the Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System is received the Opposition will continue to oppose the establishment of this committee. We believe that the Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System should be given the chance to which it is entitled to make its report and to have its report considered as a whole by the House. At the moment the House may impose something which the Committee may well recommend against. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order. The honourable member's time has expired. 
I  want to raise briefly one or two matters which are of concern. They deal with the aircraft industry which at present is in a state of some flux. I understand that the Nomad program which has been carried out by the Government Aircraft Factories is in some jeopardy and that the Government Aircraft Factories have been informed that unless the next aircraft is delivered on time a review of future manufacture of the aircraft will be undertaken. The concern I wish to express to the House of course is that I do not believe that, in a commercial and competitive field, the Government Aircraft Factories are being given anything like a fair opportunity. The factory is told it must deliver aircraft on time. It is subject to all sorts of restrictions which are imposed because it is operating under a public service type structure in a commercially competitive field. It is limited by Treasury regulations to one or two suppliers of specific items which it must buy- suppliers who are late in the provision of those supplies. The factory is able but not permitted to use alternative sources of supply which would enable it to meet its timetables and to make it more competitive in the price of its aircraft. 
It is a serious matter. The Nomad aircraft is saleable and extremely good but it is rapidly being priced out of the market by the control of the Public Service and the Treasury. I believe this is one example where the use of fiscal control is costing rather than saving money. I think there are a multitude of these examples which could be cited throughout the normal Public Service operations. But in this case a project which I think has been handled fairly skilfully by a dedicated group of people working for this Government in Australia is in jeopardy because those people are tied hand and foot in the procurement of the basis to manufacture an aircraft which they must sell on a commercial market. I ask that immediate inquiries be made into any bottlenecks which exist which would prevent the Government Aircraft Factories from efficiently handling the procurement of needed supplies. 
I am also concerned because this is an industry in which in the last three or four years there has been some reasonable stability of employmenta situation which had not existed over a long period. I am now informed that there is a threat of retrenchment to slightly less than 50 per cent of the people employed in this industry. This industry could not survive such a loss of skilled personnel. If it occurred it would inevitably result in the industry ceasing to be viable in Australia. 
I raise this matter because it is of some consequence. I hope that the responsible Minister will have a look at what I have had to say and give me a reply when he is able to consider these matters. This project is of value. It has been carried through for a number of years. It was initiated under a Liberal government prior to 1972. It has produced a product which is commercially acceptable but is being prevented from being properly marketed by what I would have to say is bureaucratic control and the application to a commercial venture of Public Service type regulations. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, on notice: 
Is the 40 cents charge for telegram delivery discriminatory against persons who do not have a private telephone service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister satisfied that the present high local content of medium trucks achieved by International Harvester Corporation can be maintained with a tariff rate of 25 per cent. 
If not, does the decision to adopt the 25 percent rate of tariff arise from a decision by the Government to encourage discontinuance of the high local content in commercial vehicles. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he received a recommendation from the Postal Commission on the rates of postage required to achieve financial viability in respect of its operations. 
If so, was the recommended base postal rate 23 to 25 cents. 
When can an announcement be expected on the Government 's decision on the recommendations. 
-I move: That the Deputy Speaker's ruling be dissented from. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it is not possible for the Opposition to accept a ruling on the basis on which this ruling has been made. I do not want to prolong debate on this matter. However, I think that the Opposition has to express its serious concern at the ruling that has been given. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
On what date will his undertaking made in Geelong to restore full Government financial support to the Geelong Air Cadets be honoured. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he directed or has a direction been Issued that girls who refuse employment away from their homes are to be refused unemployment benefit. 
If so, has this direction been implemented to force girls to accept seasonal employment where minimal accommodation is available and privacy not considered. 
Is it considered to be a reasonable condition to apply that, unless girls are prepared to leave home and occupy mixed accommodation, they will be refused unemployment benefit. 
-I have never heard so much pious nonsense from a Minister as we have just heard. 
-The honourable member for Bendigo may not realise it, but the major industry in his electorate is the care of the aged, and it is a very worthwhile industry. I suggest that if he treated the question as seriously as it should be treated he would be up supporting us on this matter. The question confronting the Opposition is: What does the clause mean? The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has not been able to explain it to the Committee. He does not know what it means. The fact is that a clause has been written into this legislation to make the completion of this program virtually open-ended. It is legislative deferment. We have heard from the Minister talk about getting the economy back into shape and about how the poor are the ones who have to suffer. 
I hear an honourable member saying: 'Hear, hear! ' I do not support that point of view. 
-The honourable member for Evans may believe that the poor are the people who have to be punished. That is what he just said 'hear, hear! ' to. He may scream now, but he says 'hear hears! ' when I say that the Minister has claimed that the poor have to be punished.  (Honourable members interjecting) 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr MartinOrder! The Committee will come to order. It is getting completely out of order. 
-The fact of the matter is that the costs of the benefits being put forward by this Government are to be borne by the people who cannot afford them. This is one of the measures - 
-A lot of people on fixed incomes at the moment are carrying your burden. They took your advice on where they should invest their savings and they have not got them any more. So do not let us hear any pious nonsense from you. 
The first of the money saving measures was the abolition of a paltry funeral benefit. When that measure was before the House I said that it would be defeated in the Senate, and it was. We now have the proposals to cut personal and company income tax. In order to pay for that the Government is to impose a flat rate tax for Medibank and impose television licence fees which pensioners who do not pay tax will have to pay instead of having the money paid from income tax. I think honourable members opposite ought to look at exactly what are the policies of their Government. They are to transfer income from the poor to the rich. Every action which has been taken is in this vein. 
-The honourable gentleman suggests that we speak to the clause. The purpose of the changes proposed in this legislation is to extend  ad infinitum  the completion of a program to provide accommodation. A few minutes ago we heard an honourable member saying that people had sold their houses a year ago in anticipation of this provision. There is nothing in the Bill which guarantees that this accommodation will be built at all. 
-I suggest that honourable members opposite who say that there is no money left have a look at the situation when they want to pass legislation costing the Treasury money. When it suits them there is money; when it does not suit them there is no money. I well remember my first night in this chamber, when the only thing available for pensioners was sympathy. They could not get a pension rise. But before the Budget of that year had been passed, $ 120m had been found to fund compensation for devaluation losses. There was no money for pensioners, but when money was needed for other purposes, it was there. The suggestion from the Government that there is no money is an excuse poorly put. It is a question of priorities. The Government has set its priorities and this Bill represents the embodiment of those priorities. The Government is deferring  ad infinitum  this program that is - 
-The Government is deferring the program  ad infinitum  and spreading it out over a period which will be as long as it wishes. That provision has been written into the legislation. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has he authorised or directed that any member of Parliament be placed under police or other surveillance. 
Has authority been given for the tapping of the telephone of any member of Parliament. 
-Firstly, I think I should point out that it is a dangerous proposition to take in isolation figures for any section of government. One of the factors which has affected the American experience has been the collapse of the capacity of the city to carry its welfare programs, which was the historical means by which welfare was financed in that country. In Australia a not dissimilar situation has occurred in recent years with regard to State welfare programs being substantially taken over by Federal funding, in some instances- I would think significant instances- without a greater expenditure of actual funds on welfare services. Federal funding has increased. To use a parallel, if the Commonwealth Government took over the State railway systems the debt would not disappear, nor would the losses. But the States' budgetary situations would change considerably. So would those of the Commonwealth, in the reverse direction. With an expenditure of a similar amount of money one might well see a different budgetary result. 
To achieve any sort of pattern in this area one has to assess and take into account where the expenditures are, where they have been or whether they are pre-existing expenditures transferred from one system of government to another. The United States experience especially has been a collapse of the capacity of what one would have to call city-State type operations where their city controllers exercise very much the functions which our State governments exercised in the past. I think that there is a danger in present Government policies also of a similar situation occurring. To withdraw the Commonwealth from an area of expenditure is not necessarily to change the amount of expenditure within the nation. I would have thought that the total fiscal package within the nation is what is relevant rather than what the Commonwealth spends in isolation. 
We have heard over a considerable period a great deal about the size of the Commonwealth Public Service and the need to reduce the intake of public servants. But if the growth of the Public Service is a vital area surely the State public services and local government public services must be taken into consideration. If it is said that a 4.7 per cent or 4.8 per cent increase in the Commonwealth Public Service last year and a not dissimilar increase the year before are excessive I wonder what comments we should be hearing about a 6.7 per cent and a 10.5 per cent growth in the Victorian Public Service in the last 2 years. That is more than double the rate of growth of the Commonwealth Public Service. Local government has had a similar experience in the last few years. 
On that particular point I want to raise a matter, and I am glad to see the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  at the table. There does not appear to me to be any rationale in setting ceilings on Government activities where those activities are commercial activities, where the commercial activities are profitable, where the business community and the community at large have a demand for exclusive services that can be provided by that Government activity, and where setting ceilings reduces the capacity to service the needs of the community and to further the commercial interests of the activity concerned. I refer to the Australian Telecommunications Commission. One of the areas which concerns me is that there are increasing signs of delays in telephone installations because of what has been a very rapid demand for this facility. Any upturn in the business cycle will place very heavy demands on telephone requirements. I understand that at this time there has been something like an 85 per cent to 90 per cent reduction in the intake of technical trainees at the Rhodes college of Telecom in New South Wales and a downgrading of the technical training staff- the tutors- in that institution. I understand that similar reductions have been made in intakes of trainees in other States. 
The basic commodity required to keep up with the demand for the installation of technical services provided by Telecom is trained personnel. They are specialist trained personnel who cannot be recruited outside the service. If the intake of trainees is cut back from 200 to 25 in one year in order to meet a Treasury demand, which may be a political consideration, then there will be a cutback for a number of years in the capacity to supply that level of trained personnel which we hope increasing business activities will require. I would like to hear an explanation of why, in an area of business activity where the Government is making good profits, where it is neither a burden on the Treasury nor a burden on the community, the Government is slowing down the rate of training of personnel, is slowing down the rate at which vital communications can be provided to both private and public sectors, and is reducing the intake of funds which will assist in providing the capital necessary to increase the capacity to service the community's needs. 
In this area I think there is some sort of a blind spot in those who suggest that blanket cuts are the way in which to deal with this type of problem. If a commercial organisation, big or small, were subjected to the rigours of the control of the Treasury and the Public Service Board or if a group of commercial organisations had to go through the justification procedures and the red tape necessary to expend money in order to further a profitable enterprise, there would be no profitable enterprise. It is essential that judgments in these matters be taken on the basis of what is the real situation and what is the necessity for the service and the capacity of those carrying on the service to justify any increases in staff or expenditures which they undertake. 
That brings me to the second matter of concern. At this stage the Minister has made no statements that I know of on the matter but it is widely reported that a committee is inquiring into the 2 Commissions which were formed out of the Postmaster-General's Department, on the basis of examining any modifications or otherwise which may be justifiable. I do not believe that at this stage the Commissions have had a fair chance to operate. I hope that we are not about to go through the experience of Britain where the Post Office was placed under a board of control and immediately political interference at almost all levels destroyed the capacity of that board to carry out the functions with which it was charged by the Acts of Parliament establishing it. The Postal and Telecommunications Commissions in Australia are in their infancy. Whether they will succeed will not be evident for possibly five to ten years. Certainly political control of the Post Office will fail. Political control of the State rail systems has failed. It is not able to cope with the necessary business and other activities and also to meet the political requirements of the government of the day. It does not matter which party is in government. 
The Post Office is possibly the biggest industry in Australia. It is an industry which provides important communications. With the sort of development which is necessary and which will take place, I believe that it will, given some freedom of its own, develop services which will give Australia something approaching an adequate communications service. I doubt very much whether a country like Australia can ever have an adequate service or the types of services that people expect at the prices people expect to pay. I think that that is highly relevant. One can have a first class service in anything if one is prepared to pay first class prices, but one cannot have a first class service in anything if one is not prepared to pay a first class price. I am concerned- I do not want to make too much of this- at this point of time that the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions may well be going back into the dark ages when they were subjected to Public Service Board control. Something like 86 000 out of some 120 000 employees in the Post Office are in exclusive grades which do not have relevance to any other section of government employment. The Public Service Board, in these areas where it denies the Commissions the right virtually to negotiate their own conditions and wage rates, is the creator of industrial disputes which reduce the service and cost the Commissions revenue, usually without any saving whatsoever in the wage or other areas. I think the Minister may well acknowledge that recent experience has been that where there has been outside interference in negotiations with the Commissionsnot necessarily under the present Government- there has been serious loss of revenue to the Commissions without any saving in the long term in salaries or the provision of conditions. 
The Commissions are charged with responsibilities by this Parliament. I believe that they ought to be given time, without political interference, to carry out those responsibilities. Whilst that capacity exists we have a chance- I say a chance- of the Commissions developing the means by which the Commissions can properly operate and provide the services at the highest possible level for which the community is prepared to pay and reducing the fairly low incidence of industrial disputes within the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions. If on the other hand those Commissions are to be subjected by the Public Service Board, the Department of Employment and Industrial relations and by the Treasury to interference in their management without any real justification we can expect a deterioration in their services in the same manner as the deterioration took place in State rail systems when politicians tried to run them and took away any initiative at all from the persons charged under the State Acts with that responsibility. 
The British experience has been that the Postal Board in Great Britain was never given a chance to work because political interference arose almost immediately it was set up in the form of directives and other forms of restraint. I hope that the Australian Commissions will be given a chance. If any government goes back to the situation of political control it will be putting a noose around its own neck, not necessarily in that it will lose office but that it will be restrained in its activities by its need continually to pump resources into an area without getting any effective and efficient result. 
In the time I have left I want to take up something which is far more parochial. Like other honourable members on this side of the House I am concerned with reports that no funds will be provided for growth centres in the forthcoming Supply Bills. Most honourable members here will be aware that Geelong was a designated growth centre. They will also be aware that it has one of the highest incidences of unemployment in Australia. It has a regular high incidence of unemployment. The non-spending of funds on growth centres is suggested as a fund saving activity. It may well be so if one accepts the proposition that funds saved at a federal level, even though they are expended at a State and municipal level, are funds saved. I do not. 
In the total scene of the Australian economy it does not matter to the taxpayer whether he pays a local government body, a State government or the Commonwealth government; he still pays. In the provision of accommodation for people it is nearly twice as expensive to settle a family in Melbourne or Sydney now as it is to settle them in most of the non-metropolitan large regional cities. Investment in encouraging people to move to those areas is a saving in total expenditure in the short and long term. Under provisions which were made, a number of projects, some of which would have cost the Government very little, were allocated to the Geelong area. One of the projects was not to expand the accommodation for Commonwealth public servants within the inner metropolitan area of Melbourne but to provide accommodation on the periphery and also at Geelong. One thousand public servants were to be housed in accommodation which would have been built by private developers and leased to the Commonwealth. There would have been no expenditure on this by the Commonwealth for at least 2 years. 
There would have been some expenditure in the transfer of public servants in a couple of years time, but that expenditure as a total community commitment would have been reduced considerably if it were offset against the community costs of having public servants travel into the centre of city areas and the community cost of providing access to cities. This is becoming an increasing burden on each State government and one which has been to some extent recognised by the Commonwealth but not to anything like the extent which the cost incurred would warrant. Two other major projects were allocated to Geelong. One was the establishment of the Deakin University which, unless the funding for the construction of the necessary facilities is increased, will most likely be like the early parliaments in England and meet under the oak trees. 
-It might be but it would be awfully cold and I think the students might become a burden on Medibank which would mean there would be no saving. The other project, which I think is of a more urgent nature, is the establishment of the National Animal Health Laboratories. This is a major project to provide protection for Australian primary industry and to enable Australia to reach self-sufficiency in the provision of serums and in the investigation of animal diseases. At present we rely very heavily on good luck and supplies being available from other sources. This project will take a number of years to complete, but on completion will be a valuable insurance. The project is deferred for examination at the moment. I feel quite confident that the Government will eventually proceed with the project but I am certain that the loss through increased costs caused by the deferment is in excess of $lm a month. I am sure that that is about the order of the loss. 
The lack of this facility and the possible inability of the country to find the necessary serums or other treatments which may be necessary if an exotic disease were to break out in one of our animal industries in Australia could cost several thousand million dollars. It is not a good insurance risk to delay proceeding with this project. It will take 8 to 9 years to complete. I understand that it has been delayed now for something like that period. Australia is dependent very largely on its animal husbandry industries even though at the moment they are in a depressed state. We ought to be providing the protection that quarantine alone cannot provide. I hope that a decision can be made on this important matter very quickly. It is one where I believe that savings are not being made but costs accrued. 
-For the convenience of honourable members and because we are all subject to rumours at this stage of a session, I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  whether he is in a position to indicate whether the circulated program for the sittings of the House is likely to be adhered to. Also I understand that a motion was to be moved, although it does not appear on the notice paper, to extend the trial period of 5- minute speaking times in adjournment debates. Can the Minister inform the House briefly whether he has any information on this matter? 
I wish to speak in support of the motion. The motion, as amended, has one minor difference from the original motion. We members of the Opposition are not completely happy about that difference, which is that the motion now says not ' forthwith ' but 'as soon as practicable'. Disaster insurance is something with which this Parliament and not only the present Government but also past governments she id have dealt a long time ago. 
Motion (by  Mr Howard)  put: 
That the honourable member for Corio be not further heard. 
-Firstly, the motion to extend General Business - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-This is typical of the double standards - 
That is the motion to which I am speaking. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the removal of the non-reversion clause in the passenger vehicle manufacturers plan remove protection from major component manufacturers such as Borg- Warner in Albury-Wodonga. 
Will manufacturers be permitted to import panels which are at present manufactured in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
Will companies marketing a range of passenger vehicles be allowed to enter selected models under the 85 per cent plan to the disadvantage of existing manufacturers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
Over what period will new entrants into the vehicles manufacturers plan be allowed to reach the 85 per cent local content average. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
I ) Will manufacturers entered under the New Passenger Car Plan be permitted to import completely-built-up and completely-knocked-down vehicles outside the plan's operation. 
Will these imports be included in the allowed 15 per cent imported content, or treated as separate operations outside the plan. 
Will cars imported from parent companies who are in the 85 per cent plan by other than the Australian entrant in the plan, i.e. large retailers or subsidiary or dummy companies, be outside the operation of the plan. 
-I ask the Prime Minister. What sections of those cuts proposed by the Government will in fact be transfers of functions back to the States? Will they be accompanied by substantial increases in allocations to the States, or will the amount of money the States will require to fund those functions have to come from separate State taxation? 
-The Opposition again opposes this proposition but we do not intend to divide on the motion because that would be pointless. We agree that this procedure has not been properly tried at this stage but when it comes up for consideration we would like to see some safeguards built into the proposition that Ministers have an additional 10 minutes in which to speak. I think Ministers should be restricted to answering matters which fall within their ministerial responsibilities. This is the main reason for the Opposition opposing this particular proposal. We do not like sitting duck propositions where 2 Ministers can get up one after the other and take advantage of an opportunity to make political speeches. That is something which I think will eventually be discussed by the Standing Orders Committee. The Opposition opposes this proposal but we do not intend to divide at this stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I think it ill becomes the Leader of the House to indicate that the Opposition is not co-operating in the Government 's program. It has been noticeable that in almost all debates the Government is listing possibly 2 speakers to each one for the Opposition. Some debates have obviously been very protracted. We do not object to that. We think that debates should be, but if the Government's program is tight then it is up to the Government to make sure that its own members meet the Government's commitments. The Government should not ask the Opposition to drop out while the Government continues to list more and more speakers. 
-I seek the indulgence of the House to raise a matter. Throughout the debates which have taken place today there have been continual interruptions from the paging system which according to the contracts let is not supposed to work in this chamber. Will you,  Mr 
Deputy Speaker, ask that this be investigated? I think it is quite wrong that members in this chamber should have paging devices beeping all the time. 
It is not the Opposition's intention to oppose this motion. The additional sittings unfortunately are made necessary by what appears to be a regular practice or lack of practice of the House in ordering its business. I think it is fair to say that for the first four to five weeks of the sittings of the House virtually no business came forward. Now at the end of the session, as appears to be the normal practice, we will have a rush of major business. Some of the business is extremely important. We will be asked to pass it without, in many cases, the levels of debate which are desirable. 
-That may well be so. That does not necessarily mean that what was done in the past was correct. We are under extreme legislative pressure at the moment and will be in the next one or two weeks because of economic decisions which have been made somewhat in haste which will be required to be passed by this House before the winter recess. These are obviously measures introduced in panic. They are measures which the Government hopes will satisfy the magic wand formula that it undertook to introduce when it sought election. The Opposition hopes that they work but has grave doubts. The Opposition does not oppose the motion before the House but points out that at some time somewhere it should be possible for governments to order their programs so that the business comes forward during the whole of the sitting rather than during the last two or three weeks, as appears to be the practice which no one has proved can be avoided. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-We have just heard a remarkable speech from the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  I take it that he was telling the House that a petition was presented to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  because the manner in which it was prepared prevented it from being presented to either House of the Parliament. It did not take quite 5 minutes to do that. I want to raise a matter that I think is of serious concern and should be of concern to all honourable members in this House. There are conditions in the operations of the Australian Industries Assistance Commission which seriously disadvantage Australian firms and can disadvantage Australian workers. I refer to the means by which an application can be made to the Temporary Assistance Authority. In at least one industry a substantial proportion of the major manufacturers in Australia- I refer to the carpet industry- are also the major importers. Because of this and because the profit area for them is in importing, they are not prepared to apply for protection. This leaves the remainder of the industry incapable of having a submission made to the Temporary Assistance Authority. That is because a substantial proportion of the industry is not prepared to make the application. 
The importers are then in a position to prevent an application from being made to protect Australian industry and Australian workers against imports brought in by other manufacturers and thus displacing workers from jobs. I do not know the merits of the case but I know that if there is a case, and if there is a means by which the persons opposing it can prevent an application from being made to the Temporary Assistance Authority, the matter should be investigated. I would go one step further and say that there are instances where a single company dominates the market in Australia and is in a position - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
I ) As the Government is still considering AlburyWodonga and Geelong as growth centres, and as the new motor vehicle policy will have an effect on both these areas, has the Minister's Department, or any other department, made any estimate of employment opportunities in these areas as a' result of the new policies. ( 2 1 If so will the Minister arrange to table the estimates. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What additional equipment did the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister's wife order to be fitted to the motor vehicles provided for the use of the Prime Minister and his wife in each capital city? 
Is he able to provide similar information in respect of each member of the Ministry? 
-This group of Bills, or the economic package, whatever we like to deal with, makes a number of changes, some on ideological grounds, some on social grounds, and some, I think, in hope. I think the first thing we ought to acknowledge is that most of the Government's economic activity to date has been based on an ideological rather than economic base. Last year the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  indicated that he was opposed to the policy of successive governments of providing some degree of equality of opportunity in our society. That has been carried through. This particular package is brought in at this time in order to try to overcome what has become a fairly substantial lagging of confidence in the Government's policy to bring about the economic recovery it promised. Some of the statements of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  are almost mythical. They certainly have little substance in fact. In other areas the ideological content is far greater than it ought to be within the national Parliament. 
The area hardest hit because of ideological differences is the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Its actual expenditure of $ 124.2m for this year has been cut to $ 1 1 9m for next year. It is not a $Sm cut because it is a cut on actual expenditure on a forward estimate which is lower than the actual expenditure and takes no account of the increased operating costs which would be anticipated if there were no alterations at all in the levels of activity. A bland statement that this can be taken up by changes in administrative operation is, I think, just that. In fact I think that if the Treasurer believes that statement he believes in fairy stories. Quite clearly it is aimed at removing the independence of the ABC to plan its programs. 
There has been disaffection among conservative parties in Australia with some of the developments which the ABC has made in recent years. Some have been merely movements towards consumer demand in radio. One of the areas specifically singled out for an attack is the link between the new Sydney and Melbourne ABC stations. Access programs tend to be used and tend to express points of view which the conservative parties would not readily accept. I believe that the cuts in the ABC's allocation are designed to alter the program content, to whip the ABC into line, and to bring about a situation where contentious material is not utilised. I think that is a bad thing because I think that basically the thing that is needed more than anything else in this country is broader expressions of opinion on a range of subjects. With the exception of a few of the more senior members, we have heard government spokesmen, one after another, rising and supporting the package out of hand. No group of people could be in such agreement. There are areas with which most will agree, areas about which some will have doubt and areas where there will be violent disagreement. 
One of the things which should and must be said is that within this package is a sleight of hand operation. The first sleight of hand is in the estimates for the Department of Post and Telecommunications. It is said that an approximate cut of $250m has been made in that area. I suggest that that is cooking the books in a way that no private company would be allowed to do. What is being done is that Government borrowing, official, is being replaced by Government borrowing, unofficial. Because the borrowing is unofficial it is not shown in the Treasury's Budget estimations. Therefore, it is said to be not part of government expenditure and not part of the Budget. If the borrowings of the Government as such are deficit then the borrowings of Telecom are just as much deficit because they are government borrowings, government sponsored and are utilised for exactly the same purpose. 
There is a practice of charging forward investments to the year of cost. This is not a practice which is normal in any form of private or company budgeting. It is one which tends to inflate current expenditure. The average family with whom we equate, I think quite wrongly, budgetary policy, does not pay for its house in the year of purchase. It does not debit income for that year with the total cost of the house. Until interest rates became prohibitive, most of the major items in a household were similarly purchased on long term commitments whereby debits were made against the household income as the payments were made to meet the initial capital cost. Now we have a situation with regard to Telecom where this statement suggests that $200m will be saved to government revenue by Telecom's going on the market, setting up its own fund raising organisation, having its own procedures for paying out interest, and establishing its own borrowing authority. I am not sure that is not a good thing. It will create a degree of independence from the normal Public Service regulations and the dead hand of the Treasury in a business operation. I think it is advisable. The Government Aircraft Factory is a real sufferer in this area. To some extent Telecom will be removed from that area and better utilisation of its facilities will be allowed. In the initial stages, it may well prove to be a difficult operation. But it certainly does not deduct from the levels of government spending. It certainly does not deduct from the deficit. The $200m will be spent. It is just being transferred from one pocket to another. 
There have been changes in a number of other areas that I think ought to be drawn to the attention of the House and the Australian community. I do not think anyone disputes the value of the changes in the child endowment and dependants' allowances area. I certainly do not. The changes that have been made in the means of distributing funds in this area are to the advantage of the large families on low incomes. This is something that was suggested in at least the last 2 years by persons advising the former Government and that was not taken up. I think that is not to its credit. But the fact of the matter is that these are welcome changes. 
The changes in relation to Medibank are not a welcome move. The suggestion that has been made that the cost of Medibank was being borne out of taxation and that by some means this fiscal package alters that burden is, I submit, another sleight of hand trick. The taxation scales have been fixed to cover the cost of Medibank. The only reason why levies were not previously applied to Medibank in the initial stage is because the present Government refused to allow the legislation to be passed in the Senate. It did that as a deliberate act of policy that inflated the budgetary deficit, which it then condemned. It was an act of economic banditry of the worst type. In reimposing the levy after the tax scales have been adjusted to meet the lost revenue which was involved in the original nonapplication of the levy, the Government has now come forward and promoted what it voted against in this House and what thus created a great deal of the budgetary deficit problems. The Government now promotes the levy as a virtue. 
I would suggest that this type of presentation of an economic policy brings the whole economic strategy of the Government into disrepute. I would suggest that the failure to inform the House at the time on Thursday night when the Medibank levy and other measures were announced of the letter by the Prime Minister to the State Premiers seeking increases- a doubling- in certain hospital charges was a misleading of the House. It is part of the economic package. I would suggest that by not taking into account the removal from tax deductibility of the major portion of the home mortagage interest deduction scheme, which also occurred on 
Thursday, the Government has presented a false picture of the real income tax take by the Government. 
A number of other important considerations should be taken into account by the House. The first obviouly is: Will the economic package work? It is obviously designed to inspire confidence so that people will spend money, but, as was said earlier, people will not be encouraged to spend money unless they have confidence in their future, and by that I mean that they have some confidence that they will have a future income. An honourable member who spoke earlier in the debate made great play of the point that large amounts of money will be saved in payments on unemployment benefits. I would suggest that the only moneys that will be saved are those that will be saved as a result of the changes in the work test that were announced some time ago and that were designed to remove from the unemployment benefit list about 1 in 3 of the recipients. I doubt very much whether those work test alterations have had the effect for which they were designed. But this economic package is, in the initial stages at least, going to increase unemployment and not reduce it. 
The money that is to be paid in child endowment to a substantial number of families but not all families will be more than offset by the losses of expendable income in areas in which people have greater reserves and are more likely to spend that income. It also should be pointed out that 58 per cent of the child endowment payments are currently paid directly into bank accounts. I see no real reason why that procedure will not continue. Many people banked the tax concessions that have now been taken away by not claiming them at the time but leaving them with the Taxation Office to draw at the time that they submitted their taxation returns, which happened to be a very convenient time for most families. Subject to the grace of the Commissioner of Taxation, the taxation refund usually arrived in October, November or, at the latest, early December- immediately prior to Christmas and just prior to the period of greatest expenditure for most families. The payment of water and municipal rates and the re-equipment of children going back to school, plus the cost of the Christmas lay-off, all happened to fall within that period. 
The money is now going to be paid into the wife's account. Anyone who thinks that that will make a great deal of difference to family expenditure does not know how much control most wives have over their husband's pay packet. It will in fact mean that the husband will not have to carry such a load home to hand over to his wife. That is the major difference. But I suggest that the child endowment payments in those areas in which the family can possibly afford it- if the family could not it would be spending its total income anyhow- will remain in the bank to meet especially those commitments to rates and the commitments of that nature that will of necessity increase because the Government has not in this package indicated a sufficient level of support to local government to prevent very substantial increases in costs in that area being passed on to the public this year in the form of municipal rate increases. I think that about 1.5 per cent of the revenue has been estimated as the amount that is to be paid to local government. I suggest that local government needs at least 2 per cent in order to offset the increased costs that it cannot meet from its own resources without making unreasonable increases in rates. Rates are a bad form of tax from society's point of view. They have a totally regressive application to people on low incomes in that the rates are relatively higher for them in real terms than they are for persons on higher incomes. 
I would suggest that the economic package is to a degree a sleight of hand. The Government has made great play of the goodies. For the sake of the nation, I hope that the package works, but I do not believe that it will. I see nothing in the investment allowance, which is an earlier measure, the supposed cuts in government expenditure and the actual cuts in government activities, which are going to cause serious problems in the construction industry and other industries. If, for instance, Telecom cancels its orders with a private company in order to save money this year- I know of such an instance recently- that company is not going to expand its work force; in fact, it is going to be lucky if it is there next year when Telecom, on which the company has been dependent for a number of years for regular orders for essential materials, starts to pick up its stocks. The facts as I see them are that a lot of the Government cuts are in fact cuts in activity in the private sector which does the work for the Government. A great deal of government expenditure is purely the provision of money for works done by governments. 
I understand that in the pipeline are substantial increases in the cost of nursing home beds in private nursing homes in Victoria- about a $33 rise, I am told, on top of a serious deficit between the actual support and the cost at the moment. There are very serious problems in other areas of care that will have to be met. I understand that studies are being made to see how the Government can reduce- not extend but reduce- its expenditure on nursing care for the aged. No one can meet the costs involved in these areas, and none of the States is in a position to provide the. facilities. 
The other important matter which must be delved into is the effect of this economic package on the States. There is a lot of talk about federalism, but what the talk is concerned with is the Commonwealth removing itself from substantial areas of responsibility into which it has moved over, say, the last ten or fifteen years through a gradually widening acceptance of national responsibility in certain areas. A number of these areas cannot be discounted entirely; they are areas in which the community will require the continuation of Commonwealth participation. I refer not necessarily to new programs of the last 3 years but to community facilities which must be provided. One which I shall mention is the area of sewerage, into which the Commonwealth recently moved and from which apparently it will shortly move. The urban affairs area is almost just a replacement of State expenditure with Commonwealth expenditure, but it is necessary expenditure. It would appear that the States will be required by some magical formula to raise additional funds- at the moment it is not a State tax but during the New South Wales election campaign the Government parties clearly indicated that it would not be an additional tax- in order to meet the requirements which the community has and which the Commonwealth previously met in areas out of which it has now moved. If that is what we mean by federalism, we ought to examine whether or not it is worth the price. If revenue from Commonwealth sources which is raised more equitably than revenue from other income sources, either State or municipal, is replaced by those forms of revenue then the cost to the community in the long term increases rather than decreases, and the competence of the community must decrease rather than become the abundant flow which is hoped for and which will send out people to spend their money in glee. I believe that people will be keeping their money in the bank until they know where they are going. This economic package confuses rather than clears the air. 

 -Mr Speaker, at this stage I think it is important that the matter raised by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  be answered. I believe that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  does not have an answer at this stage. I would hope that the third reading could be delayed until tomorrow. 
-I ask the Attorney-General whether it is the intention to apply to laws relating to non-Aboriginal landholders in the Northern Territory similar national interest provisions as have been announced are to be contained in the Aboriginal land rights legislation whereby the ownership of land and its usage can be over ridden in the national interest? This is not a new provision. I believe that it is also contained in previous legislation. I ask the Attorney-General whether similar national interest provisions, where negotiations for use of land disagreed to by the landholder are intended to be applied to non-Aboriginal landholders in the Northern Territory. 
-The Opposition is opposing this Bill and the Income Tax (International Agreements) Amendment Bill (No. 2), but we do not intend to take the time of the House by dividing. We want it clearly recorded and acknowledged that we are opposing these 2 Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I ask the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  whether he has considered the position of people with preexisting illnesses who have opted out of Medibank and joined private funds. 
-Chronic illnesses or otherwise. Under the rules of the funds as they exist those illnesses are not covered. 
1 indicate that the Opposition is opposing the Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill 1976, but we do not intend to divide the House on it. We simply want our opposition recorded. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-In the absence of the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  I indicate that the Opposition does not oppose the Remuneration and Allowances Amendment Bill 1976. The Bill merely puts into legislative effect the decisions of the Remuneration Tribunal in respect of judges of the Family Court who at this stage are being paid at a lower rate than they should be. The date on which payments will commence is specified in the Bill. There appears to be no reason to delay the Bill. In fact, I think the Opposition would not be adverse if the proposal had a wider spread. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-This Bill contains the reverse provision to that which was contained in the motion establishing the Expenditure Committee in that it allows the  Chairman  of the Expenditure Committee to sit on the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. The only remark I make is that I am concerned at a time when a report from the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System has been introduced and recommends major changes to the Public Accounts Committee- in fact, it recommends an alteration to that Committee to cover procedures which are at present being covered by other expenditure committees- we are having enshrined in legislation a provision that the  chairman  of one committee can sit on another. The Bill does alter the numbers on the 2 committees. I do not think that it is a terribly great thing, but I think it is regrettable that the Expenditure Committee was established without reference to the report of the Joint Committee. Those who have read the report of the Joint Committee will see that it was not terribly happy with an expenditure committee. 
The Bill is a technical one which the Opposition is not opposing. We were opposed to i Insetting up of the Expenditure Committee, on the ground that it was pre-empting the report of the Joint Committee. I think we were proved to Incorrect in that stand. This Bill is purely a machinery measure. I think it would have been better if the Parliament had waited for its Committee u&gt; report, which was only a matter of a couple of weeks. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to claims that current industrial problems in the post office in Western Australia in relation to the employment of non-union labour are being promoted by the Western Australian Government and political organisations associated with that Government in order to establish a justification for political interference in the operations of the Postal Commission. 
2 ) If so, will he investigate the claims. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the statement appearing on page 70 of the 1975 Annual Report of the Australian Post Office that the number of deferred applications for telephone services where the service cannot he offered pending major extensions of plant stood at 16 472. 
What is the estimated number of deferred applications as at the end of the year 1975-76 bearing in mind the fact that the capital works program of Telecom Australia has been cut by $1 lm for the year 1975-76 and total operative staff are to be reduced by 1250 during the same period. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What procedures exist for groups or firms to seek temporary protection when they are affected by imports, or decisions of the Industries Assistance Commission. 
Can the refusal or failure to seek protection for local industry by firms engaged in both the manufacture and import of goods prevent any application being made on behalf of the industry or those dependant on such industry. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) In framing the new motor vehicle manufacturing policy, has the Government, or any Government Department, taken into account the effect on employment in those areas which are presently manufacturing motor vehicles. 
If so, are estimates of employment levels in the motor vehicle industries in each area or city available; if so, will the Minister table these estimates. 
-I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Is it anticipated that the Postal Commission will end the year with a surplus of between $ 10m and $14m arising from the increase in postal charges last year? Was that in line with the estimates of the Postal Commission given in assessing the increase in postal charges last year, but overridden by the Treasury? Is it intended that these surplus funds will be used for a reduction in postal charges in the coming year, or will they be used to offset subsidies which are at present financed by the Treasury for services in areas which the Postal Commission has indicated are uneconomic? 
I shall take only a couple of moments. I think 2 things are important. Firstly, the fact that the Minister is accepting and receiving representations on the non-reversion clause would indicate that the decision to abolish it was taken without proper consideration in the first place. I think this was done on the advice of the Public Service which was very anxious to get rid of the clause because it felt that it was a political rather than a Public Service responsibility to administer. 
On Monday certain discussions took place in Canberra between representatives of local government bodies in the Geelong area, representatives of parties in the Victorian Parliament, including the State Minister responsible for this area and  Senator Cotton.  These discussions related to the specific problems of tooling and design in the manufacture of motor vehicles in Australia. It is not an occasion for taking action at his leisure because my understanding is that the decision on the design of 1979 models will be taken within the next 8 to 10 weeks, and once taken that decision will be final and the non-reversion clause in that area will not operate. As honourable members will have gathered, I am being facetious when I say this. More importantly, if an unfavourable decision is taken, about 3000 people will lose jobs in the Geelong area over a 3-year period. Such a decision will also most likely mean that a similar trend will be adopted by other companies. I know of one company that has already made an announcement in this regard, but that does not make it final. As I have said, if an unfavourable decision is taken there will be serious inroads into employment in this area. 
The third and most likely the most important long-term effect will be that the design capacity of another industry will disappear. There has been an erosion of design and tooling capacity in Australia which will be of very serious consequence to any long-term development of industrial strength in Australia. I would suggest that there can be no industrial strength in a nation which does not have its own design capacity. This capacity has already gone substantially from the electronics industry. If decisions are taken not to proceed with any Australian design in the motor vehicle industry this capacity will then disappear from that area. I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard ) whether discussions have taken place or are scheduled to take place on the representations made to Senator Cotton on this matter and when he will be in a position to give any indication of the result of those discussions. 
-The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  has just delivered a diatribe which I think he will regret when he reads his speech in  Hansard  tomorrow morning. I suggest that if the honourable member wants to attribute remarks to another honourable member of the Parliament he might quote some of those comments to which he is referring. The homes savings grant is a poor manner in which to promote home ownership. 
It is terrific for someone who wants political kudos and wants to fool the people without spending money. That is what the Government wants- political kudos without cost. To finance the reintroduction of the homes savings grant the Government will remove from the majority of Australians the ability to claim as a tax deduction their mortgage payments, which was a far more significant benefit. The honourable member spoke about 400 000 Australians benefiting from the proposal. One million Australians benefited in one year from the tax deductibility scheme which has just been removed as a benefit for people who are struggling to buy their own homes. The Government is suggesting that a $2,000 grant which will be made available after 3 years will be of greater benefit than the tax deductibility scheme which it has abolished. 
-Either the honourable member is a fool or he wishes to mislead. 
-The Opposition is not opposing the motion.  Mr Speaker,  I ask you to instruct the officer of the House who is required to present the documents that no questions other man the question relating to whether they are the documents will be able to be put to or answered by that officer. I ask you to make that clear from the chair. I am aware of the legal position. That should be by direction of the House. That is all I want to raise. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
By what amounts have the appropriations of each Commonwealth department, authority and corporation been reduced since 1 1 November 1975. 
What amounts additional to those contained in the 1975-76 Budget have been authorised for each Commonwealth department, authority and corporation since 1 1 November 1975. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
What procedures exist to prevent the re-exporting of goods made in advanced countries through underdeveloped countries under tariff arrangements for underdeveloped countries. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the capital works program for Telecom Australia for the year 1975-76 expected to be 1 per cent higher in constant price terms than that for the year 1974-75 which is considerably lower than the long term average of 5.5. per cent. 
Does Telecom Australia explain the low projection by saying that better utilization of existing telephone exchange equipment will take place. 
Will the 1 per cent growth rate be turned into a negative real growth rate due to the substantially reduced school leaver recruitment into apprenticeships at the beginning of 1976 while the absolute operative staff level as at 30 June 1976 is to be reduced by 1250 compared with the figure as at 1 July 1975. 
Will the problem of obtaining the desired growth be further compounded by the $1 1 million cut-back in Government advances for capital works. 
Is the reduction in the number of apprenticeships in the telecommunications industry granted to school leavers consistent with the Government s stated objective during the last election campaign of providing increased employment opportunities for school leavers. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Does the  Telecommunications Act  1975 provide that the Australian Telecommunications Commission shall perform its functions in such a manner as will best meet the social, industrial and commercial needs of the Australian people for telecommunications services. 
Can the Commission achieve this objective despite the cut-back in its financial allocation of $1 lm and the target of a staff reduction of 1250 persons imposed upon it for the year 1975-76. 
Is it expected that the Commission will be able to achieve the necessary growth in output of 7 per cent needed to meet the community demand despite the reductions imposed upon it for the year 1 975-76. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the publication Service  and Business Outlook of Telecom Australia  for the year 1975- 76 which was published in August 1975 and which predicted a growth of 4 per cent in telephone services, S per cent in local calls and 10.5 per cent in trunk line calls. 
If so, are these growth rates still obtainable having regard to the overall decline of 1250 in staff numbers of Telecom Australia and a budgetary cut-back of $1 lm in the year 1975-76. 
Having regard to these difficulties, will Telecom Australia be able to meet the needs of the business community and the private subscribers for the remainder of the year 1975-76 and for the year 1976-77. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Are Government services which are provided on an agency basis through the Postal Commission paid for at a rate which enables the Commission to recoup the full cost of providing such services, including maintenance and depreciation on post office buildings. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Are there any restrictions on sales tax free purchases of motor vehicles by State Governments. 
Can high cost imported vehicles be purchased tax free by a State Government and resold with low usage at a considerable profit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Other than the Government Aircraft Factory and the Department of Defence who is authorised to use the facilities of the Avalon airfield. 
Under what circumstances are private aircraft entitled to use the airfield facilities. 
Who is entitled to authorise use of the facilities by persons or authorities other than the Government Aircraft Factory, the Department of Defence and commercial airlines. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What restrictions apply to the purchase of motor vehicles by local and semi-Government bodies. 
Do any minimum usage requirements apply u&gt; these purchases. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is the estimated loss to revenue as a result of the rejection by the Senate of the Bill to impose a Medibank levy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What motor vehicles were purchased for use in the Commonwealth ear pool in each of the last  1(1  years. 
What was the purchase price for each type of vehicle purchased. 
At what average period of time and mileage were these vehicles disposed of. 
What was the sale price of undamaged vehicles sold in each of these years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister provide details of the accounting process used in determining that the full cost of the Prime 
Minister's 4 day visit to Malaysia and Singapore accompanied by 3 other persons was $895 and that the 6 day visit to Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia by the Minister for Foreign Affairs cost $62. 
Do all amounts shown against Ministers' travel expenses include travel and accommodation charges or estimates of these where no actual charges are made. 
Do figures based on different criteria constitute a re reasonable basis for comparison. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the delay in the installation  or  telephones in the Geelong area increased because of the implementation of staff ceilings. 
What is the present average delay in the connection of telephone services to new applicants. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
Has he initiated any detailed study on the long term level of unemployment in the Geelong employment district. 
-Briefly, I should like to associate myself and the electorate I represent with the resolution moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Lord Casey entered this 
Parliament first as the member for Corio in 1 93 1 , having defeated Arthur Lewis whose death preceded that of Lord Casey by about 12 months. He served the electorate of Corio well and I know that he is well thought of by those who remember his period as member for that electorate. He resigned in 1940 to take a diplomatic post and was succeeded by John Dedman who also died about 12 months ago. He was the first representative of the electorate of Corio to hold ministerial rank in this Parliament. The 2 members who succeeded him also rose to similar rank.  His  career was one at which most people would look in wonderment. In different circumstances he almost certainly would have served as Prime Minister. That he left the Parliament when he did most likely changed the course of Australia's political history. I think it is fair to say that had he stayed he almost certainly would have been Prime Minister and in all probability the change of government in 1941 would not have taken place. 
I associate myself with this motion. I think that in any era there are men who serve their nation in a manner which is unique and Lord Casey was one of those men. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
What is the estimated increase in construction costs of the national animal health laboratory for each month's delay caused by deferment of commencement of the project. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to demands by the Queensland Government to have wages, earned by 200 Aborigines working as extras on a film being made in Queensland, paid to the Government of that State and not to those who have earned the money. 
) Can he say whether Actors ' Equity is insisting that the individuals are paid their own wages. 
Will he examine what action can be taken to ensure that wages earned are paid to those who have earned them. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a statement been made to the effect that no action will be taken against individuals who do not complete census forms. 
If so, will this affect the accuracy of the census statistics. 
) Will similar provisions apply to the case of surveys carried out by the Australian Statistician. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the estimated value of imports of (a) motor vehicles, (b) carpets and (c) textiles in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Which schools in each State had cadet units prior to the introduction of the 1975-76 Budget. 
What was the number of cadets in each case. 
Which schools would have met the criteria of the new policy announced by the Government 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
On how many occasions has the Government coordination committee on employment and industrial relations intervened in negotiations on employment conditions between unions and Telecom Australia, the Overseas 
Telecommunications Commission and the Postal Commission. 
On how many occasions were the original agreements between the Commissions and the unions altered and in what manner. 
Which of these agreements flowed on to other Government areas. 
What industrial action resulted from the interventions. 
What was the estimated financial cost to each Commission as a result of such industrial disputes. 
Were the Commissions re-imbursed the losses caused by industrial disputes, created by Government interference in relations between the Commissions and their employees. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he sought reasons for the fall in the number of applications for new telephone connections to which he referred in his letter to me relating to staff reductions in Telecom Australia. 
When does he anticipate that the excessive delay in connections will be reduced substantially. 
Is it good business practice to reduce staff before reducing the period of delay in making new telephone connections. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the ABC recently destroyed news films from its Library. 
If so, what was the subject of each film destroyed and were films of the Petrov Royal Commission among those disposed of. 
Are duplicate copies of these films held in the ABC Library. 
Who requested the destruction of these films. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How many applications for new telephone services were received in each telephone district in each of the last 1 2 months. 
How many connections were made in each district in each of the last 12 months. 
What was the number of outstanding applications in each district in each of the last 1 2 months. 
What is the average delay in the provision of services to new applicants in each district 
-I should like to add some remarks to those already made. I had the opportunity of working with  Mr Bridgman  in a manner which is different from the experience of most members. I think I can say that he always presented himself and sought to do what was necessary in a manner which was so courteous and so responsive that it was almost an embarrassment to the person to whom he reported. He displayed enthusiasm for his job and did it with competence. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said quite a deal. He indicated that  Mr Bridgman  should write his memoirs so that they could compare notes. There are 2 books- one allegedly and one certainlyabout a former Victorian,  Mr John  Wren, which are now being serialised. Those 2 books would most likely have as much in common as the 2 tomes referred to by the honourable member for Hindmarsh should they be written. Bill Bridgman has given service to this Parliament and far greater service to members than many of them really realise. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this proposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this provision. However, I draw attention again to the fact that the Opposition would like written into the proposal a limit on the Minister's right of reply restricting him to matters raised during the adjournment debate, which fall within his ministerial responsibility. The right of reply by a Minister has not been used greatly, but I feel that under pressure of debate on future occasions a Minister may choose to enter into a political debate rather than use the time for the purpose for which it is obviously allocated, that is, to answer as Minister, questions raised on matters within his ministerial competence. I have raised this question before. 
-I hope that could be narrowly interpreted. I think it would be broadly interpreted. Any special provision giving a Minister the right of reply should limit his reply to matters within his competence. It should not be a general provision enabling him to talk at a time when honourable members would not have the right to speak even if time permitted. 
-The Opposition is not opposing this Bill although I understand that some technical amendments will be moved in the Committee stage and we will be asking the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to explain them in more detail. The Bill covers 2 separate proposals; the first is to place total limitations on the advertising of cigarettes; the other is to permit the establishment of translator stations in areas where broadcasting and television stations would not normally be expected to operate economically. I think that both these matters had been set in train by the former Government. 
On the question of the banning of specific types of advertising, it is not unreasonable to say that even though both parties are agreed and have been agreed for some considerable time on this matter it constitutes a peculiar set of circumstances in that we are banning one specific type of advertising- I do not quarrel with that and neither does the Opposition- without even examining the effects of other similar forms of advertising which currently take place. Some rather insidious advertising takes place, especially on television, in regard to certain types of analgesics and some forms of alcoholic beverages, by which people are clearly given to believe that it is something less than normal not to utilise those substances as part of their daily lives. We have all probably seen one advertisement which goes along the lines of 'Let's go in and have a certain brand of powder and a cup of tea ', as if it is part of a way of life when in fact it is advertising a dangerous product. 
Some of the alcohol advertisements almost put forward the proposition that one cannot enjoy oneself and that people are less than normal if they do not partake of certain forms of beverage. There are other advertisements in the same areas which are quite acceptable. I only make the point that we should wonder at the fact that we are dealing with one specific type of advertising, to the total exclusion of other similar forms of advertising. I believe that a set of legislative standards should be set- especially for televisionfor advertising so that both the advertisers and the public know exactly where they stand. At the moment no such standards appear to exist although one can complain about the authenticity or honesty of an advertisement. Some advertisements are of a type that one would not expect to find in one 's lounge room. 
The other proposal in this legislation relates to translator stations and provides the means by which some of the facilities available in the more populated areas will be available to persons living in remote and semi-remote areas and thus will improve the standard of life of those people. The Opposition supports that proposal. I do not want to pre-empt the Minister but I understand that there are some drafting problems in the Bill which will be dealt with in Committee. The Opposition does not disagree with the concept of the changes which the Minister has put forward but it will obviously want to look at the amendments in their entirety. The Opposition will put forward any alterations which it thinks should be made to those amendments when the Bill is dealt with in another place and members have had proper time to examine those amendments. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill and hopes that its passage will have the sort of effect which the legislation is designed to have. But in the light of experience in other countries I have very grave doubts that the banning of cigarette advertising will cause great difficulties in view of the ingenuity of the advertising firms which handle those rather large accounts. I do not know whether it is possible under this Bill but in the United States of America other products were given similar names. Massive advertising campaigns then took place for products with names similar to cigarettes- in most cases tobacco- so the advertising continued and only a device was used to avoid actually naming cigarettes as the product being advertised. The other method used is quite obvious to anybody who watches television programs. Advertising signs are placed at rather prominent places at sporting arenas and at functions so that the advertising is conveyed in a passive rather than a direct manner. This is a means by which the bans will be overcome. 
As I have said, the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. I repeat that, for consistency if for nothing else, an examination ought to be made of some of the other forms of advertising which are potentially equally harmful. If we are to ban advertising on the basis that it is harmful or injurious to human health or constitutes a threat to society then we should be consistent about it, not select one product and go away wearing a halo, believing that we have done something greater than we have done, whilst ignoring other equally potent problems. 
-At this stage the Opposition is not opposing the passage of the amendments. The purpose for which the amendments have been moved is one which we find acceptable. If there is any possibility in the original Act that, by use of translator stations, country licence holders in television and radio could be forced out of the field by metropolitan operators, I think it is desirable that amendments be passed. The Opposition will be examining the technical effect of the amendments before the Bill is brought forward in another place, and any comments which we have on that will be made at that time. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Who is entitled to authorise police or security scrutiny of members of the parliaments of Australia and the States. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would enable the debate on the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill to be resumed immediately and to continue for a period of not less than one hour. 
I move this motion because I think that this morning the practice of the House was departed from. It is usual on General Business day for Government supporters not to raise matters of public importance. The time allotted for what is and was a major debate was taken up by a matter of public importance to the extent that a totally inadequate time was allowed for the debate on the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill. I believe that, in the interest of the operations of the Parliament on future occasions and also in the interest of a fair allocation of time to private members of the Opposition on what is the only occasion on which they can propose positive matters before this House, the time which was taken by Government supporters in pursuing a matter of public importance should be reallocated to the Opposition. A period of one hour for continued debate on that Bill would serve the purpose. I have included the time which was utilised in that period by the Opposition, so I am not seeking restoration of the time that was taken by the division or the argument prior to the Bill being brought on. 
Every motion of private members' business which was proposed in this House during the period of the Australian Labor Party Government was brought to a vote in this House. Where time was taken at the start of private members' business it was re-allocated by an extension of the period at the end of private members' business. I think that the matter which was before the House this morning is of great significance. I seek the restoration of the debate because I believe it is very important, especially at this time when the matter concerned could be very relevant as a result of other matters which came before the House this week, that that extension should be granted. 
The first  speaker  who would be involved in the debate would be the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  who was putting forward the Government's policy or lack of policy when time ran out. I for one believe that it is important to this House that that statement of policy should be completed and that there should be an opportunity for some response from the Opposition on that question. I think that the motion which I have moved will save the House from trauma and disruption in the future and will act to ensure that when private members' business is brought forward in the future it will at least be given a reasonable amount of time for discussion. The period which was left after the discussion of the matter of public importance was completed was something less than an hour, and the Opposition forwent its full debating time during the discussion of the matter of public importance in order to facilitate the bringing on of private members' business. I believe that the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders should be carried by the House- it rests with the Government as to whether it will be carried- and that the debate should be allowed to continue for the period which I have sought. 
-I want to deal only with one part of the Bill, namely, the proposal to extend the period of notice of intention to marry from one week to one month. We delude ourselves if we think that will make any significant difference in the degree of breakdown of marriage. Marriage breaks down for a variety of reasons. I do not think delaying the decision to marry by an additional 3 weeks will make a great deal of difference to that breakdown. I think it is more likely to reduce the incidence of marriage itself. I suggest to honourable members that they should think seriously about this type of change. Sometimes people find themselves in certain circumstances and wish to marry in a reasonably short time but do not wish to go through the trauma of the courts. They will now be faced with the position that what could have been not obvious becomes obvious. Other people when they decide to live together would prefer to marry. 
I do not think we should underestimate the degree to which the marriage vows have been debased in some parts of our society. I think the proposal to extend the period of notice of intention to marry is more in tune with the previous century. 
-I understand the remarks of the honourable gentleman from the National Country Party, but some honourable gentlemen from the Liberal Party would feel more comfortable in a previous century. After all, they are having great difficulties getting into this century and are being led backwards fast. This is a serious matter. A change is being proposed very much in line with slogans or hopes than with reality. Something is being changed for no real reason and it is more likely, I suggest, to cause harm than good. 
The honourable gentleman obviously thinks he knows everything, but I do not think he knows what he is talking about on this occasion. A month or a week is a very short time in which to decide what one will do in a lifetime. As the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  pointed out, if some honourable gentlemen were to take the trouble to talk to some of the deserted wives and supporting mothers who are being covered by our social welfare system, they would find that a lot of marriages break down through pressure of economic circumstances and through other pressures which have nothing to do with the period for which couples knew each other before they were married. Breakdown has no relationship at all to the knowledge of a partner that can be obtained in that period. It is almost ludicrous to suggest that a person who has been divorced previously should then have to wait an extra 3 weeks before he can remarry so that he can find out about the manner in which marriage operates. It may be that the Government would do better to bar these people from remarrying altogether. Certainly there is no substance in a suggestion that such a person would benefit by counselling or by delaying for a further period of three to four weeks a marriage into which he has decided to enter. 
The most unfortunate thing about this Bill is the decision to make it a party measure. For some years in this Parliament these sorts of measures have been non-party measures. I think it has been made a party measure for the basest of reasons, and that is in order to facilitate the passage of the Bill through this House. 
-As of when? 
-That is not correct, and I suggest that the honourable member knows that it is not correct. If he had listened to his  Deputy  Whip he would have heard him acknowledge in his speech S minutes ago that it was not a free vote. I find that disappointing. In looking for a reason I have to say that during previous debates when free votes were taken the track record of the Attorney-General was not terribly good in respect of voting on the side that won the division. I do not know whether he was right in his general attitude, but I do not believe that he is right in this matter. I believe that this is a matter on which the Parliament would do well to decide as a Parliament what it considers best, rather than for it to be decided on behalf of the people of Australia by a government. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government examined proposals outlined in the report  Telecom 2000  for the establishment of new data services? 
If so, will he examine the possibility of locating this facility in a non-metropolitan area? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Construction. Has the Minister's Department indicated that it intends to place orders for the supply of carpets for Australian Government purposes during the next 2 years with a non-Australian company? 
-It may be magic but it will not employ any Australians. Is the Minister aware of the very serious position of the Australian carpet industry? If orders are to be placed outside Australia for the supply of carpet, can the Minister inform the House as to the reasons why Australian firms were not capable of providing, or were not given the opportunity to provide, the carpet. 
-A number of matters have been raised in connection with the Ombudsman Bill but the only matter I wish to raise concerns the impartiality of the office. If an ombudsman is to give decisions which will be acceptable to people who raise complaints against the Public Service- against the bureaucracy- I think it is important that the ombudsman be seen not to be in any way associated with the persons who have the right of decision and the responsibility for the actions of the bureaucracy or for Cabinet decisions. For that purpose the Opposition will be moving an amendment which is in line with, although not exactly similar to, one which was moved by the then Opposition when the Bill was before the Parliament on a previous occasion. 
I think similar circumstances prevailed. I think these circumstances show fairly clearly the need for this type of amendment. Governments, irrespective of who form them, tend to be jealous of their authority and very vigorously oppose any inroads into their authority, whether they be apparent or non-apparent. I believe that the person who is appointed to the office of ombudsman should be a person who is readily acceptable to all sides of the Parliament. He must have the confidence of all sections of the community. If the confidence does not exist, then the person concerned does not have the authority needed to perform the duties of his office. Whether the amendment is in the form previously suggested, whereby the appointment is made and then approved by both Houses of the Parliament, or whether it is recommended by both Houses of the Parliament is immaterial. I believe that we ought to have sufficient confidence in our parliamentary system to be sure that we will appoint a suitable person to review complaints against the methods of operation of the various arms of government. I think the fact that governments are not prepared to accept this particular form of appointment is an argument that- that form of appointment is desirable. 
I do not intend to argue the matter at length. I hope that the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  now that he is in government and in a position to implement what he suggested should be done on a previous occasion, will see the wisdom of his earlier remarks. There is an inconsistency on both sides of the Parliament but that does not make the proposal right or wrong. What is important is that the ombudsman should be seen to be a person who is acceptable to all sections of the Parliament and to all sections of the community. By accepting an amendment which gave the Parliament either the right to recommend the appointment as we are proposing, or the right to disapprove of an appointment, which I think would rarely be exercised provided a blatant political appointment were not made, we would be strengthening the office of ombudsman and dissociating that person from direct association in any way, even by appointment, from the Government. I think it is important that that not only be done but be seen to be done. 
I want to raise only one question. When a Government member moves an amendment which quite obviously the Attorney-General has seen and agreed to, it makes it difficult for the Opposition when it has not had the opportunity to see that amendment. We do not intend to prevent the passage of the Bill at this stage, but I raise the matter because it could be that the amendment is quite controversial, and we have had no opportunity whatsoever to study its effect. 
-On behalf of the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  I wish to move an amendment to clause 2 1 which reads in part: 
1 ) An Ombudsman shall be appointed by the GovernorGeneral. 
An Ombudsman holds office on such terms and conditions (if any) in respect to matters not provided for in this Act as are prescribed. 
I move: 
Add at the end of sub-clause ( 1 ) the words, ', and shall be a person whose appointment has been recommended by resolutions of both Houses of the Parliament'. 
The Opposition would be quite happy to accept the other means of appointment which was outlined earlier by the Attorney-General, namely, that a recommendation may be approved by Parliament subsequently. I believe it is important for the sake of the appearance of the independence of the Ombudsman that Parliament be directly associated with both his appointment and his operations. The Bill requires that he shall report to Parliament. I hope the Attorney-General will consider this position and pay heed to his earlier remarks rather than the advice he received subsequently. I think it is important to the operation of the office that it appears to be totally divorced from the bureaucracy or the ministry. I do not exclude any particular ministry from that remark. I think the Ombudsman will indicate quite often that the problems brought to him by people are not within his jurisdiction or have been correctly processed. Unless there is an appearance of independence they will believe, I think unfortunately, that they have been subjected to bureaucratic pressure. I think that if the appointment were made by Parliament it would be a protection to the Ombudsman himself. 
It is unfortunate that honourable members opposite should so easily accept a Budget which will do so much damage to so many people. 
-I suggest that the honourable member, who is out of his seat, find a seat somewhere in the House. He will not have one long if he supports this type of Budget. I wish to draw attention to some of the remarks which have been made around the country - 
I notice how well the honourable member is doing with respect to the gold subsidy! Let me point to the remarks made around the country by various members of the Government Parties and the platitudes we hear from them designed to pacify the people. 
He tried that once. He did not make it. Honourable members opposite have talked about the need for an increase in the skilled work force. I agree. But their Ministers have stated that they will be withdrawing assistance to apprentices. Their Ministers are saying that the States should increase payroll tax by one-half of one per cent, which has the same effect as increasing wages by one per cent as far as costs are concerned, to pay for apprenticeship training. 
The Government has withdrawn support for the training of apprentices in general trades within its own instrumentalities. One Minister while overseas suggested that we would have to import tradesmen because we were not able to produce them in Australia. The facts are that the Government is not prepared to support the training of tradesmen and has curtailed substantially its own activities in this area at a time when juniors are readily available for such training. Recently in New South Wales applications were called by Telecom Australia for trainee technicians. For about 45 positions 2000 applications were received. The school which conducts the training is capable of taking in excess of 200; but the Government, of its own volition, decided this year on an 87 per cent cut in the intake of trainees. The Government also has cut back apprenticeship training within Telecom in Western Australia. So the blame for any crocodile tears about the lack of skilled tradesmen can be sheeted home directly to the present Government and its attitudes. This afternoon we heard from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street). His  title must be the greatest misnomer ever. It is a misnomer when a Minister whose major responsibility is to deprive people who are unable to find jobs of unemployment benefits calls himself a Minister for Employment. I suggest that this is something at which the House ought to look. If he called himself the Minister for Unemployment he might well be accurate. The only thing he is able to say is that if people were prepared to work for nothing there would be plenty of jobs. That is the end result of the Government's policies. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his Budget Speech that there had been no increase in indirect taxation. That was misleading the House. The charges which are to be levied under this year's Budget to cover the cost of Medibank are direct and indirect taxes and cannot' be classified otherwise. 
-I do not think so. The costs of Medibank to the consumer will add up in 3 different ways to approximately $ 1,000m, either in the form of revenue received by the Treasury or in the form of income forgone by the community. Firstly, about $350m will be collected directly in the form of the Medibank levy. An equal amount will be paid to hospital benefits associations- and compulsorily paid. It will not be a freedom of choice operation. The free enterprise government is compelling people to move into the private insurance area. 
-It is still in the private insurance area. The other Government action in this area concerns tax concessions which previously applied to payments to hospital benefits associations. They are no longer available. The documents attached to the Budget show that in the last year mentioned, 1973-74, those concessions involved $35 1m in revenue forgone by the Treasury. So, in total $ 1,000m additional income which was not previously available will be available to the Treasury as a result of a Budget which the Treasurer says does not include increases in indirect taxation. 
I want to deal specifically with some of the problem areas in which I believe the Government has deliberately failed to meet commitments it gave to the electorate. We have heard much talk about the size of the deficit. I notice that there is an argument about $ 1 ,000m, but the economists can argue that out. Possibly whoever wins will tell the Treasurer what the correct figure is. Certainly there is no magic amount of deficit which should or should not be achieved in one year. I suggest that at present the economy is more likely to require stimulus than a restriction in credit, which would appear to be the outcome of this Budget. The only areas in which the Government is seeking to provide direct stimulus are those which are most profitable and least likely to create employment opportunities. If the mining industry - 
No, it is not a big employer of labour, and it is not likely to be. Manufacturing industry is the only very substantial employer  of labour, besides the tertiary areas, which the Government has decided will be reduced or almost completely cut out. Increased income from the mining industry has the effect of reducing the opportunities of manufacturing industry within Australia because of the pressure it brings through the balance of payments situation for an increase in the amount of imports allowed into Australia. I will refer to one particular industry. In the last 3 years in the motor car industry the balance of payments difference has gone from a deficit of $92m to a deficit of close to $500m as a result of the changed pattern of vehicles available on the Australian market- Australianmanufactured vehicles compared with imported vehicles. 
I am seriously concerned at the Government's cutbacks in programs which were designed to give some relief to those areas of Australia where normal employment balance is not able to be achieved. I talk of the provincial areas and country areas. In provincial areas it is not unusual for one or two industries, usually in the manual areas, to dominate the employment scene. There is almost always a deficit in employment for people in the clerical and administrative areas, especially for juniors. With the advent of increased education, job expectations in that area have grown but the job opportunities are available only in the capital cities, with the result that there is a buildup of pressure on young people to leave the provincial and country centres, to move into the cities, to leave their families and thus to be lost forever to those areas. This creates pressures on the communities in the capital cities which they are not capable of meeting. The urban sprawl of Melbourne and Sydney especially is evidence of that incapacity. 
Programs, which were initiated by the previous Government and which have virtually been discontinued by this Government, to provide the amenities of life to people who have been forced into the capital cities and who are rearing families in those cities were stop gap measures which at best were unsatisfactory. The programs which existed and which were developing to provide employment opportunities in the areas where these young people were born and educated are a better and, in the long term, more useful purpose for expenditure of funds by government. In the Geelong area- the proposal to make it a growth centre has now been discontinued- a number of direct decisions were made to place in that vicinity government instrumentalities which would have provided employment opportunities and which would have developed other employment opportunities as a result of their placement in that area. 
I mention the National Animal Health Laboratories, which have again been deferred. I am surprised that National Country Party members have not raised this matter in the House. The deferral means that primary industries, especially the beef industry, are placed at risk from exotic diseases. Our quarantine laws, especially in Western Australia, should be looked at seriously. The policing of those quarantine laws under the previous and present governments in that State is far from satisfactory. I would suggest before the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  shakes his head that he talks to his colleagues from Western Australia who will understand what I am talking about. If an outbreak of an exotic disease takes place it will cost those industries several thousand million dollars. We are delaying providing ourselves with protection against that sort of loss by deferring the commencement of the building of facilities to produce the necessary virus serums. It has been put off as a money saving measure. I believe that that is almost criminal in that it neglects the urgent need of Australia to be selfsufficient in virus serums to counteract any outbreak of exotic animal diseases. I do not believe that the amount of money involved- it would most likely represent about $ 10m or $ 12m in the first year- would be badly spent even if it were as insurance in that area. 
The other areas are matters of decision by governments. The proposal to relocate Public Service departments outside the capital cities was one which was taken as part of a development program. I point out just how difficult it can be in a provincial area- I suggest that all provincial areas in Australia are similar to Geelong, the one I cite- for young people with some degree of education who are seeking employment. I also point out that these young people are those who are generally labelled dole bludgers, who on leaving school this year will be denied access to unemployment benefits for six to eight weeks. 
-No, I do not. They are generally called dole bludgers by people who wish to absolve their consciences from responsibility or who wish to find an excuse for not caring about their problems and plight. 
-The honourable member says: 'Some of them are'. I am sure that he can find fewer of them than he suggests. I would strongly recommend to him that he go to one of the Department of Labor discussion groups for young people and see the psychological damage and the damage to the morale of these young people that that type of term creates. 
-You cannot fire a shotgun into a crowd and then apologise to the people you hit on the basis that they were not the ones at whom you were aiming. The term is generally and widely applied and it is applied for malicious purposes. Those people who are operating in this field professionally know enough not to get caught and rarely get struck off the benefit lists because they understand the system and do not make the mistakes that are usually made by the people who are caught. I point out that most of those who get struck off are reinstated on appeal. 
The position to which I draw attention is the position in Geelong. Honourable members might mention those who are not trying to get jobs. Let me point out what opportunity there is for those young people who are genuinely trying. In the Geelong employment district, which takes in most of the Corio and Corangamite electorates, the total number of junior males seeking employment is 1064 and the number of job vacancies registered is twenty. The number of junior females seeking employment is 1243 and the number of job vacancies registered is thirteen. More than 2000 persons are seeking 33 jobs. That is the order of the problem which exists in that area, part of which I represent. It is the order of the problem which exists in most provincial cities in Australia. It will not be cured by giving additional subsidies to mining companies such as Utah Development Company to export more coal, most likely at lower prices. 
-I do not like the use of resources for purposes such as that where people 's needs are real and are being denied. 
-I suggest that the honourable gentleman knows very little about the generating of income. Not one job will be created this financial year as a result of that benefit in any of the areas about which I am talking. 
-There may be a boom in the next election year in order to get the honourable member re-elected. That is probably the purpose of it. The money could be spent better- and less of it could be spent- to provide jobs immediately if the Government were so disposed. I draw the attention of the House to one or two other matters in the time available to me. Most honourable members will have received letters from preschool centres complaining about the reductions proposed and outlined in a letter from the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  for financing the cost of staffing pre-school centres. Most honourable members will be in receipt of letters relating to the differential between the pensioner nursing home subsidy and the actual cost, which in Victoria is now about $30 a week and is about that amount in most States. At the current rate of increase it will reach $50 before the end of the financial year. Honourable members will be aware of the reductions which are taking place in the area of Aboriginal affairs. I am sure that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, is well aware of them and of the problems they will create. 
Debate interrupted. 
I wish to raise 2 specific matters which I hope the Ministers concerned will take into consideration. Unfortunately I have not notified the Ministers of my intention to raise these matters and one of them does not sit in this House. On 30 March this year the commercial vehicle plant was announced in this House. It was also announced that the matter of added protection for Australian manufacturers in the light to medium truck range would be referred to the Temporary Assistance Authority. As I understand it, that Authority was to provide emergency short term assistance to industries which were under threat. It is now some 5 months since that statement was made. The indication of referral was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and by the responsible Minister in a Press statement. Finality on whether or not a referral will be permitted has still not been reached. It would appear that if an emergency situation arises for an Australian industry then the period of time which elapses before a reference is made to the Temporary Assistance Authority could result in the industry being destroyed without any reference ever being made to the Authority. If the aim of the Authority is to provide emergency protection then I would respectfully suggest that the Minister might look at ways by which applications for assistance can be speeded up so that a decision can be made by the relevant tribunal. This present application is held up because of the number of people who are objecting to a reference. I think that should be decided at the tribunal level, not at the departmental level and I would ask the responsible Minister to see how quickly that matter can be resolved. 
The other matter to which I want to refer briefly is the question of payment in lieu of long service leave accrued to a Commonwealth public servant's dependants upon the death of the public servant. I understand that under the existing Commonwealth superannuation provisions the estate of a deceased person has no rights to the accrued long service leave payments as opposed to the situation of persons covered by private worker's compensation. I have had drawn to my attention- I have not got details with me- a specific case in which a woman incurred debts on the understanding that the debts would be met by the Treasury out of payment in lieu of accrued long service leave following the death of her husband. The woman concerned has had her claims rejected by the Treasury on the basis of some decision which I understand was initiated last year, not this year. So I want to make it quite clear that I am raising without political malice what I consider to be an inequity. I would ask the Minister concerned to look at the long service leave provisions covering Commonwealth employees to ensure that persons who have established rights to benefits are entitled to have those rights met whether or not the person survives to collect them. If it is income earned or rights accrued then it must be the responsibility of the employer, in this case the Commonwealth, to meet its obligations. I raise this matter briefly and ask the Minister concerned to look at it. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Has he any evidence of the major oil companies funding opposition to the use of alternative forms of fuel. 
-In the few moments that remain to me in this debate I want to draw attention to one other matter which is outlined in the Budget, namely, the deferment of aged persons accommodation commencements. A very serious situation in respect of accommodation for aged persons is developing in the electorate which I represent, and I think in most electorates. Accommodation of this type is subject to an extremely long lead time between the commencement of projects and its occupation. Pressure is also building up because of the increased differential between subsidies and the cost to aged persons living in private nursing home accommodation. As I mentioned last night, the differential in Victoria is currently around $30 and it will go higher during the year. 
The Government as an economy measure decided to spread over 3 years some portions of its contribution towards the provision of accommodation for aged persons. This slowing down of construction can only add to the problem and create conditions of serious hardship for large numbers of families and aged persons. I think it is an action which cannot but be considered to be reprehensible. I believe that the situation in which money is to be saved at the expense of the people concerned who are no longer in a situation to care for themselves and whose dependants are not always capable of looking after them is something less than satisfactory. 
I think the House is indebted to the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  for the manner in which he has put a case on behalf of the Government. I hope that his views and what he sees as being the rights of individuals do not reflect the human values of all Government supporters. He has made his position quite clear. He believes that those people who would seek to preserve anything in Australia against the rape of those who would make profits have no rights and should be looked on as nuts. He made that absolutely clear. He has stated his attitude with regard to Aboriginal land rights. He believes that they will only be to the disadvantage of mining companies. I suggest that the experience of other countries should be taken into consideration in Australia. If the honourable gentleman believes that everything is plain sailing in these areas, that anyone can go out and rape his country without any consideration or justification, then I suggest he has very little feeling for the country which he serves in this Parliament. 
-One-tenth of the total area of Australia is being used for this purpose; another tenth is being used for another purpose. Everywhere in Australia there is another purpose which should be served. Only a couple of years ago we had the Clutha development in New South Wales. I am sure the honourable member would describe people in the woodchip industry who are raping our forests as being good honest citizens earning a dollar. I suggest he should go to some European countries where no native forests are left. Australia will look like that within the next 30 years unless - 
-There is none. The honourable member suggested that that was a waste of time. A justification can be found for anything where there is a dollar to be made out of it. In the United States of America, Lake Michigan reached the stage where the water was poisonous because it was being used as a natural cheap sewer. Port Phillip Bay in Melbourne is being treated in exactly the same way. I hope it will be saved. A lot of Australia's natural resources and environment are in danger from overexploitation without proper care. 
The mining companies are there to make a dollar. They are not interested in what is left after they leave. I suggest that the honourable member for Swan, in his efforts to satisfy the mining companies, should leave well alone. I believe that the proper course was to allow an inquiry. It may well be that the inquiry will find in favour of the mining companies in this area. I am certain that if it does the Government will accept those findings. I think the Minister concerned has taken a proper attitude in waiting for the report to see exactly what the position is. I suggest that this House would do well to look at its own capacity to examine protection of the environment. I would have hoped that it was a matter that by now could have reached the stage of being treated as a non-party matter. But, unfortunately, wherever money is involved the country is not considered. I do not suggest that that applies to the majority of honourable members opposite. There are honourable members opposite who were in the previous Parliament who fully supported and spoke regularly on what was done. I would suggest that for any member of this House to say that an inquiry set up to study and report on a very serious long term problem for Australia should be treated with contempt and its report not waited for by the national Parliament is acting in a manner which is less than Australian. 
It is a sad occurrence to come into a debate following the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  when young people who will be seeking jobs at the end of this year face such a hopeless future. Apart from some political cliches, there was very little in what the Minister said which will give any encouragement to these people. The Minister should be aware that the May survey of the employment market showed that 180 000 teenagers were unemployed. At the end of this year another 200 000 teenagers will go on to the employment market. There is a very serious problem. Hysterical or historic commentary does not alter the fact that the present Government came into power on a policy of restoring employment opportunities. It has gone through a period of regression and repression of employment opportunities in those areas directly under its control without making any serious impact on unemployment or creating new employment opportunities. Promises given to the Australian community and believed by the Australian community last year have been broken. 
Let me give some indication of the nature of the problem of finding employment for young people, although the problem is not restricted to young people. The August unemployment figures show that in the Colac employment district in the Minister's electorate 227 junior males were registered for employment at the end of August and there was one vacancy. There were 212 junior females registered for employment and there were 3 vacancies. A similar set of figures relative to junior employment can be found for almost every other employment district in Australia. The Government is restricting Public Service intake and is cutting back on employment-creating programs. It is all very well to criticise the fact that 30 000 people were employed under the Regional Employment Development scheme last year. At least they were working, and even if the productive output of the scheme was only 50 per cent of the normally expected productive output it was at least some productive output in return for the expenditure of public money. Many of the projects which were funded under the scheme were worthwhile projects which brought about worthwhile results. 
-No more cost than the present cost of paying people unemployment benefit with no return to the community, only a serious loss of morale and confidence to the people concerned. If the honourable member for Bendigo is interested, I suggest that he go along at some time to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and sit in on one of the discussions which young people have with officers of that Department and become acquainted with the broken morale which exists among people genuinely seeking employment, who daily are called dole bludgers by people like the honourable member. 
-I am glad the honourable member does not. Too many people do. The Minister's own Department has withdrawn support for apprentice training schemes in the technical section of Telecom Australia. It has said that it does not consider this a reasonable area of expenditure. There is a serious shortage of tradesmen in the country. There is an oversupply of persons seeking apprenticeships, and the minister's Department has withdrawn financial support in that area. The suggestion of Commonwealth withdrawal of support for apprenticeship schemes and the transfer of responsibility for these schemes to the States was an abdication of responsibility of the worst type. 
I would hope it was never proposed. The suggestions are and all of the evidence is that the Commonwealth is withdrawing from every area in which it can avoid its responsibilities and is seeking to use the cover of the word 'federalism', which is the latest cliche, for its non-involvement. 
-I can only rely on the Minister's statement. 
-I would not expect the honourable member for Wakefield to be concerned.  His  main object is to create as much unemployment as possible by transferring employment from Australia to other countries. He wants aU protection removed. The Minister said that at the time the Government came to office the economy was sound and that it was the actions of the Labor Government which created the conditions which pose a threat to employment. I challenge that. The most significant factor of the economic problems which led to high inflation was the inability of the Liberal-Country Party, which lost office in 1972, to face up to the problem of the value of the currency. Because of the mineral boom, pressure of a type which had not been experienced previously was placed on the Australian dollar. The currency supply increased in the latter part of 1972 by an exorbitant amount, placing pressure on Australian manufacturing industry from which it has not recovered and most likely will never recover. The present Government is relying on a recovery by manufacturing industry to absorb those currently unemployed and to re-establish the level of employment which we suggest is desirable. That recovery will not occur. Even if demand and confidence are restored to the levels which existed in mid- 1974, not sufficient job opportunities will be created to absorb the people who are currently out of work and those who will be coming on to the work market in the near future. 
Changed procedures and methods of employment and marketing have reduced job opportunities in the areas where most young girls are seeking employment and have reduced job opportunities for trained young people. The Government, as an act of policy, has withdrawn itself from those areas of employment-creation which would absorb the trained young people who are currently in universities and colleges of advanced education whose educational period is about to come to an end and who are about to move off the end of the education production line at a time when the jobs for which they started training no longer exist. The National Employment and Training scheme was one of a number of training schemes devised to allow people in the work force to train so that their skills were applicable to the jobs which were available. The Government forced a large number of people out of this scheme during training by the changes it undertook in the financing of the scheme, making it financially impossible for large numbers of people to carry on. 
-The facts are that I have on my books the names of people who have been forced out of this scheme before completing thencourses. The problem with the honourable gentleman is that his area has a similar set of employment figures to mine, but obviously he is not terribly worried about that. I am worried. For his information, the Minister's electorate has an unemployment rate at the moment of 1 1.5 per cent, which I should think would worry any of us. 
-The matter I want to raise is purely parochial and I am sure will not elicit the type of drama produced by the last 2 speakers. I wish to direct the attention of the House, as I have directed, by way of a letter, the attention of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  to one of the problems for migrants in the Geelong area which has resulted from the amalgamation of the former Department of Labor and the former Department of Immigration and the separation of those departments since the change of Government last year. Prior to the amalgamation of the departments following the 1974 election, officers of the Department of Immigration serviced the Geelong area on a regular basis- I think for 5 half days a week. A decision had been taken at that time to establish a full time office of the Department in the Geelong area. I point out that some 22 per cent of the population of the area is of migrant origin and a very heavy work load for the migrant communities has been undertaken by the Department of Immigration. At the time of the amalgamation of the 2 departments, the officer who had been carrying out the duties of the Department of Immigration in the area was absorbed into the Department of Labor and Immigration and, as part of that Department's Commonwealth Employment Service in Geelong, still carried out the same duties. That was not as satisfactory as the previous position, although the officer was at least part of the Department and therefore in direct communication with departmental decisions. 
Since the Department has become a separate entity the officer concerned has remained with the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and on an agency basis has carried out those functions previously carried out for the Department of Immigration in its single and combined functions with the Department of Labor. However, the officer concerned is now an officer of another Department and is not in direct communication with the Department for which he is acting. He also has a work load which he is required to undertake by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. That is not a satisfactory situation because the area has a work load sufficient to justify direct service by the Department concerned. It also removes from the Department of Employment and Industrial 
Relations an officer whom they obviously need in the area. Certainly the officers concerned find it unsatisfactory, and I believe that the reestablishment of an office or regular visits by an officer of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is highly desirable. 
I draw this matter to the attention of the House. Because of administrative arrangements made by successive governments a service has been either lost to the area or downgraded. The migrants in the Geelong area, and I am sure the same situation exists in Wollongong and Newcastle, where similar offices had existed previously, need the services of an officer who is directly in touch with the policy decisions of the Department. I draw this to the attention of the Minister, and I hope that some action will be taken to re-establish a service which had been given to the area after representations by me and by the former member over a number of years. I ask the Minister to give the matter his immediate and favourable consideration. 
-The Opposition opposes this measure. Extremely limited opportunities exist for private members to participate directly in the proceedings and decisions of the Parliament. General business day provides one of the few initiative opportunities available to private members, and particularly to the Opposition. Even at this early stage in the Parliament a fairly full program of general business is listed for debate. Also a number of general business notices have not been brought to a vote. The Opposition believes that it will not impose a great hardship on the Government for it to give up the short period which is devoted to general business every second sitting week. A period of about 2 hours is provided for general business. The Opposition objects to the reversion to the pre-1972 situation. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  conveniently referred to the practice of past Liberal-Country Party governments. I point out that during the period of the Labor Government general business was dealt with during the Budget session and the opportunity was taken to bring most of the general business items to a vote. Accordingly, private members had the opportunity not only to bring forward matters for discussion but also to have the House express an opinion upon those items. 
I think that this is a retrograde step. At a time when some honourable members on the Government side of the chamber are making noises about participation by private members in parliamentary affairs, we have before us a motion that removes from private members one of the few rights that they have to initiate business in the Parliament. Yet I am sure that those honourable members opposite will support the motion. 
The normal procedures would allow something approaching 10 General Business days each year. By removing the opportunity for such days during the passage of the Appropriation Bills, the Government in fact is restricting the number of General Business days to eight or nine. Something like 17 items are now listed on the notice paper for consideration on General Business days. That means, in effect, that almost the whole of the 3 years of this Parliament is booked in relation to consideration of the General Business items on the notice paper and that any new items would not be brought on for debate within that period. In fact, some honourable members who want to put forward items for consideration will not be in the Parliament for long enough to enable them to put forward those items. There are also some 9 notices on the notice paper. Some of them are items that have been debated already but not voted upon. One of them is a major measure that was brought forward by the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  2 weeks ago. Only 25 or 30 minutes debating time was available for it because of the actions of private members of the Government Parties in taking up General Business day with motions of their own. 
The Opposition objects to the procedure of taking up the extremely limited time available to debate General Business items. I suggest that it is making a farce of the situation for either private members on the Government side of the chamber or the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  who frequently has made this type of assertion outside of the Parliament and inside it when it has been convenient, to suggest that participation by members of Parliament in decisionmaking is the aim of the Government when in fact the only major area open to private members to take an initiative is removed for a period of 3 or 4 General Business days. I do not think that it makes a great deal of difference to the passage of the Budget if 2 hours is devoted to discussing General Business every second Thursday morning. Certainly General Business days give honourable members an opportunity to initiate matters, and that opportunity is not substituted for by the opportunity that honourable members have to discuss matters in general in the Budget debate. Honourable members usually deal with matters relating to the economy in the Budget debate. That debate does not give them any opportunity to initiate business. Some major debates have taken place in this Parliament on General Business days. I indicate our opposition to this move and suggest that it is an unnecessary restriction that the Government is placing upon the rights of members. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Sinclair's)  be agreed to. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill, which brings television station licence fees into line with those of broadcasting stations, after a delay which was brought about in order to assist television stations with the introduction of colour television and also to compensate for the loss of revenue due to the phasing out of cigarette and tobacco advertising. The Bill will bring about an additional $624,000 in revenue and, apart from the phasing out of the fee differential between broadcasting and television stations, does not initiate any other action. It is interesting to note that in the second reading speech of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  one of the reasons given for the delay in bringing television stations into line with broadcasting stations was the encouragement of local content. I would have thought that that was a lost cause. It would appear that local content is rapidly declining, although  from  my observations over the last few weeks I think there will be some transfer of a local content program from the Australian Broadcasting Commission to commercial television, I  Would  imagine at considerable profit to both organisations. 
A very successful publicity campaign is being conducted at the moment by the  Chairman  of the ABC in order to achieve very high ratings for a program which will certainly appear on commercial television as soon as its sale can be arranged. I wonder whether honourable members opposite will protest about that program being shown on commercial television stations alongside such epics of drama as  The Box  and  Number 96.  I wonder whether private enterprise instincts will override their moral judgments, which they have expressed recently in relation to taxpayers' money being used in this .way. If money is to be made out of this program on the commercial stations, that is a different kettle of fish altogether. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. It looks forward to the revenue  from  licence fees collected by the Treasury being increased by the means I have just outlined. 
I rise to speak on a matter similar to that raised by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  However, in regard to the argument put forward by the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Short)  I should like to say in passing that last year when the Australian Medical Association was doing exactly the same thing to salaried doctors in the Canberra area I did not notice any support being given to those salaried doctors by honourable gentlemen opposite. Apparently if you are in the professions, black bans are different. 
I wish to raise a specific matter which is highlighted by the entry of certain Vietnamese refugees into Australia- to which I do not object -and the manner in which that entry was facilitated in the last couple of weeks. This differential treatment has caused problems and is causing concern to large numbers of Lebanese families who are seeking to have relatives enter Australia from the Lebanon. I deal with a specific case because I think it highlights problems with which most members of this House are confronted and which are frustrating many families almost beyond endurance. A gentleman in Geelong is seeking to have his brother return to Australia from the Lebanon. Like this gentleman in Geelong, the brother in the Lebanon is also an Australian citizen and therefore there are no problems in respect of entry or immigration but, unfortunately, he is crippled and unable to travel alone. The brothers have sought permission to have their sister accompany them to Australiathe sister is or was an air hostess- so she can attend to the needs of the crippled brother. The sister has applied for temporary residence. Quite obviously she would prefer permanent residence for herself, as would her 2 brothers, both of whom would be resident in Australia, but she has been refused temporary or permanent residence by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  on the ground that if she comes to Australia as a temporary resident she may seek to stay and that would constitute a future embarrassment. 
This is a normal procedure of the Department, and I do not query it, but it is a procedure that is being applied in this case to what is a refugee situation. The Department is preventing an Australian citizen from returning to Australia. The best advice that we are able to get is that if these people go to Cyprus or some other place their application will be considered. That is an unsatisfactory position because they are not in a position to take that sort of risk and then, if the sister's application is rejected, have to try to get back into Lebanon. The brother in Geelong is extremely concerned because this matter has been going on for a considerable time- much longer than should be the case. I believe that in this instance the strict interpretation of the immigration guidelines should not necessarily be applied. The girl, if she comes to Australia will be joining 2 brothers already resident here. She will be caring for an Australian citizen who is not able to care for himself, and therefore performing a useful service for the community. But more importantly, different standards of treatment are being applied as between persons who in every sense are refugees. 
It is time that consistency was observed in this type of operation where the strictest interpretations of the immigration criteria are being applied to people who are in tragic circumstances. The Minister's office is aware of the names of the persons concerned which I do not want to mention in the House. We are dealing with a family reunion situation. It is a situation in which an Australian citizen is seeking to return to Australia but is not able to do so without some form of assistance. I would ask that the matter be brought to the Minister's attention and that a satisfactory solution be sought. 
-The estimates for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs represent a very significant expenditure on a very large proportion of our population. Unfortunately migrants have been looked upon in the past, and still tend to be looked upon, as an easy supply of unskilled labour to occupy jobs which Australians will not readily accept in normal times. I am concerned at reports- one on  Four Comers  last week- of the Australian population's view of the standing of migrants. I was not in any way flattering to the Australian population. I think that basically migrants have not been given what I would consider is a fair deal in our society. Migrant English has been and still is substantially neglected. State departments tend to utilise teachers supplied for this purpose on the basis that if they have nothing else to do so they can teach migrants. Welfare among migrants, which is a very important area and which requires attention even more now than it possibly did in the past, is neglected and, I am sorry to say, appears to be administered on the basis of political patronage at the moment. I talk of the Italian organisation called FILEF (Federation of Italian Labourers, Emigrants and Families) which until this year had been serving a purpose which the present Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said was valuable among Italian migrant workers in Melbourne. It is now not to be provided with funds. In future the funds will go to a different organisation, on the basis that it is providing the service which FILEF pro,vided previously. 
I raise this matter because I want to refer to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  the reported remarks of  Mr Justice  Gibbs in the High Court to the effect that amnesty should have been granted to this gentleman, an Italian journalist whose deportation the Minister has ordered. The Minister may reply to this matter. Unfortunately the parties now occupying the Treasury bench have a long history of discrimination against persons with left wing leanings, as previous speakers have said. No similar discrimination is practised against persons with extreme right wing political leanings. This is a matter of concern and I hope the Minister will indicate - 
-I am quite correct in what I am saying. There is a very historic case on record about a gentleman who sold the  Tribune  for 30 years. When he reached the age of 70 years he was refused Australian citizenship on the ground that he was a security risk. He had to get naturalised at that time in order to get an Aus.tralian pension. The government of the day was so afraid of his vote, and that was the only other right he could have got, that it gave him  ex gratia  pension but still would not allow him to become naturalised. That shows how extreme on occasions is the party of which the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  is a member. I have only a short time in which to mention the case of this Italian journalist but I hope the Minister will consider it. The organisation concerned indicates that this gentleman has provided a valuable service in the field of migrant welfare. Irrespective of his political leanings it is important that people who can communicate with migrants and provide such a service stay in Australia. I point out that he was invited to Australia by that organisation; he did not come here seeking employment and is not occupying a job that someone else can do. 
I want to raise another parochial matter relating to my electorate, one which I have raised before. Prior to the amalgamation of the former Department of Immigration with the former Department of Labour the services of an immigration officer were regularly available in Geelong on, I think, five half-days a week. I think the Public Service Board agreed to that situation. It was one of those quirks that those gentlemen work out in their spare time when they have nothing else to do. That officer provided valuable service in Geelong where something like 25 per cent of the total population is made up of migrants. Upon amalgamation responsibility for that service was transferred to the Department of Labour. Following the re-separation of that Department that officer, now an officer of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, is still providing that service on an agency type basis. I believe it is in the best interests of all concerned that that service be provided by the Department directly concerned, by an officer who has the necessary continuing contact with the Department and government policy. There is a lot of work in the Geelong area for an officer of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and I hope the Minister will consider restoring that service to the migrant community of that area. 
There is another matter I ought to raise while we are dealing with the estimates of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer to the long delays experienced in obtaining replies to matters raised with the Department. I realise that there are communication problems but some of the delays seem to be exorbitant. Sometimes it is 6 months before a reply can be obtained to correspondence and that sort of thing. That period is excessive. The Minister has some correspondence that old in his office. I raise this matter because people do become quite concerned when there are long delays. Because of the present immigration restrictions there are large numbers of migrants who have raised immigration queries relating directly to members of their families who may or may not, in the final analysis, qualify for entry to Australia. An increasing number of cases of this type are coming before most honourable members. It would appear that an extension of our immigration program is to take place. The Minister was reported in that vein earlier this year in the Australian Press although he was most likely incorrectly reported. However I understand that some advertisements for additional migrants have been placed in England and this may tend to mislead people into thinking that we are increasing our migrant intake in a manner which is not intended. Certainly the replies I have received indicate that we are not increasing it. 
The reunification of families or of persons with close ties is important. In this regard I refer to the lesser migrant communities such as the Turkish community which want their relatives to come to Australia. The people in our Turkish community and other such communities have religious and other differences and are in desperate need of close relatives, especially in some areas. I believe that any relaxation in our immigration policy should be along these lines. Significant numbers of people are now talking of leaving Australia, not because they do not want to leave but because they are faced with spending a long time in a strange country without having relatives with them or without having the prospect of relatives coming to Australia. This is a worry to them and they are not prepared to face that situation. 
-It may not be particularly relevant in the Riverina electorate held by the honourable member who interjected but it is in my electorate. I do not have the White Australia Party campaigning for me. I want to refer to another matter which has been raised by every honourable member in this debate. I refer to delays in dealing with people wanting to come to Australia from the Lebanon. I do not know whether a reply went out today but I did raise one case about 3 weeks ago. It concerned a gentleman who wants his brother to come to Australia.  His  brother is an Australian citizen but is crippled. He requested that his sister be allowed to accompany his brother to Australia on a temporary basis. That request has been refused. He has been refused that right. He has 2 brothers in Australia and one is an Australian citizen currently in Lebanon. The request was refused on the ground that it cannot be ascertained that his sister will definitely leave Australia afterwards. I raise this matter again because it is a rather tragic case. I understand that the gentleman concerned cannot travel alone.  His  sister is an air hostess and has asked to come here on the basis of being a temporary resident. I understand that at some other stage she asked for permanent residence and I also understand that some other members of the family are involved. It should be possible for the Minister to approve temporary entry of that person to Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. What protection exists against dismissal by employers who may seek to take advantage of the Government's retraining cash grants by replacing existing employees, junior or senior, with employees who are eligible to receive the grants? 
I want to raise briefly a matter which affects a small number of Government employees in my electorate. For some years a small section of the Department of Construction has been operating from the Avalon airfield area. For a time it carried out maintenance work on the buildings at that airfield and on other Commonwealth installations in the Geelong region. The work load in that area has dropped, as has the number of employees involved. It is now an extremely small unit. During the past 12 months almost no maintenance work has been done in the Avalon airfield area. One other thing which took place over the last couple of years was that by some clever bookkeeping in relation to which such things as travelling time were not counted, the Department of Transport was able to claim that it could do its own maintenance cheaper than could the Department of Construction. It was clever bookkeeping. It was like a lot of the bookkeeping we see on the cost of some trips and so on. Some of the costs were just left out in the actual accounting. 
About 9 people are now employed there. If the work is done by the people who are employed to do it, there is more than adequate work for those employees. I understand that they are to be relocated at Laverton. They are to operate on a travelling basis doing such work as is required in the Geelong area. This is not a terribly satisfactory arrangement. As I have said, practically no maintenance work has been done in that area. I ask the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  to look into this matter. I do not know whether a complete close down is contemplated. I raised the matter some considerable time ago- prior to the change of Government- when it was suggested that the unit would close down. I think there is adequate work for a section of the Department of Construction in the Geelong area. This is certainly the case if the work which has to be done is done by the people on the spot in the Department of Construction rather than being done under a sleight of hand bookkeeping system. I think that is all we can call the methods by which some accounting is done within departments in order to show a lower cost figure than in fact occurs. Under normal circumstances there is sufficient work and justification for the maintenance of the unit. 
I raise one other matter while the Minister is in the House. Some weeks ago I asked him a question relating to certain contracts for the supply of carpet. He undertook at that stage to give me a written reply. He acknowledged my question in his written reply, but at this stage I have not received any information on who received the contracts and whether they went eventually to an Australian or a New Zealand firm. If the contract was given to a firm outside Australia, I also seek information from the Minister regarding the differential between the Australian price and the overseas price in the tenders. I understand that it was in fractions of a cent. 
Many people wrote to me yesterday but the mailman has not yet arrived. This is a matter of some concern. I note that the Government has made a statement of policy on obtaining goods within Australia. Some clarity of that would be appreciated by the House. I do not think that is within the area of the Minister's responsibility, but I do ask him to consider the first matter I have raised. He has told me that he has written to me regarding the second matter. I look forward to receiving his reply. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Have allegations of misappropriation of funds allotted for Aboriginal welfare in Victoria been brought to his attention. 
Has his attention been drawn to reports in which a member of the Aboriginal Consultative Council is alleged to have stated publicly that a Victorian Minister for Aboriginal Affairs used these funds for the provision of luxury office accommodation for himself and for the substantial up-grading of staff levels and accommodation of senior administrative staff of the State Department; if so, is there any substance to the allegations. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Treasury given approval for the deduction of contributions to Medibank private health funds from the salaries of Commonwealth employees; if so, when. 
2 ) Has similar approval been given in respect of contributions to the private health insurance funds; if so, when. 
-I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Were tenders by an Australian company for the supply of materials for Australian telephone books rejected? Were the contracts let to firms outside Australia? 
It is not the intention of the Opposition to oppose this Bill. We will facilitate its passage by not debating it. 
I wish to address the House about what I think is a tragedy in our part of the world. 
-The honourable gentleman may add to the levity which I heard in the House this morning and which I thought was disgraceful in relation to the situation about which I am going to talk. I refer to the military takeover in Thailand and the tragic events both preceding and surrounding that takeover. I repeat that I thought it was equally tragic that certain people in the House this morning thought that it was a joke. 
-I think the honourable gentleman would fully support the military takeover, including the public hanging, because it happened to be a right wing takeover. 
-I am glad that the honourable member does not take the matter seriously. 

 -Mr Speaker, the honourable member visits the House occasionally and opens and closes his mouth in rapid order. 
-The matter on which I wish to speak is, I think, one of extreme gravity and should be treated as such. Last year, as leader of a parliamentary delegation, I, with other members of this House, had the privilege of having discussions with the deposed Prime Minister. At that time he was the leader of the majority party in the Thai Parliament and the Leader of the Opposition. He was a gentleman who was, at that time, looking forward more to retirement than a further period of office. He had been Prime Minister on 3 occasions previously.  His  major concern, as was that of most people in the Parliament, was the maintenance of the parliamentary system. Thailand has had a long history of military politicians. It seems that they do that better than they do the job for which they are ostensibly paid, that is, running the army. The major problem with the army in Thailand is that no general ever leaves Bangkok. They prefer to talk about the problems in the country but they are not game to leave the capital because generals who leave the capital tend to come back as privates. 
The takeover which has taken place is, I believe, unfortunate for a number of reasons. The democratic experiment in Thailand has hardly had a chance to work. There have been 2 Prime Ministers since the experiment commenced. They were feeling their way into a democratic system. The military had given undertakings that it would support the system. It appears the military went underground awaiting its opportunity. The present crisis was prompted by the former military dictator coming back to the country. The tragedy for our part of the world is that the fall of that democracy endangers the future freedom of the people of Thailand because the military has again involved itself in politics. It will take an extreme right wing stand which will bring about reactions from the country's neighbours, especially where their nationals are threatened. I hope that a restoration of proper democracy can take place very quickly otherwise I fear, as I am sure will any honourable member who thinks about it, that the opportunity for a restoration of democratic government will be gone for ever. 
Too few democratic governments survive in the world. Those which are surviving in Asia are almost all currently under challenge. It seemed to me, at the time we visited the country, that Thailand had a democratic form of government with a real chance of success in confronting real problems. The intervention of a military dictatorship, whether it happened to be of the right, as it is at the moment, or of the left as it is likely to be in the future because of this action, will not help the situation anywhere in Asia. It does, in fact, I believe endanger the freedom of that country. 
-In speaking to the estimates of the Department of Primary 
Industry I think it is about time that this chamber had its attention drawn to what must be the greatest single risk to primary industry in Australia. It is a risk which has been allowed to continue over an extended period of time. This year work was scheduled to start on the establishment of an animal research laboratory facility to provide serums and other protection against exotic animal diseases. Every honourable member will be aware that any outbreak of exotic disease in Australia will immediately close our export markets for beef and other meat products. Commencement of work on this facility has been deferred for at least 12 months and, most likely, indefinitely. That, in itself, would not be serious if we were assured of long-term supplies of the necessary serums and also if we were confident that our quarantine facilities were up to scratch. I recognise that quarantine is a matter for the Department of Health but the Department of Primary Industry must have the major vested interest in the success or failure of quarantine facilities in Australia. 
I draw attention to the situation which has existed in Western Australia over a long time. There has been a dispute between the administration of the Department of Health and quarantine officers in the field, or one quarantine officer in the field in particular, to the extent that during part of this year no qualified quarantine officer has been operating at Port Hedland. The greatest amount of snipping tonnage in Australia passes through this port. It comes from areas where there are materials which are quarantinable and which could carry the types of viruses which would set off diseases which would destroy sections of our primary industry. The port of Fremantle and other Australian ports subsequently fumigate more ships which have passed through Port Hedland than through any other port in Australia. The quarantine record at Port Hedland is abominable, to say the least. I think the quarantine officer is currently suspended. He may be back at work but that is immaterial. He was subjected to direction from clerical administration personnel on whether fumigation of ships was warranted. As I said a moment ago, the number of ships which pass through Port Hedland without being quarantined and which are subsequently fumigated in other Australian ports is extensive. I would say there are too many ships. Too much politics is involved and not enough consideration is given to the problem concerned. 
We have been extraordinarily lucky. For instance, a few years ago Argentina suffered an outbreak of foot and mouth disease. Its export beef industry was totally destroyed. Our industry faces problems, some of which are in the political area. I point out that material from international flights which pass through Perth airport has for years been dumped on an open tip. I understand that an incinerator has now been put in. This is not something isolated to the period of one government. It has been going on for a long time. If honourable members look at the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration they will note a reference calling for an independent inquiry into the treatment and handling of quarantine matters in Western Australia. I repeat that, in the first instance, this is not a matter which is the responsibility of the Department of Primary Industry. But I suggest that that Department will be most affected in this situation because these conditions have existed for too long as a result of internal politics in another Department. 
I point out that the policy speech of the National Country Party of Australia, issued for the last election, indicated that it believed in the establishment of a maximum security laboratory for research into exotic diseases. Unfortunately, the Government has felt that it can afford to place major sections of our primary industries at risk as a money saving operation. In fact, this year the Government will save an expenditure of less than $10m. This will delay this project for at least 12 months and, most likely, increase the cost of it by the amount the Government has already saved. I think the Government should look at this project as a matter of urgency. Certainly, it should make serious inquiries into the questions surrounding quarantine in Western Australia. This matter has already been the subject of at least one investigation. Quite clearly, the situation is less than satisfactory. Certainly, quarantine inspections of the level which Australian primary industries should be demanding are not being carried out in that State. If they are, then other States, where second port of call fumigations appear to be the norm, must be overzealous. I doubt that that is the case. 
I think it is important that the Committee look not at nice words. It is easy to say what a great thing the farming community or any other community is. It is important that the Committee should have before it the realities which face primary industries rather than those things which honourable members would like farmers to think they face or which farmers themselves would like to think they face. The realities are that markets will become increasingly more competitive and costs within Australia will not be reduced. Anyone who suggests that either of those propositions is not true believes in fairies. They are facts of life. At the moment there appears to be agitation, at least within the office of the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  and possibly within the National Country Party itself, to solve what is a long term problem with the short term solution of devaluation. The other problem which I see facing primary industry is what I would describe as the cannibalism technique. This has been developed over a period of years. If one section of the industry starts to decline and if another section has had a good year there is a rush to move into that section of the industry. Thus, that section of the industry is very quickly destroyed or brought into a situation of less than satisfactory returns for the traditional growers. The dairy industry is currently in that situation. I think it is worth while pointing out that not many years ago the present Minister for Primary Industry or the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia- I am not sure who was Minister at the time- asked the Victorian Government to stop expanding its supply of dairy farms in the Heytesbury area. The Minister was told very promptly to go jump in the lake, that while people were prepared to go on farms the Victorian Government would keep putting them on the farms. Up until earlier this year that was still the policy of the Victorian Government although at the other end of the State people were being bought out and commercial forests were being established on dairy farms. A lot of short-sighted policies which are designed to meet an immediate political need are being pursued. After Britain did not get into the Common Market in 1964, for instance, there was encouragement from the National Country Party, both inside and outside this chamber, to people in Victoria to grow pear trees. About 8 years later we had a scheme under which they were paid to pull the trees out again. It was shortsighted and it brought tragedy to a lot of people who were told that both schemes were in their interests. If there is no serious consideration of long term problems, the problems will grow rather than diminish. 
-A considerable amount of time and investigation could usefully be spent on examining the estimates of the Department of Transport. Transport is becoming one of the great problems of the second half of the twentieth century. The fact that major transport operators are no longer able to guarantee profitability is a matter of serious consequence. The central parts of our major cities cannot really cope with the current levels of traffic flow. There is a lack of adequate transport facilities in our major cities, especially from the outlying districts. The construction of endless miles of freeways will not solve these problems without the total destruction and disorientation of the central areas of cities. 
Australia is confronted with greater problems than other countries are because of its small concentrations of population spread over a vast area which must be traversed; but this cannot be done economically. The current situation is that transport is tending to decline in a number of areas because of a lack of profitability on the part of operators and the incapacity of the community to meet the costs of the provision of reasonable transport services. This problem exists not only in the cities but also outside the cities. 
We are also losing the ability to service our transport requirements. Railways have reached the position of being bulk carriers and that is probably their most economic function. Coastal shipping is in decline and most likely will continue to decline. I think it is a matter of concern that railways, which should not have the capacity to be competitive with shipping in terms of long haulage bulk carriage between mainland ports, should in fact be more than competitive in some areas. This is something that people involved in the maritime industries ought to be looking at very seriously. It is fair to say that it would be possible for shipping to become more competitive if the Commonwealth shared its involvement in the various parts of the transport system. But I suggest that is a conjecture that has most likely very little substance because immediately Australian involvement moved out of this area we would be completely at the mercy of the shipowners whose reputation throughout the world has never been one of benevolence and the freight charged would likely be the highest the market could bear. 
I believe that this Committee, the Government and the Department whose estimates we are considering have to look very seriously at the subject of long term investment in our transport industries in order to make sure that the capacity to move goods between population centres and between points of production and points of usage still exists at a level which will enable the community to continue to use those goods. We are confronted with some problems. The very heavy losses suffered by Qantas Airways Ltd last year must be a matter of concern. I understand that the situation currently is in reverse. But the facts are at any time a price cutting war could take place in respect of international air routes and 
Australia would have little influence on such a situation. 
The suggestion that one of our domestic carriers might enter the overseas air traffic field, even on a fringe basis in the initial stages, should be looked at with very great suspicion as such a move would reduce our ability to compete in those areas and would reduce the standing of Qantas as an international airline. It would also endanger the structure of both the 2-airline policy and our international operator. 
The most pressing problem, and the one which must be tackled, is the incapacity or capacity of our cities to handle the movement of traffic. Traffic is growing at a rate that is far in excess of the capacity of the road systems to handle. The inner suburbs of Melbourne and Sydney are being inundated with through traffic. The municipalities of those areas must bear the costs brought about by the heavy flow of through traffic which does not create any revenue or satisfaction but in fact destroys the urban environment in which the people in those municipalities live. 
A large number of forms of transport are evolving and they should be investigated to determine their suitability for moving large numbers of people from point to point. Bulk carriers in Melbourne- and I think the situation is the same in all major population centres- such as suburban railways and trams are geared to carry traffic to the central point or major city area. There is virtually no co-ordination even between government-owned and operated transport. There is little provision for the movement of traffic across urban areas from the point of residence to the point of employment which, especially in the case of factory workers, tends to be not in the central city areas but off to the fringes of the city areas. A considerable cost will be involved in re-organising the urban transport systems so that those systems can cope with a greater proportion of the demand. I think that we are all sufficiently realistic to know that when people can use their private motor cars they will continue to do so even though the cost to the community is very extreme. The movement of people en masse is a problem that has to be confronted. The pace at which motor vehicles in Melbourne and Sydney travel during peak hours on working days is almost zero, and it will continue to decline, if that is possible. The only form of relief is in inner urban transport planning, the cost of which will be extreme. Up to date, the capacity of the State governments to provide this facility has been very low. 
The Department of Transport has a very important community service to carry out. I wish to mention only one other matter, namely the State of Tasmania which is almost totally dependent for its economic viability on the manner in which the Department operates. At the moment, that is under some threat because of reductions in transport and passenger opportunities to that State. Tasmania is extremely dependent. It was promised considerable assistance; it does not look like getting it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  luck in his campaign against the employment export agency called the Industries Assistance Commission. 
-The same as the Tariff Board. I want to speak about a matter which is of concern and which I think should be investigated. I refer to the rip-off of the public which is about to take place with the introduction of push-button telephones into the Telecom system. These phones are said to be a technological change. 
-At the price that is going to be charged, no. They are about to be introduced in Adelaide and will be marketed in Australia as an advance. It is intended that an additional rental of the order of $24 per annum will be charged for these phones. There will be a connection charge of something of the order of $50 and an additional charge for connection of $20, making a total in the first year of about $ 100 to have one of these phones fitted into a house. The phones operate with exactly the same wiring as an existing telephone and where a changeover is required it involves taking out one screw where there are not multiple plugs in the house and where there are multiple plugs the person concerned could take a new handset home and take the old one back to the marketing section of Telecom with no cost to anyone. It is purely and simply a matter of using a technological advance to take down telephone subscribers. 
I suggest that charges which are to be made for a changeover, which is of no technical substance whatsoever, are excessive. The additional rental of $24 a year for the unit is also excessive. I suggest to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  that he take up the matter with Telecom and ask for the reasons for charging these connection fees and the additional rental, which are excessive. No additional exchange facilities are required. This is a charge for what is really only a fad. More than likely the telephones are an advance on existing telephones and it is likely to be an advantage to a lot of people to have a phone which is easier to dial. Most people who use telephones fairly regularly, especially since the introduction of the Ericsson system, find that the number of wrong numbers dialled is on the increase. I understand that the new system is simpler and therefore will reduce costs, especially for people whose eyesight is failing. 
-It may sound funny, but if you are dialling a local number and you get an interstate number and it takes a few minutes to wake up to what is going on, you are in trouble. You have to pay for it whether it was a mistake or not. The point I make is that members of the public who may wish to have this facility should be able to have it at reasonable cost. It is not reasonable to charge something like $70 to change a telephone in a house which could be done in 2 minutes. It requires no wiring, no exchange faculties and no other technical equipment or installation. To add to that an extra rental charge of $24 a year is a rip-off of the worst order. I do not think it is good marketing and I think Telecom ought to be asked to review it. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that overseas branches of the Commonwealth Bank charge a fee for holding mail for customers. 
Is this fee charged for a minimum 12 months period irrespective of the length of time the customer will be using the service. 
If so, does this constitute an imposition on short term visitors who may pay $5.40 for a year's service irrespective of their usage. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did an Australian citizen of Lebanese origin, presently in Lebanon, seek to have his sister accompany him to Australia because of his inability to travel alone due to medical reasons. 
Was the application supported by a brother of the applicant who lives in Australia. 
Did he refuse the application; if so, is it considered that the girl constituted a threat to Australia. 
Did his refusal deny an Australian citizen the opportunity of returning to Australia. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Have tenders for the supply of carpet to his Department been finalised. 
If so, is the contract to be let to an Australian manufacturer. 
If the contract is not to be let to an Australian manufacturer, what was the price difference between the tender accepted and the lowest tender by an Australian manufacturer. 
What is the quantity of carpet involved. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Have projections been made of population shifts to the capital cities inthe next 5 years; 
If so, in what age groups are the main movements expected. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that contracts for the supply of rope for the Royal Australian Navy, previously provided by Australian firms, has been let to sources in Taiwan and other overseas countries? 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker, I second the motion. I am surprised that the Government is trying to avoid debate on a matter upon which the national Parliament should have expressed an opinion. I am certain the reason for this is the Minister's bungling in Canada. 
That the honourable member for Corio be not further heard. 
Question put. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Has he directed the Postal Commission to meet charges, required to be met from Consolidated Revenue under the Commission's Act, to be funded from the Commission 's own income. 
If so, was this direction by letter as required in the Act. 
If so, will he table the letter. 
-I was interested to note that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said Hear, hear' while the honourable member was speaking. When the 25 per cent cut in tariffs took place I think he was one of the people who applauded that cut. Subsequently he got wise. We are discussing the estimates of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. Both areas covered by this Department are critical, now and in the long term, for the planning of any government and for the welfare of the community at large. I want to deal with problems which it appears are being overlooked or which, perhaps, are being transferred. This evening the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  made fairly extensive reference to the fact that we are neither looking at nor tackling the structural problems associated with the future of the employment market of Australia. I do not believe that any amount of talking or wishing can bring about a situation whereby the manufacturing industry, in both the private and the public sectors, can take up the young people who are now coming on to the job market. It cannot employ them at all, let alone employ them in the manner in which we have trained them to be employed. I think both points are relevant. 
The manufacturing sector is a declining sector of the labour market. More and more its production is becoming subject to technological progress. Automation is the vital word. Our industry has to be efficient and competitive and. a lot of it is not. I think we can acknowledge that fact without saying that our industry should be forced to compete in circumstances where competition is not possible. 
I was concerned at some remarks made earlier this week by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  He said that he had spoken to Australian businessmen in the Philippines and he indicated pretty clearly that he thought the type of labour relations and wage restraints in that country would be beneficial to Australia. Wages in the Philippines are pegged by martial law decree, and have been for 3 years. The average wage there is about $4.80 a week and civil liberties for employees do not exist. Foreign firms which go to the Philippines are offered benefits to establish their businesses there. There is almost no taxation; there is free land and assistance in setting up the plants. I would point out also that the inflation rate in the Philippines, despite the fact that practically no wages are paid, is almost no different from that in Australia. 
Australia's structural employment problems have been developing over a fairly long period and will not be solved quickly. They did not arise last year or the year before; they have been arising over the last 10 or 20 years. Automation or mechanisation first moved into areas where most junior females and males seeking work in what is generally termed the clerical and administrative area would seek work. It is also true to say that non-metropolitan areas are traditionally weak in employment opportunities. Therefore, with mechanisation, computerisation and other processes in offices there has been a considerable decline in job opportunities. In fact these things have almost wiped out job opportunities in most provincial areas. Some moves were made last year artificially to create jobs in some of those areas. 
-It did not get the opportunity to work. 
-A lot of things can be done in 3 years but this was not one of them. I suggest that the Government of which the honourable member is a supporter cannot do it in 3 years either. It is a long term structural program. As I said, efforts were started last year and, if I may say so, a State government of the same colour as the honourable member's party was more responsible for delays than anyone else. The problems in provincial areas are great. I think the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations who is at the table is as aware as I am of the long term problems which Geelong- a city in which we share electorates- has with both young boys and girls seeking jobs in the category which I have already mentioned. I do not know the solution. Certainly, it is not in seeking to transfer those young people into the capital cities. I think that as a long term or short term solution that would have a disastrous social consequence. It denudes areas of young people, especially trained young people who become the next generation. Unfortunately, at the moment that appears to be the only solution to their employment problems. 
A number of specific cases, I think, ought to be raised. One of them is in relation to the terms under which unemployment benefits are made available for juniors, especially junior females. The terms, as they are set out at the moment and as they are administered, leave junior females open to pressure which should not be allowed or applied to persons seeking employment. If a person offends his employer- there is no appeal against what is an offence against the employerthe person concerned is fined 6 weeks unemployment benefits. If that person is living alone and paying for accommodation he is placed in economic jeopardy because he has 6 weeks without income. I suggest to the Minister that he must have within his Department cases where female employees especially, and I suggest junior males, have made complaints to his Department because they were asked to carry out functions which were not properly part of their employment. They should not have been requested to do so. This gives an employer too much leverage over his employees. While I acknowledge that that is the Government's normal position, I believe that there should be some independent person who is completely outside the departments and who can examine quickly any case of this nature which comes forward. 
There is a tendency for unemployment benefits to be stopped for very little reason at all. The problem for a person whose unemployment benefits are stopped is that under the guidelines that exist, although that person may win the appeal, he is without money for something like 4 weeks. If he is in a situation of independent support his position is jeopardised, he is not independent and not able properly to defend himself in society. I raise one other matter which I think is of some consequence. Recently the Minister announced a new retraining scheme for school leavers who had not had any substantial employment since leaving school at the end of last year. I am aware that one of the real problems is lack of training among a number of juniors. Unfortunately, the terms of the scheme require 6 months' unemployment since leaving school. This condition tends to react against the person who has genuinely been seeking and taking any employment available. The person who left school last year, who has had serious employment difficulties but who has scrounged around and got enough employment so that he could work a sufficient period but who has not had a total of 6 months employment, is denied this retraining. The person who has not tried so hard is seriously disadvantaged in relation to training which may assist him for the rest of his life. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The first thing I should like to say is that the title of the Department is in fact a misnomer. The Department's estimates substantially deal with the broadcasting side of telecommunications and only a very minor part of the estimates relates to the postal and telecommunications areas. I think it would be in the best interests of both the Commissions and public understanding of the current role of those Commissions if the title of this Department were altered, possibly to the Broadcasting and Communications Department. That is really what the Department is all about. It deals in a limited fashion with advice to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  relating to the 2 Commissions, but they are very much a subsidiary section of the Department's operations. 
It would be easy to spend the whole of the 10 minutes allocated to me in this debate to dealing with the problems which currently surround the Australian Broadcasting Commission and broadcasting in general. It is unfortunate that at a time when we are considering these estimates the Committee has not been given the benefit of being able to examine the Green Committee's report on broadcasting which I understand has been before Cabinet but no decisions have been taken. I am not in a position to comment on these recommendations of the Committee, or on the basis of the inquiries which led up to them because we have not seen the report. Apparently the Government at this stage has not been able to make up its mind on the substantive recommendations that were made. 
Quite obviously there are other areas of broadcasting. The Opposition and I think a lot of people would be concerned at the general publicity which has been given in recent months to ABC news bulletins and other programming. It is just about time that this sort of controversy ceased so that confidence in the independence of the Commission could be re-established, or established, and that all people could be confident that the Commission is not being subject to forms of political direction. 
I would not be surprised. The matter I wish to deal with primarily in the short time available relates to the Telecommunications Commission. Few members of this House would not have been in receipt of complaints relating to the size of accounts people receive for their telephone metered calls. It is always insisted that the meters are accurate. In fact it is suggested that where they are defective they are more likely to record a lower unit call rate than in fact takes place. This unfortunately does not satisfy a person who, having been used to receiving $60 bills for a period of time, suddenly finds himself with a bill of the order of $300 to $400. In one case I recently received representations about a bill of $800 for metered calls alone. Despite the assurance of the Department there is at least some doubt about the continuing accuracy of meters. I understand that a system is available to meet this problem. Installation of it was suggested in 1973 and would have been the responsibility of the Government of which I was a supporter. This was deferred, almost certainly on Treasury advice I would imagine, because of the cost. My understanding is that the cost now would be about 4 times what it would have been at that stage but that it is intended that the system will be applied to telephones which are connected to the overseas dialling system. I suggest that if there is an economically viable system which could provide a record of local calls similar to that which is available for trunk line calls that system should be installed. I think that some of the doubts which are expressed are real. I think it is unfortunate that officers of the Telecommunications Commission, Telecom, are placed in a position where they are not able to establish the validity of their claims that the charging methods are accurate. 
The other question that arises is the alternative which is available to the subscriber. In one recent case which was taken up with me the person concerned indicated that she had decided that she would utilise exchange services for all trunk line calls in order to prevent a recurrence of an unverifiable bill for metered calls. The bill for metered calls went from $240 to $890 in that period, and obviously the lady involved was somewhat concerned. The other aspect of that matter is that having had a large account and wishing to avoid a similar occurrence, because she decided to use the exchange facilities she was also charged an additional amount for using those facilities. Where some doubt has been expressed about an account and the person concerned endeavours to record exactly what calls have been made and to keep the calls within economic limits- and with STD it is very easy to go over those economic limits- a penalty is applied. Even though there is some cost to the Department, that penalty appears to be unjustified. I hope some consideration can be given to installing the AMA system generally and not just for overseas subscriber dialling. It would provide officers of the Department with a ready answer to complaints received. It would also give confidence to persons who are wrongly chargedand there are some- and who have no way of checking. Someone now has to make a guess of the actual call rate, and this gives the subscriber no confidence in the system. 
One other matter which I wish to raise and which is becoming a problem within the telephone system relates to people charging calls to numbers from which they are not calling and to which they have no right of access. It is difficult for anyone to establish that this practice is taking place, but it is occurring increasingly. It is not unusual for an exchange not to call back but to connect immediately. That is very simple to do. I have come across a number of cases where this practice certainly was occurring. Usually the calls are charged against organisations or persons who would normally have a fairly substantial telephone usage, when it does not automatically show up. By this means calls can be and are being made and charged against persons for whom no responsibility should exist. I think it is an area where some corrective action should be taken. 
Finally, I want to make one other point. Before the Minister came into the chamber I said that I thought the title of his ministry was a misnomer. The estimates show quite clearly that his Department is the department of broadcasting and communications, and I think that a retitling would act as a public relations exercise to establish that the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission are in fact separate corporations and not ministerial departments. That action could well be taken with advantage to both of the Commissions, the community at large and perhaps the Minister as well. In my opinion, it is important that the Commissions should operate as separate entities and be seen to operate as separate entities to the extent that that is possible. We all understand and acknowledge the control exercised in relation to funding. The control which the Treasury exercises over the funding of the Commissions we do not understand. It is not understandable, and I would suggest is very bad for the business practices of the Commissions. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I briefly want to raise some matters relating to these appropriations. The first question I raise is one of substance. It relates to the works program for the Parliament. The appropriation is not shown under the appropriations for the Parliament but elsewhere. In Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1 976-77 there is no estimate relating to the Parliament. The estimate shown under the Department of Construction is $25,000, of which $ 1 5,800 is for work already in progress, leaving an amount of $10,000 for this year. I also point out that there has been a considerable reduction of $3,000- the effective reduction is considerably more- in the amount available for repairs and maintenance. This is a technical matter and I understand that it will be worked out during the year. 
I had hoped that the  Speaker  would be present to hear what I have to say about the matter of substance, the whole question of parliamentary estimates. I had told him that I was going to raise this matter and I had hoped he would be here to reply to me. When the last set of appropriations was before the House I was in the position now occupied by the  Speaker  and difficulties arose in respect of financing the Parliament. There was a dispute between the 2 Houses. Because the parliamentary estimates are part of the normal budgetary appropriations for the year by the Treasurer the estimates for the Parliament were tied up in the dispute that took place. I am not talking altogether about that dispute. The point I raise, and I hope it is considered, is that the Parliament should have a separate appropriation which should be sought and carried through by the Presiding Officers. Such financial control as is necessary on the part of the Government could be exercised by the Government in this House and in the prior and subsequent negotiations about spending. All honourable members know that this is both practical and necessary. No section drawing on the public purse can have open access to funds. 
Last year, because of delays in dealing with requests for additional appropriations, funds were not available to the Parliament for some 2 months, in August and September, to meet its bills. Parliament could well have been in the embarrassing situation that items of furniture in this place which were rented could have been repossessed for debts of only small amounts of money. I seriously put to the Parliament the proposition that the estimates for the Parliament should be dealt with by means of a separate appropriation on the request of the Presiding Officer. That person would have to be the Presiding Officer in this House. In order to bring that about it may be necessary for the Presiding Officer to be sworn as a member of the Executive Council. That would not create difficulties. 
Possibly it would be a precedent in our system but that is not so in systems similar to ours. This would place the Parliament in the position that its funds could not be jeopardised. Its continued operation during disputes could not be jeopardised by differences between the political parties. I think the Parliament should be above that situation. As I say, financial control is not difficult for a government to exercise. No Governor-General, for instance, would appropriate and no House in which the Government had a majority would appropriate to the Parliament, money which it considered was not warranted. It would be a change. Such a change has already been suggested by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in a notice of motion which is on the notice paper. I hope that some action can be taken. 
I raise another question which relates to the adequacy of the appropriations as they appear. I have been assured that action is to be taken on this matter. The amount appropriated for maintenance on this building for 12 months is $63,000. 1 suggest that at the end of 12 months, if that amount is not increased we will not have lights working in the place. Certainly, the bucket brigade which catches water when it rains will have to be increased and our wages bill for that service will add to our costs. The building is in a condition where its age makes it certain that it will continue to deteriorate. There will be no new works under this program during the year and there will be no improvements to the poorer parts of the building, that is, those parts which are in a state of disarray and badly in need of repair. I suggest that the area used by the refreshment room employees which has had some patching up in the last 12 months is still a disgrace to the Parliament which employs the people who work there. Nothing will be done this year. We acknowledge that this is part of a program of cost cutting. But what we put off this year becomes more expensive next year. It may well be that there will be short term savings for long term costs. That is the only matter I wish to raise. I am sorry that  Mr Speaker  is not here to reply. I am sure that he would have more to say on the subject along the same lines as I have followed. 
-Briefly, the Opposition supports the proposition. Actually, the bells in this House ring for 2 minutes for the calling of a quorum. The honourable member might take a reading course during the half-hour he will have off next Tuesday week. The Victorian Parliament treats the matter much more seriously. Its members take off the whole week so they can go to the Melbourne Cup race and afterwards recover. 
I wish to raise a matter which is of growing concern and which, unless something is done about it, could have serious consequences for any business recovery which may take place or which may be taking place in this country. During recent months and over a protracted period of 2 Governments, the activities of the Industries Assistance Commission have been a source of considerable concern to substantial proportions of manufacturing industry, in the latter period to trade unions and, I think now, to most sections of the community. The problem is related to the announcements of inquiries and the delays which take place before reports can be presented. But latterly there are also the interim reports which are being made which immediately give some indication of the intention of the Commission but which also stir up considerable agitation in the community. Then there is a period while further evidence is heard. A final report is then made. Subsequently there is a government decision which is fairly regularly different from the terms of the final report and which rarely is as stringent as the recommendations of the Commission's report. 
The problem I see is that the Commission itself appears to take no cognisance of the importance of employment, especially outside the metropolitan areas and of those specific industries which seem to operate in greater numbers outside the capital cities. Also when it is suggested that there are more efficient areas of production to which the work force could be diverted, the Commission makes no announcement as to where those efficient areas of production exist. One of the things that is said regularly in economic and academic circles and unfortunately in political circles is that human resources ought to be diverted into more efficient areas of production. If one looks at the Australian scene at the moment and looks at specific industries, it will be seen that the effect of a number of IAC reports over a considerable period has been to take away from Australian industry the skilled areas such as design, drafting and tooling and to maintain in Australia the production areas which require practically no skill and are numbing and demoralising for those people who work in the industries involved. Even now, with high unemployment, some of these sections of industry have extraordinary difficulty in filling the jobs which are available because they are jobs which no people, or very few people, would choose to perform except in the most dire circumstances and then only for very short periods. Migrants brought here over the years for the specific purpose of filling those jobs have usually managed to find other employment of a more attractive nature within 6 months. 
What I am concerned about is that the IAC reports and preliminary reports do considerable damage to confidence in that they are announced publicly. I do not object to public discussion on them or to their being available to the industry, but they rarely appear to be in line with the general feeling of the Government of the day as to what sort of action should be taken and what policies should be pursued relating to industry. They are also based on a premise which is almost a prayer. It is certainly part of the conventional wisdom of those people who make pronouncements on economic policies without accepting the responsibility for the ultimate conclusions which would come from their pronouncements if carried through. I suggest that the test of economic advice is to have a look at the advice given by people 10 or 20 years previously as to long term policies. Unfortunately or fortunately, few academics have been able to have their advice put to a long term test of that nature. The fact that we still have some people working is most likely a tribute to that. 
Recently there was a statement in the annual report of the IAC which recommended a toughening up on assistance and references to the Temporary Assistance Authority. At one stage the Authority rejected 13 applications straight. The  Chairman  says that the Authority should toughen up on these matters. I presume he means that the Authority should refuse the applications in the first place so that hopelessness becomes the norm rather than the result. The other thing which I find of concern is that most of the industries which are due to be wiped out or which are recommended by the Commission to be wiped out are industries which have a high employment content of females. In most instances they are the only substantial female employment areas in non-metropolitan areas. I do not want to have my remarks looked upon as being too unbalanced in this area. But there are serious problems in some of these industries. Some of these problems may be due to employees, although in the textile industry I think it would be hard to substantiate that the employees have been the fat cats in the labour reward market. One of the problems which did confront the industry was equal pay for women. But it has been a traditionally low pay area. One of the problems that has confronted the textile industry and which still confronts that industry and a number of other industries with which we are concerned has been a lack of re-investment and in some cases, a lack of continuing professional management competence. For instance, numerous textile firms are still using machinery which would have been replaced in other countries 20 years ago. Also, a person with a particular skill in keeping his firm profitable and going has been able to maintain a firm which is largely inefficient by marketing methods of some other means. But when that person drops out the whole structure of the firm disappears, because it is not on a viable management basis. These are real problems which should be tackled and which, I believe, could be tackled without wiping out the industries completely. It is also true to say that the consumer has to be considered. At the moment, in some of the areas we are talking about, the consumer is paying very heavily for the privilege of having Australians manufacture his goods. These are problems. But the point I really wish to make is that uncertainty is being generated by the activities of the IAC and the numerous reports which are issued and the fact that the reports on major employment industries, anyhow are rarely in line with the final decisions. 
The other matter which I should raise is the difficulty in which some industries find themselves in getting a reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority. I mentioned previously that 13 applications in a row were rejected. Most of the industries which sought assistance went out of business before the reports were made. I think of one particular instance, that of International Harvester Australia Ltd which put forward a reference earlier this year seeking emergency assistance. Six months later the report still had not been furnished because of objections from importers and others in the truck assembly area. A report was never provided. Now a full IAC report on commercial vehicles is in fact being undertaken again, the previous one having been prepared in or about 1974. Another matter I raise briefly concerns the different criteria used in different industries. A garment manufacturer cannot use the argument that he can supply the garments which are being imported but a material manufacturer can. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Is the Treasurer aware that income tax concessions for the care of handicapped persons are allowed when the persons involved are over 16 years and in receipt of a Commonwealth pension? Is he also aware that the level of the Commonwealth pension is such as to debar any claims being made in respect of such a handicapped person? In view of the conditions laid down for claims, under what circumstances can a person claim as a tax deduction the expenses incurred in the care of a handicapped person? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
Were the same criteria applied to the entry into Australia of Vietnamese refugees as are being applied to the entry of people from Lebanon. 
Are families, who are seeking to have relatives at present in Lebanon enter Australia, being informed that they must meet normal entry criteria. 
I wish to raise a matter which is of some concern to me and which I would like the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  to look into. It relates to a practice of conducting a series of medical tests in shopping centres. In Victoria, an organisation called Heartbeat has been doing this in a number of places. Recently, such tests were set up in the Corio shopping village in my electorate. I understand that the owners of the village were informed that it was a free service. Apparently, to all intents and purposes it was quite free. People were encouraged to participate  m  a series of tests in regard to their physical fitness, blood and other things to ascertain their condition. The basic situation would appear to be that the organisation was promoting a series of health care clinics which it operates from rest homes and health farms set up in the Warburton area. I have details with me but the point I wish to make is that people were recruited off the concourse of a shopping centre, asked to go through a series of tests and told that the results would be utilised in research at an American university. They were quite clearly given to understand that it was a free service. They were asked to fill in certain documents relating to the tests, and one of the things they were asked for was their Medibank number. 
One of my constituents and members of that family refused to give their Medibank numbers and subsequently received bills from the diagnostic laboratories which had contracted to process blood tests on behalf of the organisation which was conducting the promotional exercise. These people were quite concerned that these bills had arrived. People were asked to go through a series of tests and complied because they thought that it would do no harm and would not cost them any money; but apparently it was to cost the Commonwealth Treasury money because the cost was being bulk billed against Medibank. The organisation that had contracted to do the blood tests was not informed that that was to be the case. The people who approached me and who went through the tests claimed that they had no prior knowledge that this cost was to be charged against health care and was a rip-off from Medibank. It would be a very lucrative operation to set up a clinic of any description in a shopping centre and to provide a free medical service to every person one could get to agree, including groups of school children and anyone else who was passing by, whether the service was needed or not. 
-I point out to the honourable gentleman that this occurred on 11 October 1976. I am not criticising Medibank, but there were people in his electorate or that of one of his colleagues who were abusing a situation. If he says that he supports that kind of thing, that is his business. 
-The honourable gentleman sometimes knows what he is talking about, but it is so rare that I cannot remember the last time it happened. What he is saying is that health care should not be provided to the Australian community because someone might cheat. He is saying that we should cut out all health care because someone might cheat. He should be quiet and behave like a member of the Australian Parliament. 
-The Opposition does not object to the amendments. They are a patchwork job on what is in fact an unsatisfactory total proposal which was drawn up last year as a gimmick and is now being brought into legislative effect in order to save a back-down and the implementation of a more satisfactory scheme. The Opposition does not believe that this is the best way to go about allocating funds. The Government has indicated that this is a policy matter and is bringing it in. The Opposition believes that the Government will find it necessary to make substantial changes to this type of proposal in the very near future. However, the Government is entitled to a trial of what is a substantial financial measure. I do not believe that the proposal meets in any way the prior publicity and the promises which were made for this legislation. Certainly it goes nowhere towards meeting the requirements for a continuing growth tax for local government. It also does not meet what we would have thought was the most substantial requirement, that is, the topping-up type need for under-privileged local government areas. 
The other thing which the Opposition would indicate about this Bill is that we believe that in an effort to appear to be adopting a federalist approach the Government has introduced a system of multiple bureaucracies which in the long run will not be in the best interests of the financial management of these or other funds nor in the long run will it be in the financial interests of the people of Australia. 
-I wish to move the amendment which has been circulated in the name of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading until it has been redrafted following proper consultation with the State Governments and the Local Government Association of Australia concerning its objectionable features'. 
The Opposition moves this amendment because it believes that the present basis of this Bill does not meet the requirements of local government. The Bill does not go anywhere near meeting the financial needs that face local government bodies over the next 12 months or span of years. There is a serious problem which requires consultation. It is obvious that the leadership of the Government does not understand the problems of local government. I refer to the statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who is on record as saying that local government bodies should not increase their rates this year. That statement could be based only on a total lack of information. I know of at least one local government body which has taken a decision to try to comply with that request but which has found, having dealt with its estimates, that there is no way that it will be able to avoid increasing its rate this year in view of the grant which will be made available under this type of proposal. 
-The average rate increase will be between 10 per cent and IS per cent this year. It is a burden which low income earners in particular will not be able to adequately meet. I suggest that the Government accepts our proposal to enter into consultation with the Local Government Association. The Prime Minister should attend such talks so that he can become acquainted with the realities of the problem. I noted the interjection by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman).  I suggest that if he is prepared to support the statement that the Prime Minister made, that local government bodies are in a position to meet their revenue requirements without increasing their rates, he can go into his electorate and defend it. I believe it was a statement made in total ignorance of the realities of local government finances. It would do the Prime Minister and the Government good if they accepted this amendment and went and spoke to the people who have to meet those costs. Quite clearly a statement like that indicates that the Government has no understanding of those problems. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he been asked to undertake, or undertaken on his own initiative, a study into the cost of installing an electronic voting system in the House of Representatives. 
Can he provide the House with details of the costs of various forms of automatic voting systems. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. In view of his advocacy that the State governments should forgo payroll tax and also that workers compensation payments should cease in the case of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd, will the Prime Minister examine means by which his Government can pay portion of the amount which normally would be paid in unemployment benefit to persons laid off, in order to support employment of persons in that area and other areas similarly affected? 
It is always intriguing to listen to people who speak on the basis of self justification and who deny principle. 
Government supporters- Oh! 
-It is always a matter of levity to those people who would seek power quite unscrupulously, without conscience and without honour. One of the things which I think this House ought to understand is that the events of last November have destroyed and will continue to destroy until such time as they are resolved by proper process the hope of any confidence existing in any government other than that which controls the sources of power in the media in this country being allowed to govern. Firstly, the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  talked about defeating Supply. The Liberal and National Country Parties did not have the guts to bring it to a vote in the Senate. So let us get honest about this matter. They refused to deal with the legislation because they knew that they could not get the necessary votes of the senators to defeat Supply. But let us get down to the real nitty-gritty of the matter. 
-The parrots over yonder do not believe in democracy. If they want to see what they have done to it they should go to Queensland and look at the situation that exists there. While we are talking about this proposition, I think the House should be made fully aware that it was not the Senate that the people of Australia elected that was voting on this issue last year. 
-It was not the Senate that the people elected. It was a rigged Senate. 
Why do you not grow up? You are like a spoilt schoolboy. You have won office by a dishonest act and you want to protect yourself. 
-I said nothing about this in the  Herald  tonight. If you learned to read it might help your political career. 
-I think the honourable gentleman does not understand some things. Honesty is a thing that he does not seem to understand. I want to make a point and I will make it now. 
You just do not know how to talk. The point I want to make is this: The Senate that refused to consider Supply was not the Senate that was elected by the Australian people. There were 2 members of the Senate at that time who had been appointed by State parliamentsquite improperly- to replace 2 elected Australian Labor Party senators, one of whom had died. The Parties of honourable members opposite conspired to rig the Senate by stacking it with people who could not get elected and who could not get the votes of the Australian people and utilised the votes of those people who were dishonestly appointed by State governmentshonourable members opposite do not know much about honesty- in order to acquire the numbers to defeat an elected government. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I am reluctant to interrupt the honourable member for Corio because of the time factor, but I suggest that the debate may be assisted if interjections were to cease. 
-The facts of the matter are that the decision not to consider the Supply Bills was taken on a tied vote with a Queensland senator who had replaced a Labor senator not being present. Had that Labor senator been present the Bills would have come on for consideration. I think honourable members opposite ought to understand how this was done. It was done because of the fact that 2 Labor seats were taken away from the Labor Party by the machinations and, I think, the supreme ego of the then Premier of New South Wales and the machinations of the Queensland Parliament. The people elected a Senate of certain numbers. Honourable members opposite believe that is honest and decent for the people who are elected to be replaced by their friends. The fact that they have the Upper House of every State Parliament rigged in such a way that this cannot happen to them justifies the situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
When will work on the National Animal Health Laboratories be resumed? 
I ask the Prime  Minister.  Has he made any inquiries into the sources of detailed information available in the Sydney Stock Exchange on Thursday morning relating to the Government's decisions of the previous night on the future policies on uranium? 
-I do not think I can let pass some of the remarks of the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  He has spoken as if there is only one view in the Government parties on this matter of milk quotas he raised and that the only people proposing or supporting the removal of the milk quota zones were in the New South Wales Government. I can assure him that that is not so. I think that in the national Parliament we should be looking at that matter in the light of the reality of the situation. The present problems which are besetting the industry and the internal fighting which is taking place between those who have the milk quota and those who have not has been a fact of life for quite a number of years. 
I remember attending a very well supported meeting in Warrnambool several years ago at which the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the present  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  both dealt with this problem. It is a problem at the moment of the haves and the have-nots. The honourable member for Macarthur quite properly has defend the haves in his electorate. I am quite certain that there are other honourable members of this House whose electorates are further removed from the Sydney Milk Board region who would be proposing a quite different set of circumstances. If I may say so, the battle is joined very strongly in Victoria. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  would be more than well aware of it. 
The problem really is that there has been firstly, a decline in the available markets. I am not sure whether one could blame the French Government for its protective measures. Not very long ago that country was in diabolical economic straits. The fact that it has found a solution to its problem which is not to our advantage, is regrettable from our point of view but I am certain that it is not regrettable from the French point of view. I think that we are entitled to be looking after our own interests as we are seeking to do with the beef contracts. We are quite horrified that Japan and other countries would impose quotas on imports of Australian beef. But in my electorate, we would be quite horrified if we did not impose quotas on the importation of Japanese motor cars. So it is not all milk and honey. The problem is one of insufficient markets and the capacity to supply goods very efficiently- goods which at the moment cannot be sold at anything like a reasonable price. 
One of the factors which I think honourable members opposite might remember is that a number of years ago there were very strenuous efforts made by Ministers of a government of the same political colour as the present one. Indeed, I think that the responsible Minister at the time may well have been the present Leader of the National Country Party or the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair).  I think it was the Leader. Bitter debates took place between the then Bolte Government in Victoria and its Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Smith,  and the Federal Government about the expansion of dairy areas and the continued development of dairy farms in that State. Up until early this year the Victorian Government was, in fact advertising dairy farms for persons to settle. This was a case of providing properties which could efficiently produce dairy products. There was no question about that. But they were to produce products which could not be sold. 
At the same time in the same areas dairy properties were being handed over for the development of softwood forests. On the one hand, the State Government was developing, advertising and seeking people to go on to properties; on the other hand, people long established in the industry were going off properties in exactly the same area. To me, this is a very shortsighted policy. It is a policy which was epitomised by the former Premier of Victoria who said at the time of this argument: 'While we can put people on to properties who can produce efficiently, we will put them on the properties and the Federal Government can go jump in the lake'. I do not profess to have used the exact words of the Premier of Victoria, but they are the sort of words he would have used. Certainly, this is the meaning of what he had to say. I might not be able to say here what he actually said. 
The problems of the dairy industry are problems which exist in almost every Australian industry which is dependent on export markets and access to those export markets. Australia in the 1960s moved to a position very close to free trade in many areas. Other countries at the same time moved away from that position. The tariff walls and the import barriers- there were some very successful barriers which were not claimed to be either- have been built into the system to the extent that large sections of industry, and primary industry is amongst the hardest hit, are not able to sell their product in the quantities which they can produce efficiently, more efficiency than those countries which are excluding the products. This is a general breakdown and I do not believe the problems can be solved by highlighting the internal differences within Australia on the question of access to markets. I also have a milk area in my electorate. The argument at this stage obviously is not as heated in Victoria as it is in New South Wales because the Victorian Government has not moved into that area, but the pressure in Victoria is very great and we could move into this problem area in the not too distant future. Hopefully we will not Hopefully the problem can be solved by finding adequate markets for those people who are able to produce efficiently and if it can be done by finding alternate usages for land for those who cannot so produce. However, it is not easy. Generally the problems in this area are problems which need solution not by removing someone else's markets and destroying the total industry but by concentrating the industry in those areas where it is possible for people to make a living quite properly from that which they do most efficiently. 
-Every honourable member in the House will be aware that the employment and development opportunities and the general welfare of regional centres are largely dependent on a few of the most vulnerable manufacturing industries and the general wellbeing of the national economy. Regional centres are usually the first to suffer in any situation where there is a recession in consumer demand and where economic conditions are less than what we desire. The present Government came to office on guarantees that it would protect the interests of people in regional areas. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  who is at the table came to this Parliament as a result of undertakings of that nature. The Government has so far moved substantially in the opposite direction. A considerable number of its policies are in fact adding to the burdens and problems of regional centres rather than detracting from them. 
Most honourable members will be concerned at the reports provided by one of Australia's leading industrialists to the Government's economic policy committee, namely, that if the policies at present being pursued by the Government are continued the unemployed section of the workforce could amount to 600 000 people by 1978. I think it is also important to note that a substantially higher proportion of those persons seeking employment, especially young people, are to be found in regional and non-metropolitan areas. I think the House has to take note of the fact that there is evidence that the Government is ignoring the real economic trend signs which are available to it Most honourable members will be aware that prior to the recession of 1974 one of the major indicators of problems ahead- an indicator, incidentally, which the Department of the Treasury ignored- was the buildup of stocks in retail establishments. People who have taken the trouble to look will be aware that, for instance, the Myer Emporium Ltd reported a 30 per cent rise in stock holdings for 1975-76. The stocks of G. J. Coles and Co. Ltd rose by 2 1 per cent, of David Jones Pty Ltd by 20 per cent, of Waltons Stores Ltd by 23 per cent and of Norman Ross Pty Ltd by 22 per cent. These are significant rises in stock buildups, They do not augur well for an improvement in the economic conditions. They indicate consumer resistance. 
The non-metropolitan and regional areas are very much more dependent on consumer demand and movement of goods than are the capital cities where many of the low fluctuation industries and most of the Government employment exists. When this Government came to office one of its first acts was to cancel proposals to transfer to regional areas segments of the Australian Public Service departments and other statutory bodies. This cancellation took away from some centres, including the one I represent, an opportunity for the provision of white collar employment which is so desperately needed in those areas in order to employ young people who are coming on to the labour market and who are unable to find jobs in normal industrial or business activities. The low level of opportunity is well known to every one of us. The Government has taken other decisions. Today we heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  supporting on purely political grounds one of those decisions affecting non-metropolitan areas. A decision has been made in relation to the shipbuilding industry in Newcastle and Whyalla, particularly Whyalla. The Government so far has announced no proposals which would indicate that it will give any real assistance to that area, yet it is a non-metropolitan area which is almost totally dependent for employment on the continuation of the shipbuilding industry. That area will have to be abandoned. 
The Government has proposed a scheme to finance in a limited way the relocation of persons who move from one area to another to seek employment. Last week the Minister for environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman),  who is at the table, announced certain proposals relating to Fraser Island, proposals which were supported by the Opposition. However, proposals to compensate those people who lose their jobs as a result of that decision are non-existent. The Government has repudiated those people. The Prime Minister was asked a question about compensation, and not once in his reply did he mention those people who would lose their employment as a result of the decision. The decision was made in the national interest, but its burden will be carried by one town and a small number of people. The Government is not interested in people. The Prime Minister's answer clearly indicated that he does not consider that the employees, who will be the worst affected in the long term, are worthy even of consideration when compensation is spoken about. 
The Australian Industries Development Association annual report, which was released on Monday, indicates just how difficult the problems of regional centres are going to be. Manufacturing industry is the basis for most of the existing employment in those areas. The textile, shoe and motor car industries and a number of other associated manufacturing industries are the most vulnerable. In its report AIDA made this statement: 
The issue we raise this year is the dismantling of manufacturing industry which has been taking place over recent years and which is now gaining an alarming momentum. 
No one disputes that the problem is not new. What must be pointed out is that it is gaining momentum; it is not slowing down. At the current rate, manufacturing industry will substantially disappear in a very short period of time unless some action can be taken to reduce the alarming momentum which is referred to in the report. 
There is another area of which the Government ought to be taking note. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  judging by his answers to questions in this House, seems to ignore all indicators and seeks to project an air that nothing is wrong and that no person is entitled to point out that there might be some mistakes in Government policy. He himself during his period in Opposition did everything possible to talk down the economysomething he now accuses every critic of seeking to do. In a comment in the  Age  the following statement appears in relation to investment, something on which the Government seems to place great value: 
The expectation of a December Commonwealth loan has discouraged investors until they see what the new interest rate will be. 
People are scared of the market- its fluctuations have caused uncertainty among investors who cannot see any improvement in it in the near future' . . . 
Those are problems which affect the whole of the country, but they affect the non-metropolitan areas to a far greater extent than they affect the metropolitan areas. 
I want to make one other point. Today at question time the Prime Minister answered a question about the Newport power station. He justified not placing that power station in the Latrobe Valley of Victoria, where there are adequate supplies of brown coal- a natural fuel. If placed in that area, the power station would provide employment in a declining employment opportunity area. However, the Prime Minister's justification for not doing so was that this would break the grip of certain trade unions in the area on the power supplies of the State. I do not know how naive people can get. It must be assumed that the Prime Minister does not know that the people who will work in the power station at Newport will be members of the Electrical Trades Union, just as the people who work at other power stations are members of that Union. 
-I was there when the Prime Minister made the statement; the honourable member was not. The Prime Minister made the statement in the presence of the directors of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd at Geelong, and I was sitting 2 seats away from him. I think the honourable member ought to remain silent. The Prime Minister's justification for siting the power station at Newport is to achieve a political objective and not an industrial or environmental objective. He is seeking to use a declining and valuable resource, in natural gas, for that station in order to arrive at an environmental decision. Since the environmental impact study was conducted it has been disclosed that the power station will be changed over to other forms of fuel if natural gas becomes in short supply, and that it will be a continuing rather than a peak load station. So there are changed conditions. 
But that is not the point I wish to make at the moment. That is another argument. The Prime Munster is arguing that the power station should not be placed in an area where employment opportunities are needed and where many of the problems in recent years- I say this for theenefit of those people who care to understandhave been caused by declining employment opportunities and threats to people's homes and way of life. In many cases, in order to remain in the Latrobe Valley, people have had to accept reductions in status which have amounted to up to 25 per cent of their salary ranges, purely to retain employment in the area. If there is unrest, it is because there is no long term planning and because no consideration has been given to the future long term requirements of the people who live in these areas. For a base political reason, the Prime Minister would seek to deny those people some opportunity to extend their employment potential. 
Recently a number of alterations have been made to tariffs and to some of the proposals for the management of the economy. Some of those alterations in fact have assisted, and I do not demur to that. One decision which could have very serious consequences in the long term was the decision to move away from the proposition relating to car plans, whereby the Toyota and Nissan companies will be allowed to enter Australia as separate entities instead of on the basis of participating in a consortium. This will have the effect of placing very severe pressure on the existing manufacturers in Australia and almost certainly will result, in the long term, in at least one or two of those manufacturers going out of business. I think that is a major departure which will have very serious consequences. I hope that the consequences do not occur in a regional area, but I fear that that could be so because one of the three existing manufacturers must go. One of those manufacturers is in Geelong and the other two are in Adelaide and Dandenong. 
The Government is not showing any concern at all for the specific and special problems of those people who seek to live outside the capital cities. It is prepared to pay $ 1 ,900 to enable them to go to the cities. In Maryborough, where as an act of national policy their job opportunities are to be removed, the Government will give them that amount and little more. In other areas all the encouragement is for people to leave the country centres. The direction given to the Commonwealth Employment Service is to move people out of the country areas and into the capital cities in order to find employment. The general thrust of the Government s economic policy is to ignore the real problems which exist outside the metropolitan areas in the regional centres, where there are no alternative employment opportunities, and to press on with a restrictive economic policy which will end in disaster unless the Government does something about it and does it very quickly. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister terminated arrangements for the supply of uniforms to employees of his Department, by the Australian Government Clothing Factory. 
If so, will this cancellation result in uniforms not being provided to employees, in accordance with their terms of employment, during 1976. 
Are negotiations being made for the supply of uniforms by a private manufacturer. 
If so, is Australian-made cloth specified in the contracts. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, before you call the next order of the day- I shall delay the House for a couple of seconds- I point out that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  brought in a very important piece of legislation a few minutes ago. I am informed that copies of the second reading speech are not available to honourable members in the House. The House will go into recess for several days under a motion which has already been carried. 
That means that honourable members will not have copies of that second reading speech available for some days. I draw the attention of the House to this matter. I think that where legislation of considerable significance comes into the House, honourable members should have copies of the second reading speech available at the time of delivery. 
-The White Paper presented by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  on 4 November sets out - 
-It is a day of the month, if the honourable member did not understand. The White Paper sets out in fairly great detail the general philosophy of the Minister and, I presume, the Government in regard to defence matters. The Paper contains a number of matters that I believe the Minister or the Government ought to explain to the House. I also believe that the White Paper makes presumptions in some areas, which are just that- presumptions- and could well have some examination from a defence point of view as opposed to other points of view. 
-I do not know whether we need to have clowns in the House. But if the honourable gentleman wishes to proceed in that way on a serious subject and continues to treat it so jovially that is his business. The White Paper firstly mentions new equipment. I do not think that anyone would question that the defence forces need new equipment. I do not think that anyone would question that levels of equipment far higher than the Minister has outlined are desirable. I do not think that anyone will suggest that those levels of equipment can in fact be obtained because there are balancing factors in any area of activity. What we would like must be balanced against what we can have. In this case obviously the defence forces cannot have what they would like; they can have what the Government can at any given time afford. 
This brings me to the first point that I want to make in respect of the White Paper, and that is what the Government can afford. The Minister and the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland),  who was the last  speaker  from the other side of the House, have both indicated an amount of money which is to be expended in meeting the requirements of the White Paper on defence. I think the amount is $12 billion. It works out at about $250 per head of population per annum; that is, about $5 a week per taxpayer. 
In presenting a program such as this and remembering that continuing suggestions are coming from the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the tax burden will be in fact reduced and not increased, I think some explanation of the financial background to the defence White Paper should be made to the House. I do not accept that that is the responsibility of the Minister for Defence.  His  responsibility is to put forward the Government 's program on defence. I think the Treasurer should come into the House and inform us what the forward expenditure means in budgetary terms. It is fairly evident that if this expenditure is to be met with a reduced or a consistent tax base, other substantial cuts in expenditure will be required in order to fund the major section of the program. After all, funding is what it is all about in the long run. What you buy you must pay for. 
The second thing I question is the way in which the report skates over two of the basic requirements of defence. One must remember that when a defence force is required no additional planning can be undertaken. The first proposition which I think ought to be discussed and examined fairly deeply by the Department of Defence is the capacity of Australian industry and technology- this is mentioned in the White Paper but not in any depth- to meet war time emergency requirements of maintaining a defence force. In recent years there has been a gradual decline in design capacity in almost all sections of Australian industry. 
-The matter is serious. The honourable member obviously feels it is a joke. There is a very serious decline in the capacity for design in Australian industry. Scientific backup is declining and major industries in Australia are fast degenerating into production line operations. In a defence situation first class design capacity, especially at an industrial level, is absolutely essential. 
The Australian defence aircraft industry has for a number of years been limping from one crisis to another. There has been talk of rationalisation, amalgamation and various other programs over a considerable period. I remember having discussions on this matter when the honourable member for Curtin was a Minister. I remember discussions taking place under both governments at various times. It seems that the major defence aircraft industries are prepared to talk about amalgamation when they do not have orders and when they need something to prop them up. They become very disinterested immediately they have some work to do. The long term future of the industry very much depends on that problem being resolved and some guarantee of continuity of participation in the provision of our military aircraft in the future from Australian sources. 
At the moment part of the industry is being maintained by making windows for aircraft and by making small sections of aircraft. We have at the moment a very high degree of skill within portion of that industry as a residue from the manufacture of highly sophisticated fighter aircraft which have only in recent years ceased to be produced from our aircraft factories. They are skills which would be vital in any defence emergency to this country. They are skills which require maintenance and continual renewal. The skills are already in existence, if the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates),  who has been seeking to interject, wants to know. The skills will decline very rapidly if they are not used in the manner for which they were developed; that is to produce and work on sophisticated military aircraft. 
The Nomad project is keeping part of our aircraft industry alive. It is not a highly sophisticated military aircraft. The skills required m that area of production are quite different from those which would be required in a defence emergency. I think it is proper to put before the House, when considering a defence White Paper, the absolutely essential proposition that no amount of armed forces, no amount of equipment and no amount of military skills can maintain a defence force in the field unless it is supported by highly skilled persons able to quickly produce, maintain and repair military equipment of the most sophisticated type. I think it is also important that we should understand that not only in the aircraft industry generally but also in the electronics industry Australian design and development skills are rapidly disappearing. It is no longer economic for the electronics industry to design and produce primary goods of Australian origin. Imported design is cheaper and more economic. I think it is fair to say that what was a very substantial industry- it was one of the world leaders -is in decline within Australia. In a defence situation the electronics industry would be crucial. I think it is important that surveys be undertaken of our capacity to meet needs which may occur. 
The Minister sets out what he sees are the possible needs. We may agree or disagree on them, but defence is about a lot more than just soldiers in the field. A soldier in the field needs supplies. I think those of us who have taken the trouble to read about some of the last days of the Second World War will be aware of the tremendous damage which was done to the German forces because of an incapacity to supply themselves. 
The defence White Paper envisages the purchase of a considerable amount of new equipment. A great deal of that equipment is to be purchased and designed outside Australia. I hope that when an aircraft is chosen similar arrangements will be made to those which were entered into relating to the Mirage. The Mirage was built under licence in Australia. This maintained Australian skills and an aircraft was produced which was admirably suited to Australian conditions and which was capable of being modified by highly trained Australian craftsmen. The planes were delivered on time and in general had a better reputation as aircraft than those which were built m France, the country of their origin. Prior to that, the Sabre and the Canberra were substantially produced in Australia as military aircraft. Those skills are fairly deep-seated, but would be very quickly lost. 
I make one other comment in this area. One of the unfortunate things about production of defence equipment relates to guided missiles. Australia has produced a number of military missiles. To date, despite substantial sales, there has been little benefit commercially to the industry because orders for production have been stilted. I think that the Treasury is most likely to blame for that and not the Department of Defence. For instance, 420 to 4S0 Jindivik units have been produced, but there has never been a production run of more than 12 units at any given time. The Nomad aircraft project is suffering a similar Treasury domination. We are not able to produce the aircraft with a sufficient material flow in order to gain the benefits of mass production or semi-mass production. In fact, the orders are not bad but they would be far better if we could produce the aircraft to sell rather than sell the aircraft to produce. Unfortunately, that is a non-commercial operation which is being forced on that industry. 
The Opposition would hope that defence could be an area in which a proper and rational approach from both sides of the Parliament could be achieved. I believe that I have spoken about an area in relation to which serious thought has to be given. It is usual in defence debates for people to talk about soldiers, airmen or military equipment. If a defence emergency arises, the soldiers, sailors and airmen- the trained personnel who will be available- will perform as they are expected to perform. But they can perform only as well as the back-up services the country can provide to them will allow. I suggest that these back-up services are in decline. They are not as available as would be necessary in a defence emergency. I think that as a serious consideration the Minister for Defence and his department should be looking at the preparedness that Australian industry has to meet a defence requirement. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications the following question without notice on 7 October 1976: 
Were tenders by an Australian company for the supply of materials for Australian telephone books rejected? Were the contracts let to firms outside Australia? 

 -Mr Speaker, I second the motion. The gagging of this motion is from a frightened Government - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Corio be not further heard. 
. . . which wants the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)- 
... to make scurrilous untrue statements. 
-We have just listened to one of the rather regular epistles that we hear from the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney).  He hands them out to the Press; on some nights he does not get to make a speech. When one hears honourable members opposite talking about the manner in which Australian diplomats abroad are housed- this is the second time tonight that we have heard a similar attack- one wonders whether the present Government is intending to cut back or to cut out diplomatic representation in the countries that have been mentioned. It was a government of the same political colour as the present Government which established those embassies. One wonders also whether the trouble has been taken to consider what the alternative costs are. In at least one country in respect of which similar criticisms were made of our Embassy- I refer to Thailand which I visited last year; India is relevant in this respect also- Australia had set up an establishment as a result of which the whole of its diplomatic corps were housed in the one area. The French undertaking appears to be a similar project which, I would think, would be extraordinarily expensive in Paris, as it would be expensive in Melbourne or Sydney. Indeed, 12 months ago it would have been expensive in Canberra. 
When people make accusations of extravagance, I think they have the duty to put forward the alternative costs of housing Australian diplomats in what are major overseas posts of some importance to this country. If the Government does not believe that these overseas posts are of importance, I think it ought to say so and indicate that it is withdrawing sections or substantial sections of the numbers of people who are posted to these areas. This would include officers not only from the Department of Foreign Affairs but also officials from the Department of Overseas Trade and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs among other Australian officials posted overseas for the purpose of pursuing the interests of Australia in those countries. In Paris, Department of the Treasury officials would probably be involved also. It is cheap political gimmickry for an honourable member to stand up here and to talk about excesses in providing accommodation for Australians who are posted overseas if that honourable member is not prepared to say what the alternatives are and what the costs of those alternatives are. It is my opinion, although I have not had the opportunity to study the matter, that it would be far more expensive and be of less value to Australia in the shorter term not to spend the money for this purpose. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Lucock)Order!  It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 2. IS p.m. tomorrow. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Have contracts for the supply of rope for the Royal Australian Navy been transferred from Australian manufacturers to sources in Taiwan. 
If so, what is the saving to the Navy arising from this change in supply sources. 
Are cost factors, such as the cost to the Treasury of payments in unemployment benefits to employees and their families who lose employment because of the loss of these contracts by the Australian manufacturers, taken into account. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What is the cost to producers of additional freight charges caused by the Victorian Government's requirements that a fixed proportion of export grain be shipped through Portland instead of Geelong. 
-I give notice that, on general business Thursday No. 7,I shall move: 
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on: 
the conduct of elections for the Australian Parliament; 
b ) the role of the Australian Electoral Office; 
the extent to which political party organisations should be recognised and made accountable in electoral legislation; 
the funding of political parties and candidates; and 
the funding and recognition of political parties and laws relating to political parties in countries comparable to Australia. 
That the Committee consist of 10 members, five to be nominated by the Prime Minister and five to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition. 
That every nomination of a member of the Committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the Committee elect as Chairman of the Committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the Committee elect a  Deputy Chairman  who shall perform the duties of the  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee, and at any time when the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  are not present at a meeting of the Committee, the members present shall elect another member to perform the duties of the  Chairman  at that meeting. 
That the Committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, to appoint the  Chairman  of each sub-committee, and refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the Committee is empowered to examine. 
That 5 members of the Committee constitute a quorum of the Committee, and a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that sub-committee. 
That members of the Committee who are not members of a sub-committee may take part in the public proceedings of that sub-committee but shall not vote or move any motion or constitute a quorum. 
That the Committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
That the Committee have power to move from place to place. 
That any sub-committee have power to move from place to place, adjourn from time to time and to sit during any sittings or adjournment. 
That the Committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That in matters of procedure the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  presiding at the meeting have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, have a casting vote, and that, in other matters, the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  have a deliberative vote only. 
That the Committee be provided with necessary staff, facilities and resources. 
That the Committee in selecting particular matters for investigation take account of the investigations of other Parliamentary committees and avoid duplication. 
That the Committee report as soon as possible and that any member of the Committee have power to add a protest or dissent to the Committee 's report. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What contracts for the supply of materials and equipment to the Defence Services have been placed outside Australia during 1976. 
Are there any terms of supply in the tender conditions which would ensure that preference is given to Australian sources of supply. 
3 ) Which contracts let overseas were for goods previously supplied from Australian sources. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has there been any change in the method of allocating costs associated with the overseas travel of: 
The Prime Minister and 
Ministers since the present Government took office. 
I rise to speak in this debate to express concern at the future situation of employment not only on the waterfront but also in other areas. Regrettably, there is a tendency for certain occupations to become redundant or obsolete in areas of activity which were promising or which appeared to have a reasonable future. We are dealing specifically with the situation on the waterfront. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has referred to a substantial number of about 1200 men who are in excess of general demand on the waterfront. The stevedoring industry is one of a considerable number of industries in which the employment opportunities have declined. Fortunately, the stevedoring industry is one of those industries in which a fair degree of negotiation has been possible. It would appear for the first time that the employers of waterfront labour and the union are in fairly close harmony about the future development of the Australian waterfront. Certainly the union is not going to be satisfied with whatever redundancy agreements are reached although most likely it will come to some acceptable compromise. We would hope that that will be the situation and I understand the people concerned are working along that line. But that may not necessarily mean that the individuals concerned will be satisfied with that kind of agreement. It may well be a good agreement but monetary compensation may not be sufficient or in any way attractive enough to a person of 50 or 55 years of age who finds himself redundant and without skills to obtain another occupation. 
People look forward to retirement until they get close to it. When retirement comes, a considerable number of people do not actually want it all, no matter how attractive the retirement conditions are. It does not appear to attract a considerable number of people. In this regard I might mention High Court judges who can retire on very substantial emoluments to which they have not had to contribute but a few of them have stayed around until they were nearly 90 years of age. 
Quite seriously, the waterfront is only the tip of an iceberg. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  referred to industrial trouble and said he could not understand it. There are considerable areas of employment where the work opportunities and career opportunities of the people who have chosen to enter those fields are being substantially cut back. I could refer to the area in which I worked formerly as an engine driver. I think that about only half the number are now employed in this area in Victoria when compared with the number when I joined the service in 1949. Opportunities for progression in that area do not exist. Waterside workers are in almost the same position. The numbers employed are declining rapidly. A lot of the industrial problems in the electricity industry in Victoria today relate to a decline in opportunities. You,  Mr Speaker,  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations will remember that not that long ago the Victorian Premier was talking about the Latrobe Valley as the Ruhr of Victoria- an area of unlimited opportunities. 
-The honourable member for Swan does not understand. He should remain silent because he really does not want to make his ignorance public. Migrants took up residence in that area in good faith and I think everyone thought that opportunities did exist. However technological and other changes have made their future insecure and their positions redundant. People who reached supervisory positions in that area suddenly found themselves back on the floor. They had been looking forward to a life style of a certain standard and suddenly it disappeared. The area in which they live does not offer alternatives. Operations like the Lurgi gas plant and the briquette industry just disappeared from sight. 
Uncertainty- unrelieved uncertainty- creates problems, and those problems exist in a lot of industries at the moment. It would be of benefit if the Government looked at those uncertainties. I might make the point that a decision was made here a few days ago about mining operations on Fraser Island. It was decided that in the national interest mining there was to stop. The price for protecting the national interest will not be paid by the nation but by about 300 employees and a couple of companies. Those 300 employees have been left with nothing. If they became militant, if industrial unrest grew in that area, it would not be an unexpected reaction because they are being asked to meet the cost of something said to be in the national interest. 
I am concerned also about the port of Geelong, an area I represent. Permanency does not exist at that port. According to my understanding, about one-third of the work force would become redundant if permanency applied. If employment there were permanent a considerable reduction in the work force would be required- a number much greater than those who would be in the position of being able to face retirement easily, even with a golden handshake. A number of other provincial ports in Australia are in exactly the same situation or a worse situation. Work opportunities for people over 45 years of age, the people that one would expect would become redundant in that area as they are unskilled persons, are almost nonexistent. In major ports it may be possible to bring the employment figure down relatively easily over a fairly short period of years but in areas where alternative work opportunities do not exist in any form the work force would be reduced to those of 45 to 50 years of age and people above that age would be condemned to permanent unemployment. Transfer arrangements and other such provisions may meet the situation but it is not easy for people who have lived all their lives in one area to suddenly move to a capital city or into a lifestyle they are not used to for the last 10 years of their lives. 
This is a serious problem and I hope some resolution can be found for it. A number of things could be done to assist. One is an examination of the plans that the Melbourne Harbour Trust has for the development ofthe port of Melbourne. I think it is going to move to the inner suburbs and turn the whole area into a port. I am not sure that that is the sort of port development which should be encouraged when already there are ports such as Westernport and Geelong which could better serve parts of Melbourne than a port in the central business district with all the traffic problems and other difficulties which would arise. 
I do not intend to delay the House much longer but I ask the Minister to look seriously at this area. I think that half of the people concerned are most likely his constituents anyway. According to official figures I think there is a surplus of about 70 men on the Geelong waterfront. 
I make this point: If the reduction of employees is of the order suggested that port would not be capable of handing any increase in its use such as does occur although only temporarily. The numbers would be too low to make it a viable general cargo port. I think it ought to be used as a general cargo port because its access to the western suburbs of Melbourne is far better than that from the port of Melbourne, not in miles but in the movement of goods. 
One could say a number of other things about the general aspects of this matter. I am not speaking about other States but in the metropolitan port areas of Victoria there is a need to look not only at the number of people working on the wharves but also at the utilisation of the ports themselves. I think there is a fairly uneconomic use of ports in Victoria and this may well be costing the community sums of money as large as or larger than the cost attributed to industrial unrest and other obvious areas of excess cost. I ask the Minister, in reviewing the general operations of the waterfront, to consider with his colleague the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  the effects of uneconomic utilisation of port facilities, especially in Victoria. In that State there are existing port facilities but there are plans to duplicate them in other areas and not fully utilise the existing facilities. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Will he have undertaken an advertising campaign to warn the public of the requirement for a licence to operate a transceiver in the citizens band. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Are there any restrictions in force in relation to the importation and sale of transceivers in the citizens band. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Under what circumstances are licences issued for the use of tranceivers in the citizens radio band. 
How many of these licences are current. 
-Has the Treasurer been officially informed that the required cuts in tariff to compensate for the recent devaluation are of the order of 80 per cent? Is the Treasurer aware of the serious consequences for woollen textile and carpet manufacturers of the Government's decision to implement the foreign currency price for wool on the Australian domestic market? 
I am concerned about 2 aspects of this legislation. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  made a rather strange speech. It is fairly common knowledge that one of the major aims and especially one of the major demands of the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission was the removal of the staff commissioner. Earlier this evening the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  made certain remarks about the lack of parallel with the Postal Commission and the Telecommunications Commission which have trade union representation. 
-The honourable member mentioned the secretary of one union by name. I am concerned about this remark because I feel that with the already dubious record of this Government in that area, this may foreshadow a move at some time in the future to have those members of those Commissions replaced. I would like an assurance from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on this matter because I believe that those staff members have been a valuable addition to those Commissions and have helped, not hindered, industrial relations, even if their appointment may have created difficulties. If we do not appoint people to commissions because their appointment may create difficulties concerning some conflict of interest, there are very few people indeed who could be appointed to anything. For instance, any person who is likely to use the banking system for any purpose could not be appointed to the Board of the Reserve Bank because there must be at some time a conflict of interest. I suggest that what is required is experience and competence to do the job. 
-The honourable member is neither experienced enough nor competent enough to judge. The fact of the matter is that to attack a particular commissioner, not because he may not be able to do the job, but because of his derivation, is quite improper. I think the judgment must be made on whether a person can do the job. The honourable member for Wimmera talks about whether a person receives 2 salaries. Those people who are farmers and are appointed to the Commission are paid a salary; those people who are businessmen who are appointed to the Commission are paid a salary. I see no reason why another person appointed to the Commission in similar circumstances should not be paid the same amount. You cannot make fish of one and fowl of the other. The Minister himself is paid a salary as a member of Parliament. He is also paid a salary as a Minister. That is a two-salary situation; one is derived from the other. 
I make one other point: The honourable member for Wimmera totally misrepresented the remarks of both the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  relating to the appointment of women to the Commission. The argument is not that women should not be appointed. Honourable members on the other side do not have a very good record in that regard but it is hoped that that will change. The argument is that women should be appointed on their merits and not purely because 2 positions must be filled by women. That is the argument. They should be eligible to be appointed to boards and commissions and they should not require the protection of having a maximum and minimum situation written into the legislation. I hope that the Minister will not bow to any pressure which may be exerted on him to interfere with what I think is a satisfactory relationship on the boards of the Postal and Telecommunication Commissions. I hope that when judgments are made on the relative merits of the commissioners of the ABC, that the merits of their performance and not their derivation is what is judged. 
-We are discussing 2 Bills, which are largely machinery measures to deal with events that took place some time ago, and a statement aimed at undoing most of what was done as a conscious act by the Government in relation to tariffs throughout the year. The major matter before the House, quite obviously, is the statement made last night by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  and the ramifications of that statement and the events which led up to it. Some things in the statement deserve more explanation, and I think the House ought to consider other areas. 
The decisions to devalue and to revalue obviously have consequences for manufacturing industry, which is the substantial recipient of tariff protection under the Industries Assistance Commission. Those decisions obviously confused the situation and they could have very serious long term effects on the Australian economy. Unfortunately the statement by the Minister does not clear up all that many of the effects on manufacturing industry. Certainly, in the short term, superficially at least, industry will benefit by an addition to the protection. I understand that in technical terms the Government's decision will bring the levels of protection back to approximately those which existed in about 1970. That may be true of some industries but not of others. 
One of the things I would like to hear the Minister explain is the change in the tariff for the passenger motor vehicle industry. As I understand the statement, the additional 10 per cent protection, which was introduced as a result of a Temporary Assistance Authority report some time ago and confirmed as a permanent feature by the Government, is now being removed, but in fact the Government is retaining the quota levels of 80 per cent or will operate the quotas if imports exceed 80 per cent. The statement of the Minister appears contradictory, but I think that what I have said is most likely the effect of that decision. I draw attention to the fact that there is a considerable number of cars in bond in Australia. Those cars will be at a considerable trading disadvantage when they are released, because of the change in the tariff arrangements. The tariff on them will' not have been paid. I wonder whether that fact has been taken into consideration. In the short term at least there will be some advantage to certain importers who brought their full quotas of vehicles into the country- the number of these vehicles may not be as high as it was- in order to beat the emission controls. When those controls were to be introduced there was a substantial influx of vehicles and these were held in bond for sale after the date of the introduction of emission controls. 
Another area where obviously the Government is not taking any action but in fact is removing certain things is that covering the British preferential tariff. The British devaluation has in fact altered the relative position. As I understand it, the removal of the British protective tariff merely restores that country's position to what it was prior to Australian devaluation. I am concerned with that part of the Minister's statement which indicates that certain industries, namely, footwear, clothing, textiles, domestic applicances, files and rasps, fine papers, plywood and orange juice will retain the additional temporary assistance which they were given previously. I am not sure of what the actual effects of this will be. However, in all probability it will mean that there will be an equivalent increase in 
E rices to the consumer. In fact the Government as decided effectively to increase tariffs in that area beyond the level that the Temporary Assistance Authority had in fact recommended and which was adopted. 
One area that I would draw to the attention of the Minister encompasses the wool textile industry and carpet manufacturing industry which have both been disadvantaged in a manner that, as I understand it, has not occurred in other areas of the textile industry. The wool textile manufacturers did not gain the benefit of the tariff protection to the same extent as did other areas because of the change in the domestic price of wool which was immediately increased by 17Vi per cent by direction of the Minister. As a result the cost of this industry's major raw material increased forthwith. The industry thus lost a substantial proportion of the benefit of the temporary assistance it received plus the benefits created by the changed currency situation. 
The wool carpet industry is similarly affected in that it imports most of its raw material from overseas. A small quantity of carpet wool is grown in Australia but most of this material is imported. The cost of the industry's basic raw material has been increased by the devaluation decision. The industry has received no assistance comparable with that received by other sections of the textile industry or by its competitors which are making carpets from synthetics. Therefore, as the Minister would realise, the industry is already in considerable trouble. It is now placed in an adverse trading position compared with its Australian competitors which have not suffered the same price rise in respect of raw materials. The whole question of protection for manufacturing industry is one which I believe needs to be studied in far greater depth than is the case at the moment. 
The measures before the House seek to validate a series of Industries Assistance Commission reports that have been adopted by the Government and a statement which almost invalidates all of those reports because the Government has determined to take action unilaterally which alters totally the considerations on which those reports and the legislation we are validating were established. 
I am concerned about employment in Australian industry. I do not think that I have ever made any secret of the fact that I believe in levels of protection which are adequate to ensure that employment can be maintained and that Australian industry has a fair chance of operating, given that the conditions under which it operates are quite different from those existing for many of our trading competitors. I would challenge one statement made by the Minister; that is, that those industries which are aggrieved can seek assistance from the Temporary Assistance Authority. That is not a fact. Industries are able to seek assistance from the Temporary Assistance Authority only if their application to do so is agreed to by the Department of Industry and Commerce. That can be an extremely protracted and difficult proposition. The record of the IAC in this area is not good. I think that out of 13 applications that went before the IAC for temporary assistance last year 13 were rejected and a number of the industries concerned disappeared totally from the Australian scene. A number of applications have been made this year. 
In at least on case of which I am aware the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  indicated that an application should be made because the Goverment had decided to adopt the IAC's report on commercial vehicles. This major Australian manufacturer was told that it could make application to the Temporary Assistance Authority for additional protection if it thought that such action was necessary. The application was made in March. The application had not been completely processed by the department concerned as late as August. It was never agreed that the decision on the application would be forwarded to the manufacturer concerned. In fact the decision finally came out when a new IAC report on the industry was called for. 
I would suggest that temporary assistance, which by its very nature means urgent assistance, is not readily obtainable if an organisation has to wait for something Uke 8 months for a decision to be made on whether a reference to the Authority will be made in the first place. We also have to take into consideration the time factor required for the Authority to produce a report. It is reasonable that the Government should have some control over references. The legislation provides- and this requirement was insisted on by the present Government- that the Government cannot alter a recommendation on temporary assistance as opposed to a general report. But I would suggest to the Minister that an industry which is in trouble and which has to wait for 8 months to find out whether it will get a reference is hardly in a position to say that it is being dealt with fairly. Nor can we say that in such a case urgent assistance is obtainable. The Minister's statement appears to indicate that any industry that finds itself in trouble can in fact make an application. I would suggest that the position is something less than that. 
I want to make only one other comment in this debate. I refer to the general pattern of IAC reports and the general pattern of action arising from those reports. At the moment it appears that the Government's POliCY and the general conclusions of the IAC are at some variance. References to the IAC, interim reports and final reports of the IAC, which are no longer always published before decisions are made, and Government decisions are almost always at considerable variance with each other. This situation must create serious problems in decision making within industry. An industry may first of aU see an interim report which indicates, as it sees it, all sorts of disruption. The final report may lead that industry to draw somewhat similar conclusions. This is the norm. But then the Government's decision may be quite different from the IAC recommendation. Such a situation must create planning problems within industry. The decision making process is usually spread over a fairly long period. 
The textile industry has been dealt with fairly kindly in the Minister's statement. However, action taken by the Government may or may not save the industry because I do not think that a 17Vi per cent change in the currency rate will alter the competitive position of the industry in respect of imported goods. In fact I think that devaluation will make little difference to the margins on which importers operate, particularly in the case of the majority of cheaper textiles which are being sold over the counter. Devaluation will make a difference to the price that the public pays, but the margin between the Australian price and the price of imports in a number of areas is far greater than 20 per cent. In fact I think that a 100 per cent increase in the currency would be needed to make the industry competitive. Although such a situation would be completely unacceptable to the public, it is a consideration that obviously the Government and everyone else has to take into consideration. As I have pointed out, industry is faced with uncertainty over very long periods. The Government will have to keep this fact in mind if it is to encourage industry to implement more efficient processes. 
We hear almost repeatedly in this House and outside blame being placed on employees for the difficulties in which industries find themselves. We are told that employees have gained a greater level of wages than some people think they are entitled to. I think we should also look at the fact that a considerable amount of Australian industry is geared to make a living for the management or the shareholders, without any real attempt to create a viable industry with long term prospects. Quite a lot of our industries are inefficiently structured. Much of the middle management is at least as blameworthy as the employees, if the employees are at all blameworthy. I suggest that no long term planning in any industry can take place while the degree of uncertainty that exists is repeated each year. No government is blameworthy in this area because no one can make up his mind, really, where he wants to go. In the early part of this century governments were made and broken on protection issues. At the moment it is a little different but not much different. 
Certainly industry does not benefit by the IAC pursuing a policy which is diametrically opposed to that of the Government. The Government might have to lay down its policy requirements so they can be taken into consideration when the inquiries are taking place. At least the inquiry would be based on a situation in which the recommendations have some chance of acceptance by the Government. It seems unreal to me that we should have this situation with an organisation with the expertise and competence of the IAC. I do not deny the expertise and competence of members of the IAC. I disagree with most of their basic philosophies. There is no question of their competence and expertise in the field. If it is going through a substantial exercise of inquiring into an industry on a basis which it is known in advance the Government will not accept, this seems to me to be a complete waste of resources. It seems to me that somewhere along the line, if the Government's policy is different from the general philosophy being pursued by the IAC, there should be some way of bringing the two together. Useful reports, reports which are likely to be adopted, are far better than reports which are disruptive to the industry and which cause all sorts of disruptions and campaigns to be mounted. In the final result, the 
Government overrides them anyhow. This is becoming a pretty regular pattern. I suggest to the Minister that some coming together of the Government and the IAC on their aims would greatly benefit all Australian industry. I think the statement by the Minister does little to clarify the situation relating to the future tariff policies or the effects of devaluation but, in view of the confusion that reigns supreme not only in industry in the country at large but also in the Government, I think it is the best the Minister could have made. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Are the relative total costs of purchases of goods, for Government use, in (a) Australia and (b) overseas assessed by the Treasury. 
If so, are related costs taken into account, such as payment of unemployment benefits and loss of revenue to persons and businesses whose employment and business profitability are affected by orders placed outside Australia. 
If assessments are not made, how does the Government assess the actual cost of saving to revenue involved in acceptance of the lowest tender price. 
-As one of those who has had the opportunity of serving as  Speaker  in the House I pay tribute to Norman Parkes for the work that he has done and for the manner in which he has supervised the parliamentary Department of the House of Representatives. I do not suppose there are many who have to rely on the skill and advice of the clerk more than those who occupy the position of presiding officer. Most members of Parliament know a lot about the Standing Orders and the procedures of this Parliament and of others until actually put to the test by having to put those procedures into rulings or decisions. Then the amount that those concerned do not know becomes a volume. The advice that I, my predecessor and, I presume,  Speaker  Aston received enabled us to carry out the duties with which we were charged. It is important to any person in any office to be certain that their advice can be relied on. In many other ways- as  Clerk,  as an individual and as an officer of the Parliament-  Mr Parkes  has served this country extremely well. It is a frustrating job, in that the  Clerk  can advise but he cannot prevent the person to whom the advice is given from making mistakes. Mistakes will always be made. 
One other side of the Clerk's job on which I want to comment briefly is that in many instances members of Parliament take up with the  Clerk  grievances which properly should be taken up with the  Speaker.  If the  Speaker  makes a ruling from the chair, no matter what advice is given by the  Clerk-  and no one can know what advice is given- it is the Speaker's ruling and his responsibility. When honourable members take these grievances or supposed grievances up with the  Clerk  it adds to the pressure and I think it is unfair to the people who serve in that office. If a person accepts the role of  Speaker  in the House he should also accept the responsibility for his own decisions. I wish Norman Parkes and his wife well in their retirement. I hope that his experiences will not now be forgotten but that he will utilise those experiences in order to inform and to ensure that future generations have the benefit of what has been a very long and distinguished career of service to the Parliament and, as a servant of the Parliament, to the people of Australia. 
I move: 
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report on- 
the conduct of elections for the Australian Parliament; 
the role of the Australian Electoral Office; 
the extent to which political party organisations should be recognised and made accountable in electoral legislation; 
the funding of political parties and candidates, and 
the funding and recognition of political parties and laws relating to political parties in countries comparable to Australia. 
That the committee consist of ten members, five to be nominated by the Prime Minister and five to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition. 
That every nomination of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  Speaker. 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
That the committee elect a  Deputy Chairman  who shall perform the duties of the  Chairman  of the committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee, and at any time when the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  are not present at a meeting of the committee, the members present shall elect another member to perform the duties of the  Chairman  at that meeting. 
That the committee have power to appoint subcommittees consisting of three or more of its members, to appoint a Chairman of each sub-committee, and refer to any such sub-committee any matter which the committee is empowered to examine. 
That five members of the committee constitute a quorum of the committee, and a majority of the members of a sub-committee constitute a quorum of that subcommittee. 
That members of the committee who are not members of a sub-committee may take part in the public proceedings of that sub-committee but shall not vote or move any motion or constitute a quorum. 
That the committee or any sub-committee have power to send for persons, papers and records. 
10) That the committee have power to move from place to place. 
That any sub-committee have power to move from place to place, adjourn from time to time and to sit during any sittings or adjournment. 
12) That the committee or any sub-committee have power to authorise publication of any evidence given before it and any document presented to it. 
That in matters of procedure the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  presiding at the meeting have a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of voting, have a casting vote, and that, in other matters, the  Chairman  or  Deputy Chairman  have a deliberative vote only. 
14) That the committee be provided with necessary staff, facilities and  resources. 
That the committee in selecting particular matters for investigation take account of the investigations of other Parliamentary committees and avoid duplication. 
That the committee report as soon as possible and that any member of the committee have power to add a protest or dissent to the committee 's report. 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the standing orders.  (Notice given 1 December). 
The proposal I have put forward is for the establishment of a select committee to inquire into electoral matters. The proposal does not envisage such matters as redistribution and the major matters covered by other electoral legislation, but it envisages a general approach to elections, the conduct of elections, the role and organisation of the Commonwealth Electoral Office, the relationships of political parties to the Electoral Act, and also an examination of the role, recognition and responsibilities of political parties within the electoral laws of other countries with comparable parliamentary systems to our own. Every member of this House and most people who have had experience with elections will be aware of quite a number of unsatisfactory aspects of our electoral laws. Quite a lot of them are archaic and could well be amended. There would be unanimity within the House for such amendments. 
Unfortunately, governments from both sides of the House have pursued alterations to the manner in which we conduct our elections. The structure of the Commonwealth Electoral Act has been the personal property of the government of the day. In fact, it is most likely fair to say that the Electoral Act ought to be prepared by people who do not have a vested interest in protecting their positions. Politicians would be about the last people to make an objective judgment on the Commonwealth Electoral Act or on the manner in which they confronted the electors. Be that as it may, it is not likely that any government will accept that proposition. I think it is not unreasonable that the Electoral Act should be subjected to continual scrutiny and recommendation by members of Parliament and that they should seek to acquire general agreement on where the Act could be updated and alterations made to improve and, wherever possible, simplify our electoral procedures. 
I should like to make one or two remarks concerning areas in which I think the whole House would agree alteration should be made but in which we have never actually got around to making alterations. The procedures for applying for postal votes are extremely complicated, even though they are meant to apply to people who are sick or aged and to large numbers of people who only once in their life are going to tackle filling in those forms. There would appear to be no justification whatsoever for not adopting a more simplified procedure and, certainly, a more simplified form on which people can apply for a postal vote and return their postal vote for counting. 
The placing of names on the ballot paper historically has been almost a case of people with surnames beginning with the letter 'A' or 'B' not wanting a change to the system but people with surnames beginning with the letter 'S or 'V wanting change. I take advantage of the name of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is sitting at the table. Most likely, both he and I could have lost our seats in recent years because of the alphabet. 
-I did not know that the seat of Port Adelaide was one in which the Electoral Act would be of much importance. I thought the honourable member who holds that seat would have a majority of about 12 000 votes. It would seem to me to be a fairer proposition- there is no fair propostion, even though we have heard about round ballot papers and the like- if people were required to draw for their positions on the ballot papers. At least then everyone would have a chance of getting a high position on the ballot paper, which is desirable in a tight election and in a marginal seat. 
Any honourable member who is interested ought to ask the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  for copies of all the forms which normally are used in the Australian Electoral Office. I think something like forty or fifty of them are used to put people's names on the electoral roll. There are 3 different forms to challenge people's rights to have their names on the roll. These should be able to be modified to a considerable extent. Similarly, there is the issue of the 'How to Vote' cards. This seems to me to be one of the great wastes of money- it creates a tremendous amount of litter- to provide guidance in a system which we believe is too complicated for the general public to understand. It is not unreasonable that each candidate should be able to put forward his order of preferences to the Electoral Office within a reasonable period of the close of nominations and that that order of preferences should be included in the Act and listed in every polling booth so that when people go into the polling booths they have before them the order of preferences desired by each candidate. 
That brings me to the third problem, which is the recognition in the Electoral Act of political parties. A lot of guff is spoken about the incorporation of political parties, etc. It is an accepted fact that there are political parties. It is accepted  de facto  in Senate elections where groupings are used. It should not be beyond the wit of this Parliament to devise reasonable proceduresproposals have been put before the Parliament in recent years- whereby the names of political parties and the association of candidates to those parties can be recognised at least to the extent that the names can be utilised in an electoral office. It is a strange thing that, whilst we do not recognise that a candidate is a candidate for a particular political party, we require the political party to provide returns on expenditure and other matters in relation to election campaigns. So apparently we recognise political parties but we pretend that we do not. They are things which I think are worthy of examination by members of this House and, wherever possible, unanimity should be sought. 
On the matter of the closing times of polling booths, in one or two States now the closing time is 6 o'clock but in the Commonwealth it is 8 o'clock. There seems to be no real reason why some agreement could not be reached on that particular point. These issues relating to the Electoral Act are not terribly important but in total there are quite a number of them. I believe it is proper that the Parliament as a whole should deal with these issues and make recommendations. 
The motion which is before us envisages dealing with the matter only as it affects the House of Representatives. I should think that senators would want to examine their own electoral laws as far as the election of senators is concerned. I hope that they will do so fairly quickly because the level of informal votes which is taking place in Senate elections is destroying any claim that the Senate is a representative House. The level of informal votes is running at something like 10 per cent. That is far too high and indicates not that people are not capable of or do not want to vote, but that the system is too complicated and therefore is denying people their right to vote. 
I should like to talk about one or two other matters but we have only 12 minutes left for this debate and I should like to leave some time for the seconder to this motion. However, I make the point that in future the problems involved in conducting election campaigns in Australia are going to grow. People are going to demand results far more quickly than they are able to get them now. In the last general election, if I may make the point, it took just on 3 weeks to settle the final seat in the House of Representativesmy seat. If the election result had been close we would not have known who was going to govern the country until that period had elapsed. In a situation of, say, economic or another form of crisis, that would make the position of government impossible. It would place the nation in a rudderless situation. 
It should be possible for us to get beyond the horse and buggy stage whereby 10 or 12 days after an election people are not able to say even how many votes there are still to be counted, let alone when they are likely to arrive. In fact, as late as the day of the distribution of preferences in the last general election, 20-odd votes turned up. I know that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs found a very important bundle of votes which apparently no one knew existed. These are areas in which the electoral procedures should be cleaned up and should be cleaned up fairly quickly. I do not suggest that there has been any improper practice, but the Electoral Act needs careful examination and it should be examined by people on the basis of trying to seek agreement on what can and should be done to improve our electoral system. 
The other matter, which is going to be one of the big issues in the future, is that of financing election campaigns. If we do not do something about this matter in the future- and it is not a popular subject- we will reach the situation which, I believe, obtains in some countries already, in which the members of the Parliament are agents of those who finance election campaigns rather than representatives of the people who elect them. That would be an undesirable situation. Elections cannot be conducted without money. It will be necessary to look at means by which the amounts of money required to be spent can be reduced. Some of the surplus activity that takes place could well be done away with. I commend the motion to the House. I believe that it proposes a means by which we can seek to have unanimity and agreement on those changes which are necessary or those which we feel are desirable. In controversial matters, or matters on which agreement cannot be reached, obviously the Government has the numbers to enforce its will, but, wherever possible, I believe that an agreement should be reached on electoral matters. 
I suggest that if the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  will give an undertaking that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
Has Zora Fashions of Geelong and Melbourne been refused permission to import (a) lining materials and (b) stretch courtelle for use in the manufacture of fashion goods. 
If so, was the reason given for these refusals that supplies of these or similar materials are available from Australian sources. 
Are imports of fashion goods containing the same or similar materials permitted without regard for the ability of Australian sources to supply them. 
If so, does this policy seriously disadvantage the Australian manufacturers. 
Will he indicate why differing criteria apply to the suppliers of material and the product of the manufacturer. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What levels of tariff duty are levied on the special diabetic products, (a) jam, (b) confectionery, (c) jellies and (d) biscuits. 
Are differential rates charged based on the source of supply. 
What is the level of Australian manufacture of these products. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many persons have discontinued uncompleted courses under the NEAT Scheme since the reduction in allowances payable to trainees under the scheme. 
What was the total expenditure by the Commonwealth for the training provided in respect of those uncompleted courses. 
What was the estimated cost of completing those courses under the terms originally authorised. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What is the annual cost of vandalism to public telephones in each Telecom District in (a) Melbourne and ( b) Sydney. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Government have any information, prior to the overthrow of parliamentary rule in Thailand, that a coup was likely. 
If so, did the information implicate United States agencies in the organisation of the coup. 
Ishis Department required to report on the likelihood of such developments. 
Did the Government receive any information on a proposed overthrow of the elected Government from the United States Government or its agents. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons who occupied First Division positions in the Australian Public Service on 1 1 November 197S are still occupying First Division positions. 
) How many have retired since that date. 
How many have been transferred to other Government positions, and what is the classification in each case. 
What was the total number of First Division public servants as at (a) 1 1 November 197S and (b) 1 1 November 1976. 

 -Mr Speaker, I ask you to take into consideration an article which appears in tonight's Sydney  Mirror  and which charges several members of this Parliament with fraudulently registering Canberra as their home base for the purpose of falsely claiming travelling and incidental allowances. My understanding is that the article is totally false. I ask you,  Mr Speaker,  as the protector of this House, to take the article into consideration. 

 -Mr Speaker, I want to raise a matter which I think is of some consequence and in which I am sure you will concur. There has been some publicity in relation to errors being made in the presentation of legislation. There was some debate on the role of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  in that but I do not intend to refer to it. The matter to which I wish to refer is the pressure under which the staff of the House of Representatives, and I presume the staff of the Senate, work and the general approach to that pressure of other sections of the Public Service, and notably, the Public Service Board. You will be aware,  Mr Speaker,  as I am, that for some time moves have been under way for a reorganisation of the staff of the House of Representatives and for a reclassification of positions. During the period I occupied the office which you now occupy,  Mr Speaker,  we had some considerable trouble with the Public Service Board which refused to advise the House of new arrangements to streamline the procedures in the House on the grounds that, as staff ceilings were involved, the Board did not consider it to be its responsibility to give such advice. 
The point I wish to make is that the House of Representatives conducts something like three times the amount of legislative business that is conducted by the House of Commons with something like one-quarter or less of the senior clerical staff employed there. That does not take into account considerable other senior staff. The Public Service Board refused to take into consideration the detail and the accuracy of the work which has to be undertaken by senior officers in this Parliament. In fact, at least one officer who I think ought to have been sacked for incompetence indicated that the general level of efficiency of around 70 per cent which was acceptable in the Public Service should be acceptable to the Parliament. It certainly is not acceptable. The level of efficiency which is expected and almost always obtained is 100 per cent. The point which I think ought to be made, and made most strongly, is that the Parliament is the poor relation of the Public Service. We read in the Press today, for instance, the ease with which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  expands the policy areas of his Department. A similar situation exists in other departments. Irrespective of which party is in government, Ministers are able with relative ease to expand the senior staff in their policy making and administrative areas. 
The number of staff in the Parliament is almost rigidly fixed. During a particular period, especially the period towards the end of a session, the senior officers of the Parliament have to spend the majority of their time in the House. They are under considerable pressure from Ministers who want Bills ready to be presented for royal assent an hour before they are passed through the Parliament and certainly not later than 3 minutes after coming back from the Senate. There are only 4 senior officers, Second Division or higher, in the Parliament to carry out those duties. I know that currently a private survey of efficiency within the Parliament is being conducted because the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, on receiving a report sometime last year, refused to pass on that report in the manner in which he received it. Without having actually participated in the considerations, he decided that no increase in staff should take place and that no recommendation to upgrade the staff ought to be accepted. I believe it is time that the Parliament looked at its own position and made sure that it is adequately staffed with senior officers who can carry out the functions which the Government of the day and the members of the Parliament demand of them. I know that the recently retired  Clerk  had to forgo many months of accumulated leave because the pressure of work in the Parliament would not allow him to take that leave. That is a totally wrong principle which no employer should apply to its employees. It damages the employees' health and must at some stage affect their efficiency. I believe that the approach which has been taken in this matter, especially by the Public Service Board, is quite irresponsible. I hope that you,  Mr Speaker,  will be able to resolve it satisfactorily in the near future. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the purpose of the two letter receivers placed in front of Parliament House. 
Are postal services available, including letter receivers, inside Parliament House at all times when the House is open, and only a short distance away. 
If the letter receivers are essential, will he examine whether a more suitable type of receptacle can be used. 
Does the placing of these letter receivers in the parliamentary zone comply with the provisions of the Parliament Act. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What was the value of equipment, etc., purchased from sources outside Australia by the (a) Australian Telecommunications Commission, (b) Australian Postal Commission and (c) Australian Broadcasting Commission during 1975-76. 
2 ) What percentage of total purchases does this represent in each case. 
What percentage of these purchases could be supplied from Australian sources. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the price of orders for rope products placed overseas for Navy supplies be increased as a result of devaluation. 
If so, will this increase mean that the 41 contracts taken away from Australian manufacturers will now be priced above the rejected Australian supply price. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact, as reported, that the Government is using ASIO to provide surveillance over Australian trade unions. 
If so, have similar directions been issued in respect of commercial organisations. 
Does the Government's action constitute an improper use of a secret intelligence organisation funded by taxpayers. 
In what other areas of Australian civilian life are security organisations engaged in political espionage. 
Has ASIO been instructed to scrutinise the activities of conservation organisations. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has Telecom recently introduced an automatic dialling telephone monitoring system. 
If so, is this system capable of being used to monitor calls originating from any automatic telephone in Australia, by a technically unqualified person dialling the caller's number. 
Is the caller, whose telephone conversation is being monitored, given any prior warning that the conversation is being monitored by a third person. 
Are illegal extensions to the system a relatively simple technical operation, which can be tapped into the system with a rninimum risk of detection. 
5 ) Who has or will have access to this system. 
Will he ensure that warning devices are provided so that warning is given of monitoring. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government decided that the Tractor Bounty Act will not be renewed. 
Does this Act expire on 1 January 1977. 
Which Australian firms will be affected by discontinuation of the bounty. 
What is the estimated loss of employment resulting from the removal of this bounty. 
What is the estimated cost of the continuation of the bounty in 1977. 
What is the estimated cost to the Government of payment of unemployment benefits to those who lose employment as a result of the loss of the bounty. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
What contracts for supply of goods or material have been placed outside Australia in the last 12 months. 
Were Australian tenders received for any of these contracts. 
In respect of these contracts, would the Australian price now be lower than the overseas contracted price. 
-The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  has just given yet another example of the Government's double standards. He indicated that under the proposed amendments to the Industries Assistance Commission Act the Government will write in a provision which will permit any other action it considers appropriate to be taken. I do not disagree with that proposition, but I point out to the House that the provision is in the Act at the moment as a result of the insistence of members of the present Government in the Senate who demanded its inclusion in exchange for the passage of the Industries Assistance Commission Bill. 
The Government announced today some measures- I say some measures- which if they bring about any sort of recovery will be welcome. But the facts are that if there is to be any resurgence of employment opportunities in Australia or any reduction in the present and growing numbers of persons unemployed manufacturing industry must absorb a far greater proportion of the workforce than it does at the moment. There is no evidence from any responsible observer to suggest that that resurgence is likely to take place under any existing policies. In fact all the evidence indicates that the present decline will continue. The Minister's main thrust concerned the provision of some assistance to enable industry to obtain a hearing before the Temporary Assistance Authority and the making of some minor changes in procedures which may assist some industries if in fact they can get their cases heard while they are still in existence. I point out at least one case last year which involved commercial vehicles. The industry concerned sought for some 7 months to get a Temporary Assistance Authority hearing. Eventually it did not get that hearing. But that is not the root cause of the problem and it is not the solution. Tariffs can be of assistance to existing industries to maintain them; they will not bong about investment in new industry nor any great expansion in existing industry for the purposes of absorbing unemployed persons. 
The Minister, like most spokesmen for the Government and a number of spokesmen outside, wants the public to believe that there were no problems in manufacturing industry in Australia prior to 1974. That is a lot of hogwash. The problems in Australia's manufacturing industries go back at least 15 years and most likely 20 years. There was a boom period. Since then there has been a gradual tapering off of investment and activity in those areas. I point out, for instance, that in the textiles industry in the Geelong area there was a far greater fall in employment between 1970 and 1972 than there was between 1972 and 1975. That is a matter of record. The textile industry is still in decline and most likely will remain in decline. The provision of temporary assistance or levels of assistance is not the answer. I think the Minister knows that as well as I do. Long term guarantees or confidence in long term operations of the industry are necessary before any capital investment will be made by any major business firm. I would think that anyone investing in textiles at the moment would be a gambler of the greatest order. 
The Government is in the process of dismantling Australia's shipbuilding industry. The Government is not prepared to give the industry the sort of assistance which the Japanese Government, which is getting orders to build Australian ships, is giving its own industry. The Government has not at this stage acted in any way on the Jackson report which was released some 15 months or 16 months ago. The House and the nation have not seen the White Paper which was promised. It may be under consideration. Some 15 months or 16 months have elapsed. That is a long time when an industry is in trouble. Employment in Australia depends very substantially on at least the maintenance and if possible an increase in the level of employment in manufacturing industry. The Government has, by policy decision, cut back on employment opportunities in tertiary areas. These are the replacement areas where people would expect to work but which no longer exist. 
The major thrust of the argument of the Minister and of the Government has been that wages are the problem. Wages in Australia are high. 
Standards of living are high. I think that that is an expectancy which for a long period most Australians have come to accept. I do not believe that if wages dropped to the level that exists in Hong Kong or Taiwan our manufacturing industries would be much more competitive than they are now. I am not sure that the Government has really examined whether or not there are problems of management within Australian industry. I think there are serious problems of management. I do not think that the Government is sufficiently concerned about the lack of modernisation of plant and investment in Australian industry. I use as an example the shipbuilding industry which in Australia is 20 years and possibly 30 years out of date in the type of equipment which is being used. No person, no matter how willing, can overcome the disadvantage of technological change if another person is able to use more modern methods. In fact in some industries in Australia workers are being asked to compete in productivity areas. I am disappointed that the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  is not participating in this debate. This situation is like sending men into forests with a flint axe to chop down trees in competition with men with chain saws. That sort of comparison with the machinery and the mechanical facilities available in many of our industries is a fair one. In the 1960s a number of Australian firms were taken over by overseas capital and immediately became competitive where they had not been competitive before. I can instance textile firms in my own electorate which were taken over by efficient management- I think that is the only word I can use- from what would have been at least inefficient management and immediately became productive and competitive and are still competitive in the normal sense of the word. 
Problems which face manufacturing industry in Australia face the nation as a whole. If they are not solved the employment problems will grow. I do not really believe the Government has tackled the problem. In IS months it has not produced a White Paper. It has not produced the magic solutions it talked about throughout 1975. Modifying the terms of the Temporary Assistance Authority may maintain a few existing firms in the field if in fact they can get favourable decisions or can be heard. This will not create any significant new investment and will not overcome a lot of the problems of duplication and under-utilisation of plant- in many cases obsolete plant- in the industries where it is not economic, even with assistance of such things as investment allowances, to replace that plant with new plant. My electorate and the electorate of the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  are totally dependent on manufacturing industry for their survival as areas of employment and areas of prosperity for the people who work in them. There is no alternative employment for people in those electorates. I am concerned that the Government should do far more than a patch-work job. The problem is a serious one. I do not suggest that I have a solution to the problem. At the moment, without something far more substantive than what has been suggested here today or anywhere else, the problem will grow, not fade. I do not believe the Government has tackled it seriously. 
-This is a very narrow and limited measure. The Opposition believes that it should go through the Parliament with the minimum delay. I think it is unfortunate that this debate should evolve into a general defence debate. I think there are other times and other opportunities for such debates. I would hope this practice does not continue. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. The Opposition does not see anything in the Bill that warrants debate. We could congratulate the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  or say that someone else should have taken this action at some other time, but we do not believe in wasting the time of the House with superfluous debate on matters which could easily be raised elsewhere. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many breaches of awards under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act by (a) employees and (b) employers have been confirmed by arbitration inspectors in the last 12 months. 
Against how many (a) employees and (b) employers have prosecutions been commenced. 
Does he have the final authority to determine whether prosecution proceedings will be undertaken. 
-The 4 constitutional Bills represent a package which is derived from the determinations of the Constitutional Convention at Hobart, Sydney and Melbourne. It is pleasing that some results in the form of referenda bills have come before this House. It is unfortunate that the number is not greater. I think at least one other referendum was unanimously agreed to on 2 occasions- the reference of powers provisions which could have been included and which could not have been opposed by anyone. In general, with the exception of the Constitution Alteration (Retirement of Judges) Bill, the other 3 Bills deal largely with this Parliament and the manner in which it is elected. I will deal firstly with the Constitution Alteration (Retirement of Judges) Bill. I think it is quite reasonable that provided the retiring age forjudges is known prior to appointment, such a retiring age should be provided. At the time when the Constitution was written it was not usual for people to retire but I think that at this stage in history people are not expected to hold office beyond the age of 70 years. I think the proposition is a reasonable one which should have the support of the Australian people. I would have thought that if legislation had been passed rather than having the matter decided by referendum the High Court at this stage might have reversed its earlier decision which was made at a time when a different set of criteria existed. I am certain that this referendum will be carried. 
I do not suggest that age is necessarily a bar to good performance. The means by which a judge who reaches an advanced age can be removed are cumbersome and are almost unapproachable. An address of the 2 Houses would be contemplated only in the most extreme circumstances. A government would be loath to move in such a way against a person of great stature who may have reached an advanced age, possibly with some lack of performance. I think it would be a much simpler and better process to have an automatic retiring age. Under such a system we might lose occasionally a brilliant man who has a lot to offer. Unfortunately that happens in all walks of life and it is one of the penalties of having an automatic cut-off date. 
The other referendums are of significant consequence. I think that the line which has developed, and which may or may not be legally correct, that persons who do not live in the States are in some way less than full Australians, is unfortunate. Australia is an island continent although it consists of 2 major islands and a number of minor ones. Every person who lives within the boundaries of Australia ought to be recognised as an Australian for all purposes. The referendum to grant people living in the Territories voting rights for the purposes of referendums is a small step towards recognising them as full Australians. There are other areas in which they may have to be given similar recognition in the future. Although this referendum nas been put before I am certain that on this occasion it will be carried. While I can see no logical argument against it, I can see some emotive State rights argument which I believe does not have any weight. To suggest that a person who lives in Queanbeyan is in some way more of an Australian than someone who lives in Fyshwick is to me a stupid proposition although it is one which is now seriously being put as a legal position in the Commonwealth of Australia 
The other 2 referendums deal with the Senate. They are concerned with when and how senators are elected and maintained in office. The simultaneous elections provision is one which has also been put on a previous occasion and which I believe should then have been carried. I note that there is some opposition to this referendum. At least one newspaper has suggested in an editorial that this proposal will in some way diminish the powers of the Senate. I do not know of any way in which that argument can be sustained unless the person advancing it also suggests that the Senate is of such relative unimportance that Senate elections cannot be held at the same time as House of Representatives elections as is the case with both Houses of the State Parliaments. 
We all know that in a general election the question before the people is who will govern the country for the next period of years. Those of us who have participated in elections are also aware that in a Senate election people generally, say: Why the hell do we have to go out and vote on Saturday? What is it for?' I think that attitude does more damage to the standing of the Senate than anything else could. I think it is ludicrous to suggest that the standing of a House of parliament depends on the day on which it is elected. Does anyone suggest that the Senate of the United States of America is a less important House because it is elected on the same day as the House of Representatives? Does anyone suggest that State parliaments in the United States are less important in their constitutional structure or that they perform their functions less effectively because they are also elected on the same day as the Congress? I think that the argumentit is put usually by a minority, but a vocal minoritythat simultaneous elections diminish the power of the Senate, on the one hand is based on opportunism and, on the other, shows an inferiority complex. Many people who talk loud and long about the importance of their chamber in the Parliament are in fact worried that if they do not say how important they are other people will not recognise their importance. That is very much the motive of some publications. It is the motive of at least one official publication of the Parliament which I think ought to be struck out because of its lack of objectivity. It is certainly the motive of some members of the Senate who feel that in building up the chamber by such vocal gymnastics they are in fact building up themselves personally. 
The stature of a parliament and the stature of its members depend substantially on the manner in which that parliament and its members perform their duties. It depends too on the manner in which they approach the duties with which they are charged under Acts of parliament and the constitution of the country. The Senate is a chamber of this Parliament. It has assumed powers which properly I do not believe exist. Nevertheless, those powers have been assumed. One of those powers is the power to determine whether governments will stay in office. Having assumed that power the Senate is entitled to expect that it will be elected at the same time as the chamber in which governments are formed, and therefore reflect the will and the wish of the elector on the occasion when a government is chosen. It is ludicrous and quite fallacious to argue that if we leave the Constitution as it is and by accident or design of a Prime Minister's choosing separate elections on occasions are held for the Senate, the status of the Senate will be increased. In general terms most elections for the 2 Houses of this Parliament have been conjoint, occurring on the one day. There has been no suggestion that the senators elected on those occasions were in any way inferior to those who were elected on separate occasions. 
There is reason to advance the argument that the persons chosen to be senators on occasions when the 2 Houses have been elected together have been chosen on a more objective basis and that a broader perspective of choice on national policies is exercised even though people might primarily be electing a government in the House of Representatives. In almost all cases very few political leaders have shown any enthusiasm for single Senate elections at which people have been asked to vote for senators and which do not involve the election of a government. In my memory none has been able to whip up enthusiasm in the community for reasons why  Senator A  should be elected instead of  Senator B.  The result has been- the recent Senate election indicates this quite clearly- that people tend to vote for those people who put forward a point of view which is attractive but which would not attract their votes if the choice of a government depended on their decision. Single Senate elections are very much a by-election situation. 
In one recent Senate election an independent senator was elected from Western Australia on a platform to abolish estate duties. In South Australia a candidate was very nearly elected on an education platform. In Victoria a candidate received 20 per cent of the vote but his Party in a general election was able to achieve only between 9 per cent and 12 per cent of the vote. I think it is important that this referendum be carried. 
Another important reason should be advanced in favour of the referendum, namely, that this Parliament has been subject to a continual succession of elections over the years for the Senate and the House of Representatives to the extent that in the last 10 years there has hardly been a year in which some form of election for this Parliament has not taken place. This does not assist in the management and government of this country. It certainly does not give any continuity to government. It creates the unfortunate situation in which governments have to plan on a relatively short term basis those policies which may be unpopular because at the end of every year in recent times there has been an election or an election due early in the following year. There has been uncertainty and this is not something from which parliaments should suffer. If the majority within a parliament changes, then the Government falls. But I do not think governments can function properly if they do not have security of tenure of office. That is one of my arguments against the section of the Constitution that allows the blocking of Supply. Tenure of office is important. If both houses have the power to form governments, when the electorate expresses its opinion both Houses should be elected at the same time. 
-That is correct. In fact I would advance the argument that our Constitution should be changed radically. I do not believe that States are better represented in the existing situation. The best representation would come about- this is a personal view- if those sections of the Constitution which provide for 2 Houses were removed and proportionally elected members sat in this House with members elected under the House of Representatives procedures. I believe that would strengthen the Par.liament and it would make the Parliament a far more responsible body. It would not in any way diminish the representation from the minor States. In fact it would increase it in the chamber of government. That is a personal point of view but I think it is one that bears examination in the future because what I have suggested would strengthen the Parliament, which is tending to divide itself into 2 Houses rather than to unite itself into a parliament. 
One other referendum which is to go to the people is on the question of the replacement of senators where casual vacancies exist. Because senators are elected for long terms on a proportional basis a problem arises when a vacancy occurs. If there were an election the vacancy would be filled on a single vacancy basis or would add to the number of vacancies which would normally occur and therefore distort the result of the election. This has happened on a number of occasions. I will give one or two examples. I think it was in 1964 that the late  Senator Poulter  was elected to represent Queensland. He died before he could take his seat. Therefore a casual vacancy was created to replace a senator elected for a 6-year term. A senator was ultimately appointed. On that occasion the Labor Party had trouble with the Queensland Parliament too. It would not appoint the man who had run in the previous Senate election and who was nominated by the Party, but a senator from the Labor Party nominated by the Labor Party was ultimately appointed. He was subsequently subject to a single vacancy election at the next election. The Labor Party would normally win two out of the five seats in that State in a single vacancy election because it is in a minority. The seat held by the senator filling the casual vacancy would be lost and there would be a distortion of proportional representation for the remainder of that 6-year period because a senator who would not have een elected on a quota system from one party is elected. 
We had a similar situation in Victoria on the death of Sam Cohen.  Senator Brown  was appointed to replace him. An election took place within about 6 months. The Senate vacancy was then filled. I think  Senator Greenwood  was elected. He filled a position which would normally have been filled by his Party under the proportional system. We had a rather ludicrous situation at this stage. The Labor Party, which was entitled to 4 Victorian seats in the Senate, had three. This Bill overcomes that problem by the provision that an appointee shall serve the remainder of the term of the senator he replaces. It therefore maintains the actual wishes of the electorate throughout the term of the senator. It acts to the disadvantage of the Labor Party in this instance because in Victoria at an election due 6 senators would be elected, four of whom would be from the Liberal and National Country Parties. Almost certainly under the proportional representation system the Labor Party would pick up the sixth seat. If the Labor Party did not do so and the Government did not, some minority party would. I expect that would be the situation. That is unfortunate and I can sympathise with  Senator Brown,  whose position is most likely on the Une. He voted for this proposition at the Hobart Constitutional Convention and therefore realises and acknowledges that his personal position is not as important as the long term position. I am sure no Press reporter would take up the story of a politician who in the national interest voted to take 3 years off his own term. I believe it is in the national interest. 
There are controversial sections in this BUI. One is the recognition in the BUI that there are such things as political parties. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the election between Senators Brown and Greenwood for a single Senate vacancy. In fact the seat being contested was  Senator Gorton's  seat, to which  Senator Greenwood  was appointed. Arising out of that and out of the death of  Senator Cohen  during that election,  Senator Brown  subsequently contested the election for senators at which six were elected. As a retiring appointed senator because he was elected further up the list than sixth he lost his seat. The person who finished behind him took the seat to which he had been appointed for 6 months, and he was out of the Parliament for a little over 6 months because he did well in the election. The person who did less well than he immediately came into the Parliament. 
I do not think that there can be any doubt that the simultaneous elections proposition should be carried. As I said before the suspension of the sitting, the argument that, by some quirk of imagination some people think that this downgrades the Senate, is a fallacious argument. I suggest that there is no evidence at all, and I hope that the present senators would support me, that they are m any way inferior or constitute in total an inferior Senate than those senators who were elected at single Senate elections in 1964, 1967 and 1970. 1 reject that argument totally. As I said earlier, it is an opportunist argument, an argument designed to inflate egos and in some cases to advantage minorities, not to bring about a proper rational election of members to both Houses of this Parliament when the responsibilities of government and choosing government are upon the electors. I think that the Australian people should carry all the referenda put forward on this occasion and I am sure that, given honest argument, on the merits of such argument they will do so. 

 -Mr Speaker, I ask for leave to make a statement. 
-I raise with the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  only one query on his statement. I understand that the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Relief Trust Fund Committee has been wound up by its own resolution. I ask the Minister what is the status of his statement if that is true. 

 Mr ADERMANN (Fisher-Minister for the Northern Territory)-The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  says that there is no legal impediment in the matter and that the Committee is functional. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he received a request for the waiving of telephone rental in respect of surf lifesaving clubs. 
If so, does he intend to comply with the request which would assist these important voluntary life preserving organisations. 
-One never ceases to be amazed at the mental gymnastics which Government supporters perform. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  made some almost fairy tale assertions in his speech.  His  first assertion was that he stood for the rights of free choice. In another place tonight legislation is being debated which takes away the equal opportunity of Australians -especially those living in cities in which most of them do- to elect their Parliament. It is a rigged electoral Bill of the worst type. We will debate it tomorrow. 
-I am sorry that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  does not understand the legislation his Government introduces. The Senate tonight is debating amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act. The amendments have not been brought into this place. The Bill being debated in the Senate is not related at all to the referendum Bills in respect of which he is talking. 
I feel that suspension of the 1 1 o'clock rule is a departure from the normal practices of this Parliament. I understand the problem of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  but I believe that the motion to suspend the Standing Orders presents problems for the Opposition. In view of the importance of the legislation it is improper to move such a motion at this hour of the night when it is quite clearly the intention of the Government to push this legislation through the Parliament tomorrow. There are very serious consequences in the legislation and I do not believe that we should be proceeding at this stage of a session, after several years of conduct of the Parliament on what I should have thought were sane lines, to suspend the 11 o'clock rule. The Opposition is opposed to the suspension and will oppose the introduction of the legislation at this time. 
-Has the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development received representations from persons purporting to represent the majority of people in the Geelong area suggesting that the people of Geelong do not want any Commonwealth assistance for growth centre proposals? Has he received a request for another deputation to put counter proposals to him? If so, will he receive that deputation? Will the Minister supply details of submissions which may have been made to him by a subsequent deputation which purported to represent a majority of citizens? Will the Minister answer the question I have on the notice paper on this matter? 
-The Opposition opposes this clause because it will bring into the Act a provision which we believe is to the disadvantage of the Act and does not in any way reflect what it is purported to reflect. The proposal to require that no division- I repeat 'no division'- in a State not having an area of 5000 square kilometres may be smaller than any division which has more than 5000 square kilometres, the larger being deemed large electorates, is, I think, an ill-thought out compromise which creates conditions under which the independence of the Redistribution Commissioners to carry out their job is denied. It deems electorates to be large electorates and therefore entitled to special treatment when they are not large electorates by any criteria in a Commonwealth parliament. I point out to honourable members that we are talking about electorates of the order of 50 miles by 50 miles. 
-It may be big, but I thought that the honourable member would have understood what a large electorate was all about. In some instances the so called large electorates have a smaller effective area than some of the extremely small electorates where travel is difficult. On a Sunday afternoon I would prefer to travel 90 miles in the Wimmera electorate than 30 miles in the La Trobe electorate; I am certain I would do it more quickly. Distance itself is not a criterion. 
I suggest that the proposal being put before the Committee by the Government would be honest if the figure were 20 000 to 50 000 square kilometres. That could be defended as a large electorate. This proposal places on the distribution commissioners an impossible condition. In New South Wales there are 14 seats which are deemed to be in the large electorate category. In Victoria there are 9. There is an equal number of seats in those States which would be looked at as rapid growth seats and which, at the time of a redistribution, would normally be below a quota. I refute what the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  said. He made much play about equal distribution but the proposals put by the Opposition have always been 10 per cent above and below. At least in theory the Government has indicated its support for that practice. A 7-year period is spelt out later in the legislation. Requirements are now being proposed to be put into section 19 of the Act. There are 14 seats in New South Wales and 10 in Victoria at the moment, but I think it would be 9, which must carry fewer electors than any other seat. 
The Minister suggested by inference that some special treatment had been given to the Werriwa electorate. I do not cast that aspersion on distribution commissioners. I believe that they allocated quotas on the criteria which were in the Act. One of the expectancies of redistribution is that growth electorates would grow above a quota during the period in which the set boundaries were current and that electorates which would decline in population would fall below a quota. That sort of criterion has always been used. Only the extremely large electorates have usually been treated differently. If the Minister wants to talk about electorates being treated unfairly in a redistribution, I suggest that he look at the redistribution of 1968 and what was done in the Macquarie electorate. It was about twice the size of the Richmond electorate. It was given about 6000 voters over a quota at that stage, while adjoining Country Party and Liberal Party electorates were given a number below a quota. The Macquarie electorate has in that period grown to the order of 80 000 voters-82 000 voters at the last count- whereas Richmond, with substantially fewer electors at the time of the last redistribution, was given a number well below a quota for the State. Richmond is half the size of the Macquarie electorate. It has 63 000 electors. I suggest that the previous member for Macquarie,  Mr Luchetti,  was apparently not only able to look after a larger electorate but also was expected to be able to look after a larger enrolment in a larger electorate than were the Country Party members who represented electorates which bordered his seat in all directions. 
The 5000 square kilometre proposal is nothing better than a compromise. It is an extraordinarily poor compromise. I believe that if the Government were genuinely seeking to look after the interests of members with difficulties in large seats- I say 'large seats', not what are deemed in this Act to be large- it would be looking at 20 000 or 50 000 square kilometres because they are the sorts of electorates which would have difficulties. It is no good for the Government to talk about the problems of the member for Riverina when it is inserting a provision in an Act which deals with electorates which are 60 miles long by 40 miles wide- 100 kilometres by 60 kilometres. That is not a very big electorate in this day and age. I do not think it would have been considered big even in 1900. 1 suggest that members of the Liberal Party who have accepted this proposition have fallen for the 3-card trick. They would have been better off accepting the original proposition which at least would have given them a chance of getting a fair distribution. 
The honourable member for La Trobe says no. He will get an electorate which will approximate a quota. By the end of the 7-year mandatory period before the next redistribution it will be at least  Vi  times a quota. He may think that is fair to his electors; I do not. I think his electors are entitled to a vote as nearly as possible equal in value to anybody else 's vote. I do not believe the Electoral Act should be amended to give false protection to large electorates when those electorates are not large geographically or in respect of communication or any other circumstance. 
I think the Government would have done itself and the distribution commissioners a service if it had put in the Act a provision that the commissioners should take into account the geographic size of electorates and the geographic difficulties of electorates. Electorates do not have to be big to have geographic difficulties. The 
Government has preferred to write in this provision which will ensure that within a very short period after the redistribution there will be a complete distortion of electorate sizes in each of the major States. The position may be even worse in the smaller States. The flexibility is taken away from the commissioners. It is not unlike the propositions that have been undertaken in some of the States where the commissioners have been given zones and quotas, and the only effective action which they have been able to take has been to draw the lines. The Opposition opposes this clause. I believe it does not reflect what I had hoped the Government intended to reflect. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Opposition is opposed to clause 10. 1 think that the argument has been expanded fairly extensively but, clause 7 having been agreed to, a situation has now been created in which the distribution commissioners no longer have the freedom to give latitude in respect of rapidly growing seats in order to keep them within the 10 per cent tolerance required and, therefore, disparities of enrolments will grow at a more rapid rate than would have been the case under a redistribution without clause 7. 1 suggest to the House that the provision in this clause which prevents a redistribution on the basis of a quarter of the seats in any State being outside the 10 per cent tolerance will lead, by the end of the period, to excessive distortion within States. The Opposition therefore believes that this clause should be deleted from the Bill and the existing provision that a redistribution may take place if a quarter of the seats are outside the 10 per cent tolerance should remain. 
I am not excited about some of the arguments provided about representation with regard to this provision because I was in this House when Ministers belonging to the National Country Party would not provide any facilities to make it easier for members who talk about representing large electorates to represent those large electorates or for the electors to contact the members. They were as barren of facilities as the Nullarbor Plain. I suggest that honourable members who allowed Ministers to take that course concerning their problems of representation are now shedding crocodile tears. I believe that this clause is designed to prevent disruption but, because we have just agreed to clause 7, it will create excessive disparity between electorates. Since the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is sitting on the front bench I might just point out the sort of disparity that already exists. In Queensland the McPherson electorate has 108 800 voters. 
-On figures given in the House but not yet recorded, it has 108 800 electors. The 2 smallest electorates in Queensland currently have a total of 97 000 electors. That means that the electors in the electorate of the honourable member for McPherson, no matter how much capacity he may have- I do not make comment on that- have only half a vote each in this Parliament at the moment. 
Redistributions are something which no individual politician and few parties like. Unfortunately they are necessary. The terms under which redistributions are carried out can have very substantial effects. It is possible to carry out a redistribution which, to all intents and purposes, has the appearance of being fair but which in effect can give a government a margin which makes it almost impossible for it to be defeated. I instance the situation in Victoria where a redistribution, with a fairly substantial swing, would allow the Australian Labor Party to obtain a position very close to government but which would require something more than extraordinary to win the three or four seats above that swing to enable it to obtain office. Electoral boundaries, electoral redistributions and elections should give the people the opportunity to change government where they wish to have a change. The skill of the manipulator prevents that. A redistribution retains the illusion, whilst creating situations where the wishes of the people cannot be reflected in the results of an election. It was truly said on an earlier occasion that it is not the way that the people vote but the way that the people 's votes are counted that matters. In many respects that is the major opposition to this particular proposal. If, for instance, a large electorate was said to be an electorate of over 50 000 square kilometres objections most likely would be lower and less stringent. If the provisions of the Act were that where 25 per cent of the electorates in a State went 10 per cent above or below the quota, a redistribution would take place and then the proposal may be more acceptable. 
The 3 major proposals in this Bill have a cummulative effect. I do not consider some of the electorates at the bottom of the table- electorates consisting of 5000 square kilometres- to be large electorates. I know that the members of at least two of them would not qualify for an overnight allowance by driving 150 kilometres from their homes. Those members cannot qualify for that overnight allowance because that distance does not exist within their electorate. The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  referred to the difficulties of his own electorate. He is one of those members who cannot in fact qualify for an overnight allowance by driving 150 kilometresthat is about 95 miles- in his electorate. In this day and age that is not a lengthy distance. At least two other Victorian electorates which come within the ambit of the 5000 square kilometre proposal are the seats of McMillan and Ballarat. Those electorates have an area of about 60 miles by 40 miles- I will use miles because I am more familiar with them. Not more than 50 miles need be travelled by the members of those electorates to qualify for an allowance. I do not believe that electorates of this type are of a size which warrants the special protection which is proposed in this Bill. 
In the case of the electorate of Ballaarat something like 80 per cent of the electors are within 10 miles of the city of Ballarat which is the centre of population. Ballaarat is substantially an urban electorate with some rural annexes. Although it is an important electorate, it could hardly be declared or considered a large electorate in geographical terms when we compare it to electorates such as Kalgoorlie. 
The cumulative effect of the legislation brings about a time distortion in electorates. It requires the commissioners to ignore the growth factors in electorates. In Victoria the commissioners took into consideration the growth factors of, for example, the electorates of Burke and Diamond Valley and placed them 7 per cent below a quota, which was the case in the 1974 distribution, they would also have to place another 9 electorates 7 per cent below a quota because that is how many electorates are said to be large electorates. I dispute that those 9 electorates are in fact large electorates. They are all larger than my electorate but they are certainly not large by any criteria that could be applied to the national Parliament 
Nine other electorates have to be loaded down. There are 8 rapid growth electorates in Victoria at the moment and there will be 9 after the redistribution because certainly the fringes of Melbourne will warrant an additional electorate. Once the commissioners take one area which is not over 500 square kilometres 7 per cent below a quota they will have to take 18 electorates down. That is the son of long term effect that this legislation will have. Figures which can be quoted at the moment have a built-in distortion because electorates between 1968 and the present time include 18, 19 and 20 year olds who were enrolled by Act of Parliament. Therefore these figures do not represent the normal growth in electorates. They distort the situation in that they show electorates with a growth factor which in fact did not have a growth factor. 
If the normal pattern of electorates takes place certain of them will be loaded down by this proposition. Some of them would have been loaded down anyhow because of their area. The commissioners have fairly consistently taken into consideration the disabilities of members in what are genuinely large electorates. Those will decline below the quota fairly quickly. The growth electorate will move past the quota, at the rate some of them are growing, within 12 months of the distribution being adopted. Most likely some of them would have moved to that stage by the time the distribution has been completed because there is a time lag of nearly a year between the release of the figures and the adoption of the recommendation. 
It is proposed that there should be a period of 7 years between redistributions. It is just over 7 years since the last redistribution. In Victoria the 2 smallest electorates of Wimmera and Mallee added together have only 7000 more voters than the electorate of Burke. They have only 10 per cent more voters than the electorate of Burke. 
This is a ratio of one for two. In Queensland the 2 smallest electorates have 10 000 electors fewer than the electorate of McPherson. We are recreating and multiplying that situation by the 3 joint propositions in this legislation. Electorates of over 5000 square kilometres have a maximum size equal to the minimum size of any other electorate. This is a distortion in that there are electorates which under the normal redistribution proposals would be expected to be loaded down for growth. I am not talking about inner metropolitan electorates about which much play has been made. Usually they are declining electorates but are almost always set above a quota. 
I think that the Liberal Party has fallen for the 3 card trick. It would have been most likely better off if it had accepted a straight out proposition of 7 large electorates at 20 per cent. I would have thought it would have been immoral. But electorally this arrangement would have been more practical for the distribution commissioners and it would have given a more honest reflection of what the Government is trying to say. What the Government has in fact said is that we will have 2 types of members in this Parliament- those who have special electoral laws applied to them and others who do not. If the commissioners use the variations electorates in the inner metropolitan areas in all probability will find themselves 8 per cent to 10 per cent above a quota. If we load half the electorates in the States- that is the situation in New South Wales and Victoria if we allow for the growth in large areas as is proposed, and as would be expected and if we make these allowances- half the electorates in a State will be affected by the 5000 square kilometre proposition one way or the other. They will be affected also by the 7 year redistribution proposition. Then we have to consider the cumulated deficit which we have allowed for those electorates and add that deficit to the remainder. The remainder is not that big. I have added it for the inner metropolitan Labor areas in Victoria. At 5 per cent above a quota- I would expect that this provision would most likely end up with 8 per cent above a quota being required- there is something like an 89 000 vote deficit in the area. That represents one electorate in 20 000 electors. The same cumulative deficit exists in both the Labor and Liberal areas of inner Sydney. The position is almost identical in the Liberal areas in Melbourne because there is very little difference in the populations between one area and another. Everyone recognises those are to have additions. Most likely they would need 50 000 to 60 000 people to get them back up to the quota and with the same degree of loading. The cumulative effect of these 3 measures will mean that those electorates will be well above what they should normally have been. Others will be loaded down, not because of their size, not because of any consideration the commissioners would normally have given that sort of loading but because of some other electorate which has no relevance at all. I use an obvious example in Victoria. If the electorate of Burke is loaded down to allow it to be a reasonable size half way through the period of redistribution, Ballaarat has to be loaded down with it for no other reason than that the electorate of Burke will grow rapidly. Ballaarat is not a large seat. This Bill will attach what happens in Ballaarat to what happens in another seat, and apply a redistribution factor to it which has no relevance to it and which will have the effect of adding possibly 5000 voters to another seat in the metropolitan area which should not have those 5000 voters, except that they happen to be left over when the sums for the special treatment seats are concluded. 
The other result- I would hope this is the type of result the Commissioners will in fact adoptthat can come from these proposals is that the Commissioners will use their discretion in seats like Darling, Kalgoorlie, and Leichhardt, the very large seats, and ignore differentials in the other seats, especially in the metropolitan areas, and give them about a quota each. I am not sure that that would satisfy the Country Party and I think we would even have the threat of an election at large. 
That is the only practical solution under the existing terms because there is not one proposal or 2 proposals but 3 proposals. I think the area of 5000 square kilometres is a serious mistake, even on the policies the Government is trying to put. If it had adopted a figure of 50 000 or even 20 000, most likely it would have been a better proposition. I would suggest that there is no way that special treatment can be warranted in an electorate 60 miles by 40 miles. That is not an extremely large electorate in Australian or any other terms. It does not warrant special treatment, but it is to get special treatment purely because it happens to be covered by a tribunal report made by people looking at a different set of criteria. As I said before, the member in such an electorate would not even qualify for an overnight allowance because he would not be able to travel the required distance in his electorate. 
This Bill should be withdrawn. It is not required for the redistribution. The existing Act would allow a redistribution to go ahead. The Government, if the honourable member for 
Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  is  to be  believed, is able to influence the Commissioners. I doubt that myself. I saw the last Victorian redistribution. Whilst I did well out of it, I am not sure that the Australian Labor Party did. I think that Commissioners, once appointed, do their jobs conscientiously. They do it within the guidelines which governments and parliaments lay down, which may be crook. I think the Commissioners are at least men of integrity and try to do the job they are given. The suggestion that is regularly made that such and such a party made a redistribution is not one which I accept. I know that political parties will always seek to influence. Why not? There are advantages in redistribution far greater than the advantages to be gained in elections. Ask the Premier of Queensland. 
On or two other things in this Bill ought to be considered. One is the proposition of 'at large' elections. There are no rules by which such elections shall be conducted. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  will remember a case not that far back when no opportunity would have existed for the Parliament to provide 'at large' provisions. In those circumstances there was a possibility that the definition of 'towards the end of a term' might have been challenged in the courts at a time when the Parliament had in fact been dissolved. I do not think that is the sort of situation into which any nation can allow itself to be brought. I do not know what the legal result of such a situation would be. 'Towards the end of the Parliament' is a pretty open statement. It would seem to me that something should be written into the Act to define the words. I think the words are actually 'towards the end of the life of the Parliament'. They come from the High Court judgment, which is delightfully vague on the question. 
-I am not sure of the number, but rules for an 'at large' election do not exist. I would hope there could be no situation in which such an election could take place because, no matter how it was conducted, it would be a distortion of the process by which this House is normally elected or expected to be elected. It certainly would create serious difficulties in the re-assembly of a Parliament and the counting of votes. Most likely the reassembly of Parliament, the issues of writs, etc, could not take place within the terms of the Commonwealth Electoral Act as it exists. 
I hope the Attorney-General will take notice of one of the things the honourable member for 
Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  said and consider a provision for an automatic acceptance of redistribution proposals. I do not believe it is proper that a redistribution should depend on it being acceptable to the party with the majority of votes at any given election. As I said when I first stood up, redistribution is unpalatable to members of Parliament. I would like to see Commissioners appointed with the approval of both sides of the Parliament. I do not think that should be beyond the imagination of man. It should be possible to send their report to the Parliament and for it to be sent back for a review if it is thought not be suitable and the review should follow the same procedures as in other reviews. The Commissioners should consider the objections and decide whether they should be accepted. The report could then become law. In 1962, for example, it was improper that when one seat disappeared in New South Wales there was not a redistribution. The honourable member for Griffith pointed out how sparse redistributions have been in the past. I think for political reasons and not for practical reasons that has been the case. 
The laws governing elections and distributions are too important to be tied up in this sort of compromise. The recent High Court judgment was in fact a blow at the Government, which rushed through legislation in 1965 after it had lost control of the Senate but before the new senators took office, to provide what has now been declared to be an illegal means of setting the number of members or determining the quotas for members in this House. It is something which should be seriously considered. These propositions cumulatively are not good propositions and do not reflect a situation which this Parliament can support. 
-Earlier in the evening the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  indicated that he would give certain undertakings in relation to the Committee stage of the Bill. Unfortunately he did not rise to do so. I ask whether the Attorney-General is prepared at this stage to indicate that position on the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he receive a deputation from the Geelong area on 25 January 1977. 
If so, what was the purpose of the deputation. 
3 ) Who requested him to receive it. 
What are the names of those persons whom it was intimated would form part of the deputation. 
5 ) Who actually took part in it. 
Will he make available a copy of any submission which was presented to him by the deputation. 
Has he instructed his officers not to reveal any information regarding the deputation and not to confirm that he actually received it. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is there any Federal law which prevents a person under charge or investigation for breaches of a State companies Act moving to another State and carrying on a similar business or establishing a new company or taking an appointment associated with public or corporate affairs? 

 -Mr Speaker, I want to raise with you a matter which is of some importance. During question time the Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development indicated that adequate copies of the Fox report were available. I have ascertained that no copies are available to members in the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives other than on loan and that only one copy is available for that purpose. Will you inquire into the reason why no supplies are available? 
-The Opposition is clearly a party to these propositions, having agreed to them in the House of Representatives Standing Commute on Standing Orders. I want to direct some remarks to the first proposition, which fixes the hours of sitting of the House. I direct my remarks in the context of a report which was presented to this Parliament on 26 May last year and which the Parliament directed should be considered as a matter of urgency. I refer to the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  will be aware, and honourable members are obviously aware, of the concern being expressed by the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation that issues relating to the sittings of the House contained in that report have not come before the House for discussion. In fact, despite a clear undertaking given at the time of the tabling of that document by the Leader of the House, that document has not come before the House for discussion. 
We are now fixing sitting times for this session of the Parliament. I should have thought it appropriate that some consideration should be given to the recommendations of the Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System. I am not indicating that I necessarily would support the recommendations of that Committee. But certainly the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  has made it clear in a letter which has been addressed to me, and which I presume has been addressed to other members and ministers, that some considerable difficulties are being experienced with the present sitting arrangements to organise sittings of parliamentary committees. I raise this matter because I think it is now approaching a year since the report of the Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System was brought down. The Committee started hearing evidence more than 2 years ago. I know that because I was the initial  chairman  of the Committee. So the contents of the report of the Committee will be almost invalid because of the passage of time if the Parliament does not at least consider it shortly. 
Another undertaking which was given at the time of the presentation of that report and which I think is relevant was that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure was set up on the understanding that the other recommendations of the Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System would be taken into consideration shortly. I think the Committee on Expenditure was set up on the understanding that the Government considered the establishment of such a committee to be a matter of urgency. 
I put to the House that the House ought to examine its procedures. It took the course of appointing a committee, in which representatives from both sides of the Parliament and both Houses of the Parliament participated, which made a considered and fairly substantial recommendation. Unlike most committees, this Committee sought information not only from within Australia but also from comparable Parliaments outside Australia, even if the Committee did have to return to Australia in the middle of its deliberations. But I think the report of this Committee is a serious document. We ought to have some understanding that it will be considered by the Parliament. It is relevant to the hours of sitting of this House because recommendations in that report refer to hours of sitting and to some alterations to those hours of sitting to enable committees to meet without interruptions by bells and other aspects of parliamentary life which make the hearings of any committee which requires people to be brought to Canberra for questioning unsatisfactory and impractical while the House is actually sitting. Might I suggest,  Mr Speaker,  that this might be an appropriate time for the suspension of the sitting? 
-I have some other remarks to make which are not related to this particular subject. Only half a minute remains until 1 o'clock. 
-I will not finish in that time, I assure you,  Mr Speaker.  We are not opposing the proposal concerning the adjournment. The Opposition is concerned that, when certain speakers rise on matters which are of controversy and are allowed only S minutes to address the Chair, organised interruptions- this happens to members on both sides of the House- can lend themselves to the destruction of the speech. I think this is something the House ought to take into consideration. I would almost suggest the  Speaker  should have the power to grant the honourable member concerned an additional period if his speaking time has been taken up with these actions. I realise that this matter would be difficult to deal with. Members rights can be denied in this way. A matter which could be dealt with in 5 minutes sometimes cannot be dealt with at all because of organised interruptions. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was making the point that the 5 minutes allowed for speakers during the adjournment debate was not opposed by the Opposition. We are concerned at the ease with which speeches can be interrupted now and by which means the major portion of a member's time can be taken away. The Opposition is not opposing the trial period for a number of the proposed Standing Orders which, I think, have been before the Standing Orders Committee on a number of occasions. I point out that the change in the procedures relating to a quorum by which the House, when counted out, does not necessarily adjourn until the next day of sitting does not take any onus off members to be present when a quorum is called. It takes some onus off the person who calls the quorum because he does not run the risk of a count out, which has a certain odium. The odium attaches to both sides of the House when a count out takes place. The proposed standing order provides that the  Speaker  may again take the chair after the ringing of the bells at a time stated by the  Speaker.  The Opposition would be concerned if the time stated were any substantial time after the first ringing of the bells. For instance, if the House were counted out at 3 p.m., I do not think it would be reasonable to suggest that the bells be rung at 9 p.m. 
As I have indicated, the Opposition does not oppose the proposals. We will watch them with some interest, and we will be looking to have them included in the Standing Orders if they work or to have them amended fairly soon in the session if they do not work. I think it is important that we know exactly where we stand in relation to the Standing Orders. Most of these are substantive matters which should be built into the Standing Orders as early as possible if they prove satisfactory so that there is no ambiguity between what is in the printed Standing Orders and what applies in the House. Otherwise it could create difficulties for members. I suggest that after a reasonable period, possibly at the end of the Budget session, we should be looking to see whether these proposals should be included as Standing Orders rather than continue them until the end of the Parliament. The Opposition does not oppose the propositions, but I reiterate that we are seeking to have the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System debated in the House so that members can express an opinion on it. 
-The undertaking was given. We are also concerned about the limit of S minutes on speeches during the adjournment debate in that quite often a member cannot make his point in that time on a controversial matter. 
I raise only one question. Is it proposed to re-appoint the members of the Committee forthwith so that they can continue their deliberations? 

 Mr HOWARD (Bennelong-Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs)- (3.6)- in reply- I understand from my colleague in another place that that is the proposal. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I was rather surprised that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  did not think that any matters relating to his area were worth bringing before this Parliament. He made it clear to this House that he did not believe that the Queen's Speech was worth discussing. However, I suggest that while he is running a book on the leadership stakes he should look at the leadership of his Party. I have been a member of this House for almost 10 years now. The present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  is the second Leader that this Party has had during that period. There are no ex-leaders of the Australian Labor Party in this chamber or alive, such is the longevity of leaders of our Party and the loyalty of members of our Party to our leaders. I do not think the honourable member can say that about his Party. In one seat rests a former Prime Minister who was undermined and eventually dismissed. The present  Speaker  is a further casualty of party in-fighting. He was informed that he was no longer required as the Leader of the Party. The present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was the successful applicant for the job. I will be nice and put it that way. 
A person by the name of  Mr John  Gorton was Prime Minister for a while. When I was first elected to the Parliament  Mr Harold  Holt was the Leader. The leadership of the Party was left vacant when he met with an unfortunate accident. I think it is fair to say that the record of gentlemen opposite in leadership ballots is not good. I think it is also fair to say that some of the talk that has been floated around about an early election is most likely designed to protect the back of a person who would feel insecure and who would not mind getting rid of a few back benchers who are likely to cause him problems. I want to be serious because I think this is a serious matter. 
It is very hard when there are members in the House such as the honourable member for St George. The speech which he made last night was a disgrace to the Parliament. He supported quite openly the murder of students in Thailand, without one word of protest, but he protested in other circumstances and picked his marks on political grounds, not humanitarian grounds. 
The Queen's Speech was the second most disappointing speech from the throne during the period I have been a member of this Parliament. The Queen read a Speech which was prepared for her by her advisers. I think the House and the public should be quite clear that the Speech was the speech of her advisers, not of the Crown. Therefore it is open to criticism, without it being a criticism of the Crown. I want to make that quite clear at the start because it is important. The Speech contained nothing new, no hope for persons who are concerned about the manner in which this country is drifting. Its only significant commentary was that the Government intends to press ahead with its industrial relations bureau which can serve only one purpose- to undermine the conciliation and arbitration system and to create disunity in the Australian community at a time when the most important thing that any government could seek to achieve in this community is unity of purpose among the Australian people. I think it will be the most unfortunate development created by this Government which is led by a man who has said that he does not believe in an equal society, that people are different and that the different classes should be treated as such. 
The most disastrous thing about this Government is the divisive manner in which it operates. It seeks to divide the Australian community. Each failure of a scheme or proposal by the Government is accompanied by an abuse of those people who have suffered under that scheme. There has been recurring abuse of the unemployed. They have been called dole bludgers. There has been substantial evidence of people being denied unemployment benefit, on pretexts. I can give the House an instance. I refer to the case of a man with a physical disability, a back injury- unfortunately such injuries are prevalent in our society- who has very little chance of obtaining a labouring job, which is the only job he can do. He was out of work from 1 974 until recently. The only benefit for which he is eligible is the unemployment benefit. During that period the Commonwealth Employment Service did not once refer him to a position for which he could apply. Yet, 2 weeks before 
Christmas- the man has a family- the unemployment benefit was summarily taken from him on the grounds that he was not trying to seek work. 
In  2Vi  years the Commonwealth Employment Service had not even been able to find a suitable position to which it could refer the man. Yet, 2 weeks before Christmas unemployment benefits were taken from him because he was not trying to seek work and he was left without funds. I do not know how many times a man is expected to line up in front of the same employer and ask him whether he has a job. It must be the most humiliating and demoralising experience a man can have. The only reason he is doing this is that the regulations insist upon it. The Commonwealth Employment Service knows that he will not get a job. The Department of Social Security knows that he will not get a job. I am certain that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  knows of men like this who will not get jobs but in order to keep the statistics right this man was denied unemployment benefits and was left without funds for 6 or 8 weeks. 
Obviously, in any system some people will abuse it. There are smart cookies in every walk of life. If there is an easy way to make a buck they will make it. This practice is not confined to people who depend on government funds. Everyday there are published many instances of persons who are seeking to defraud the public through company transactions or fraudulent financial transactions or even by selling tickets to Abba concerts at many times their proper value. They are all sharp practices. Such people are taking down someone else in the community in order to make a living. The people whose livelihoods depend on other people in society are easy targets. Unfortunately, most people look upon their own rights as being divine and on the rights of other people as being unnecessary or wasteful. That is the stage which our society has reached. 
The wage earner has been attacked because he seeks to recoup the increased cost in the community which he must bear. The Prime Minister last year made a statement on local government funds. After the announcement of the allocations of funds for local government which were to be made available by this Government he said that there would be no need for local governments to increase rates. I do not know of any local government body which has been able to balance its books even with the funds which were said to be sufficient. The facts are that rates are rising. 
-The honourable member may know a couple of local governments which have $300,000 in fixed deposits. I guarantee that their ratepayers are not getting good service. I can name a few which are bankrupt. 
-No, they are in Queensland. The farmers have not been receiving sufficient income to be able to pay their rates. It is a serious problem. I am not laughing. 
-I think that the Labor Government could have done almost anything but I am certain that it could not have created a drought. Matters which should come before this House and be treated seriously are being used as vehicles for making abuse or bringing out the selfishness in people. That is being done for political purposes. Regrettably, this divisive practice is becoming more prevalent every day. 
-The Government which the honourable member supports is currently before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission seeking to deny those on the lowest incomes the opportunity to recoup the costs which they must bear in the form of increased prices. Last week the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  made the statement that cattle producers should withhold their cattle from the market in order to force up the prices. However, I consider that the unions have the same function as the cattlemen's associations- that is to get the best price for their members' labour that they can. The argument I have with the statements of the  Deputy  Prime Minister is that he will then support a proposition that will deny to those people who are required to pay the increased prices the increased income that they would need in order to maintain their standard of living. The  Deputy  Prime Minister would go into court and seek to have passed on to them only part of the cost increase involved in buying food. Cumulatively this will result in less purchases being made and reduced opportunities for Australian industry and manufacturers to sell their goods. 
I want to deal with one specific case. A few weeks ago the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  announced quotas on garments and textile imports. As a result of this announcement Zora Fashions (Geelong) Pty Ltd, a firm in my electorate, this week has had to retrench one-third of its work force. It has had to retrench one hundred out of 300 women who work in an area where alternative employment does not exist. 
-It did not retrench any then. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! There has been a continual flow of interjections since 8 o'clock when this debate was resumed. I warn members of the House that if interjections continue I shall take action against them. This is the last time I shall speak to honourable members. 
-Zora Fashions is a firm which is extremely competitive in the manufacture of garments. This firm, as do other firms in this area, competes with imported goods. The announcement concerning quotas relating to imported goods was delayed for some 6 months because either the Government could not make up its mind or the Minister was not prepared to release details of the quotas. As a result this firm has not been able to plan ahead on the basis of changed quotas. It is now in the situation where the imported raw materials for the woven cloth which it requires to manufacture goods for which it can obtain orders are being denied to it. The materials mainly in question are lining materials and stretch courtelles. The quotas on garment imports allow retailers to import garments, including the cloth which the manufacturer about which I am speaking is denied access in order to compete. Suitable alternatives, either competitive or otherwise, are obviously not available in Australia. Hence a firm which has been supplying major retailers with these goods for some considerable time has been forced to retrench its staff because it is not able to import the basic requirements. 
The Australian textile industry gains nothing from the Government's decision on quotas because they allow fully made up garments, which include exactly the same materials that the Australian manufacturer is not allowed to bring into Australia, to be used in competition with or as a replacement for what would be manufactured by this garment manufacturer. Last Friday I sent telegrams to all the relevant Ministers. I have had an acknowledgement from two of them, but I have not received a reply. One hundred people will walk out of the door tomorrow without jobs and without any prospects whatsoever of obtaining employment in the area in which they are working. I am sure that some honourable members opposite have exactly the same situation in their areas. If one lives in a provincial area there is no alternative employment to that of the major employers in that area. One cannot go to another suburb to look for a job. 
The matter I have raised is a serious one. It shows the complications which exist in any areas affected by quotas or tariff restrictions. The firm to which I have referred is in fact denied access to imported materials. As a result it has lost orders. The Australian textile industry will not gain anything because the supplies which are required by this manufacturer will come in in made up garment form and as a result both industries will be the losers. I have drawn attention to that because it is important. 
Finally, I want to draw attention to one other matter. There has been much debate this week and last week about the wage indexation case. Tears of blood almost have been wept about the manner in which indexation decisions are passed on in a percentage form. I think the House ought to take into consideration and ought to remember the reason why the total wage concept now exists and who brought it about. The present problem of indexation, and a great deal of the problem which has arisen since the gap between the lowest and highest areas of wages has been widening, rests on a particular step which was taken for expediency in 1967 when the employers, in order to end the 2-hearing situation that then existed, were successful in their application to the court to eliminate the basic wage margins concept. 
An application to pass on the cost of living increases on a fixed basis to a basic wage which was a component of everyone's wage was defeated in the courts. It was defeated in the courts purely because the employers thought that it was a manner in which they could prevent the then Australian Council of Trade Unions advocate from taking all of the test cases and spreading those cases over such a broad field that it would be impossible for any one person to prepare or consider the cases. The then Government supported the application for the elimination of the basic wage. I am certain that it would seek to reinstate ยซ if the opportunity to do so occurred now. 
The fact of the matter is that the complaints that are now being made about the manner in which wage determinations are applied are the result of the physical impossibility of the total wage concept that was adopted in 1967. It was a physical impossibility. There are thousands of awards. Those who sought this provision forgot or ignored the fact that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission cannot hear separate cases on every award determination. The Commission adopted what was the only way out, that is, the awarding of percentage rises across the board to cope with what was the basic wage and the margins concept. The employers are now lumbered with the fruits of their success and they have not stopped screaming since they obtained what they sought. Strangely enough, the ones who have gained the most from the decision to bring in a total wage concept are the unions. They are the ones who opposed the change at that time. If honourable members opposite treat the matter seriously rather than on a political basis I think they will find that the wages situation in Australia would have been much different now if the basic wage and margins concept had been retained whereby the cost of living factor was dealt with in a separate case from margins for skill. 
I repeat my earlier statement that the Speech delivered by the Queen on behalf of the Government was a speech which did not offer this Par.liament or the Australian people much more hope than the speech that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I and some other honourable members in the chamber remember being delivered on an earlier occasion and which I think took - 
-No, in 1969. It took 90 seconds and was only one sentence in length. 
-The Minister was a Minister in the government at that time. It was in 1969. There was a one sentence oration from the throne. 
-I think it was worse. At least the other one was honest. It said nothing and it meant nothing. 
-That one said nothing and meant nothing. This one said nothing and purported to mean something. That is a great difference. The Opposition is disappointed with the program that the Government has put forward. It believes that there are problems in our society and that they are problems that can be solved only by support and advocacy of national unity. Unfortunately the Government has chosen the path of division, which has been its political tactic on so many occasions. It will not succeed in helping the nation, even if it helps the Government politically. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr LucockOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

-The Opposition does not oppose the motion. It is a motion which is normally moved in this House. But I think I should take the opportunity to draw to the attention of the House the fact that when a similar motion was last moved on 7 March 1 974, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a speech in which he portrayed the motion as some sort of an evil plot by the then Government in order to enable sales tax legislation to be sneaked through the House. I think this is one of those motions which are moved regularly, which are accepted by both sides of the House excepting those people who do not understand them and which most likely ought to be considered for inclusion in our Standing Orders. I seek the indulgence of the House to incorporate in  Hansard  the speech which was made by the honourable member for Wannon, the then Leader of the Opposition, on the last occasion on which a similar motion was brought forward so that the difference between the Government's approach in government and its approach in Opposition can be seen. 
-We have listened to a rather naive speech from the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury).  Migration is about people; not only people who come to this country but also people who live in it. When considering migration we have to consider the approach of the government of the day which would be expecting to receive the migrants, and we must consider also the people seeking to come to this country as migrants. Each of those things, I think, is a matter which requires serious consideration in any discussion on increasing, reducing or maintaining the rates of migration to Australia. I deal with the proposition of an increase because that appears to be the proposition which is being put. At the moment there is an extremely constrictive immigration policy which was initiated under a Labor government and which has been carried on, I think in almost equal effect, by the present Government. 
-I suggest that there have been minimal changes. The present policy makes it extremely difficult for extended family reunion. It makes it almost impossible for persons with relatively low levels of skill and it makes it difficult for many skilled persons. Some of the intent of the program is to make up for deficiencies within our own country and within our own training programs and, to a large extent, to make up for the lack of responsibility- I say that advisedly- of some of our industries which have failed to maintain proper training replacement programs for the tradesmen they need m order to continue their operations. Also in that area is what one would call the cuckoo theory whereby people attain their tradesman by preying on those who do the right thing by providing adequate apprenticeships and other forms of training programs. In each of these areas the Government plays almost no role. 
We hear a lot of talk about support for training of apprentices and of other persons, but in real effect, apart from those persons who are trained by government instrumentalities- and that is a declining area- the Government has given little support. For instance, the Commonwealth Government has withdrawn very substantially in the last 2 years from major apprenticeship training in its own right as part of its cost cutting program. I assume that now we will bring in by a form of migration tradesmen whom the Government is not going to train in its own instrumentalities. I suggest that it is most likely that the cost of importing tradesmen, especially with the uncertainties of recognition which exist- I think the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  would understand that as well as I do- would be greater than the cost of training the tradesmen within our own instrumentalities. If we are looking for migrants as a basis of providing skilled trades I think we are deluding ourselves to some extent. If we are looking to migrants as a stimulus to business, as business is suggesting- it may be effective but there are most likely less costly and more humane needs by which that stimulus could be added- I think we are deluding ourselves. If we are merely looking for migrants also because we feel there is something wrong with the numbers situation as it exists in Australia at the moment and we would like to have growth patterns because growth patterns are part of the conventional wisdom, I think we are deluding ourselves. 
If we are to seek additional migrants I think we must be more prepared than we have been in the past to take the steps necessary to cope with the additional population we are seeking. It is estimated that the social cost of settling a migrant at the moment is between $12,000 and $20,000. That cost has never been met in the past by governments; in fact federal governments have tended to lob people off the ship on to the wharf, after having met some part of the cost of passage in most cases, and to leave them to their own devices. Possibly they have provided hostel accommodation for some period. This has worked out for some families; it has not worked out for others. It has caused real trauma in some areas and social disruption in others. Governments have denied responsibility for the product of their own policies in this area. If the Government is to step up the immigration policy in order to bring about a net gain of say 30 000 or 70 000 persons a year, it has to be prepared to do something that governments have not done in the past, that is, to provide the wherewithall in order to finance an immigration program at the increased rate which it determines the program should reach. That includes the provision of proper training facilities for persons on arrival in Australia in order that they may be assimilated quickly into the population and in order that they maintain a reasonably equal chance within the work force. 
It is all very well to look back at what happened in the 1950s and the 1960s when people could be employed immediately they got off the boat, but they cannot be employed immediately now. The areas where unskilled workers would seek work are a declining section of our employment market. I think the Minister is most likely aware that manufacturing industry now represents 2 1 per cent or 22 per cent of the work force in Australia. That is the area into which migrants traditionally have gone as workers. For instance, one of the major employers of migrants in my electorate, the car industry, is static in growth. It most likely could be stimulated but I do not think it is likely to be stimulated because I do not think the Government will take the actions which would be necessary to achieve that, and they may not be economically justifiable. But that is not an argument that I wish to go into here. The fact is that employment in that industry is not likely to increase. 
Employment in the heavy industries which traditionally have been employers of migrants, such as the steel industry, is in a serious decline. Real unemployment exists in those areas. I do not think it could be suggested that those areas could absorb migrant labour. The suggestion that an intake of migrants will increase demand for resources is most likely true. But it is the short term increase in demand which, if the Government does not take other steps, will have a long term effect. Housing is obviously another important area. Migrants will require accommodation. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro mentioned loan accommodation. I do not think many migrant families coming to Australia who have had to meet the cost of their own passage- substantially that is now the case- would be in a position to enter into contracts to purchase houses at other than disastrous rates of interest, almost usurious rates of interest. Repayment costs would be beyond them and in other ways would give them serious disadvantages. I do not think many migrant families would be in a satisfactory position to start using resources such as requirements for housing. But I say this: At the moment the Government is involved in a program of shedding totally its responsibilities in the housing field. It says that it is passing them back to the States where they belong. That may or may not be true. But at the moment the Government is demanding that the States spend less money and reduce their rates of expenditure, which does not seem to me to offer a great prospect for migrants receiving the sorts of assistance which would be required if they are to be brought into Australia and accommodated as they are entitled to be if we are bringing them into the country for our benefit rather than for their benefit. I have not heard anyone suggest that we are going to increase the size of the immigration program for any reason other than a selfish reason, that the program would benefit us- not them. English migrants are in an even more difficult situation. State Departments of Immigration go through some form of mystical process of screening migrants. After they have been screened and the sponsors in Australia feel that they have arrived at a situation where approval will be granted, they begin the process through which other migrants go in the normal sense by being rescreened by the Commonwealth Department of Immigration. Usually the results are quite different from those of the State departments. The States appear to me to serve little purpose other than a public relations exercise. The chances of this Government meeting the financial requirements of an increased migration program are not great. At the moment in the city of Melbourne- the city of Sydney is worse- areas within 10 miles of the city are being sewered 20 years after their development. Migrants would be expected to go into those areas and to build new houses further out. They would obtain services at about that rate. The Government is reducing or is encouraging the States to reduce- or both- their expenditures in that area. 
The migrant English program is almost nonexistent. In fact, in the Victorian scene, the teachers who were operating in schools- I think this is an important factor- have been transferred to other duties in most instances. Children, especially non-English speaking children who come to Australia and who are in their middle school years, are at an extraordinary disadvantage from which it is almost impossible for them to recover. It is totally impossible if they are not given more than the normal resources which would give them a catch-up provision in the language in which they must study if they are to acquire any form of expertise or qualification. They must be taught a different basic social fabric in history and in all of the other forms of learning which they undertake. The resources are not made available for this to be done. The Commonwealth Government is not doing it. I am not suggesting that the present Government is the first that has acted in this way. We talk about the success of the early immigration programs. They were successful because Australia needed workers, the jobs were available, the migrants were readily absorbed and they had nowhere else to go. The program in the 1940s was to take out of displaced persons camps displaced persons who had nowhere to go. 
-I am talking about nonEnglish speaking migrants in this instance. English speaking migrants start with some advantage. They have the same sort of social background. 
I am speaking about nonEnglish speaking migrants. They are an important source of migrants to Australia and have provided a substantial proportion of the postwar immigration program. I do not think it is fanto say that the post-war immigration program was the start of migration. About one-sixth of Australia's population has been non-native born at every census this century, except in 1931. It is fair to say that while the numbers increased in the post-war period they increased relative to a greater population base. 
The point I am making- I think it should be made quite strongly- is that we should not be starting an increased immigration program merely because this would be seen to be some way of stimulating our economy or stimulating growth. We should not be starting an increased immigration program, if that is our desire, purely for selfish reasons. The people who arrive here as immigrants are people who are entitled to be treated as people. That means that the resources to house them, to give them jobs, to provide their children with education and to provide security to the older sections of the family who ought to have proper reunion rights must be made available to those people, hopefully in family units. The other thing which was a feature of earlier immigration programs was that we welcomed the males and left the females where they were. It caused serious social disruptions and disruptions among individuals because they lacked the normal, natural situation under which any human society operates. 
These are problems which cannot be dealt with unless the Government is prepared to meet the cost, and that is what we get back to. We are in a situation in Australia at the moment in which every item of expenditure is questioned. The Government will not meet the social costs of housing an increased migrant flow unless it rapidly changes the policies which it is currently enunciating and which are being enunciated daily by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It will not meet the cost, in social content, of people being lobbed in Australia and asked to survive for up to 20 and 30 years without the normal social amenities of any community. I suggest that if the consequence of an increased immigration flow is that more people are settled on the fringes of the 2 major capital cities of Australia the program, while it might be temporarily satisfactory as a stimulant, will be regressive in its total concept because of the consequences on those capital cities which are already in a situation of turmoil because of their population and lack of social fabric. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Corio moving a motion that the report be printed. 
I want to speak not necessarily directly to the report but to the consequences of the report, the consequences of the investigation which led to the report, and some other matters which I think are of consequence to this Parliament. Obviously I have not had time to read the report. I did not hear the evidence or seek to read the evidence which was placed before the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. The members of that Committee who have drawn up the report would be in a far better position to deal with those matters. 
One of the matters which concern me is that in its conclusions the report contains criticisms of individuals who were not in fact called before the Committee. The report also indicates that at least one officer, and possibly 2 officers, of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, including the Secretary of that Department, gave evidence before the Committee- not the Committee as it is presently comprised but one of its predecessors, I think twice removed- which was subsequently admitted to have been incorrect. I understand that under cross-examination at least one other witness indicated that information which he had given at that session was not entirely accurate. What concerns me is that in the instance of the Secretary of the Department and at least one officer of the Department the evidence which was given in good faith or otherwise- it is claimed that at least the Secretary of the Department did not know at the time he gave that evidence before the Committee that it was incorrectwas extremely damaging to the Minister as it was given at a public hearing. On admission by the Secretary of the Department that evidence subsequently proved to be inaccurate. 
That is of concern to me. It concerns me in two separate ways: Firstly, that deliberately or accidentally an officer of a department can under privilege before a parliamentary committee undermine the position of his Minister- in this particular case the Minister had moved to another portfolio- or a Minister or a member of the Parliament. Unless, subsequently, new evidence comes to light, as it did on this occasion, the Committee is not in a position to ascertain the accuracy or otherwise of the evidence that has been given. I understand that the knowledge that some of that information was incorrect came to the Committee at a time immediately prior to the dissolution of the Parliament. That was an inopportune time for that to happen, because until the presentation of this report the Parliament had not been advised of the facts. It is my belief that parliamentary committees- this is especially so when they are dealing with subjects as delicate as the relationships between a department and the Minister responsible for that department at any given time- ought, in cases where evidence given by the Department is found to be incorrect and therefore damaging to the Minister or the member concerned, immediately report to the Parliament upon any refutation or withdrawal of that evidence. 
In my opinion it is a very serious matter that an officer, no matter in what circumstances, can place his Minister in a position which could be untenable- this would have been the situation had the then Minister continued in his position throughout the hearings of this inquiry- when it is found that evidence of a damaging nature given is incorrect and that fact is not immediately the subject of a report to the Parliament by the Committee. The evidence is now a year, or possibly 2 years, old. The events are a cold trail and it could be said that if the then Minister, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  had been more vulnerable in his position in this Parliament he would be an ex-member. If he had a marginal seat the damage which could have been done to him by the evidence which subsequently proved to be inaccurate would at least have caused him serious political damage. It certainly would have caused him serious damage in his standing as a Minister. I think that is one of the serious matters about the report. 
Another thing that concerns me is that in the report some blame, rightly or wrongly, is placed upon the then Minister's staff at the time. I understand that most of the staff is available but these officers do not appear among the list of persons called to give evidence. I do not know whether they did give evidence or whether they were asked whether they wished to give evidence. Those are not facts known to me. But it would appear that in view of the decisions of the Committee, based on the evidence which was placed before it by other persons, some of whom may have been in conflict with the then Minister's staff, the then Minister's staff should at least have been called before the Committee and asked questions relating to that particular evidence. I find that that much of the report that I have read appears to attempt to deal fairly with all parties. But I repeat the criticism I make- I think it is some time removed from the present Chairman- that where damaging evidence is found to be incorrect that fact should be reported immediately to the Parliament. There appears to have been at least 3 cases- not all from members of the Department- where the Committee has found subsequently that evidence given to it was not correct. If that situation goes unchallenged then parliamentary committees inquiring into these sorts of matters will have little effect at all other than possibly to be used as vehicles by people seeking to damage others. That is not a manner in which I think parliamentary committees should be used. I suggest that it is important that where a member of Parliament is named- especially where a Minister is named- to his disadvantage that he firstly should be given the opportunity to give evidence as soon as possible after that evidence has been given. If the member declines that opportunity, which he has the right to do, the consequences are his. 
Another matter that concerns me in this report is the Auditor-General's position. In his report he has cited as facts certain statements which at least have been denied by the then Minister and I think have been proven subsequently to be not wholly correct. The Auditor-General's reports have a very high standing in this Parliament and the community, and I think properly so. I make this criticism only in regard to the fact that if the reports are found to be deficient in any manner that deficiency will reflect on the standing of the total reports and the office itself. I would think that the Auditor-General has access to departmental files when those files are required. He certainly is in a position in which he can request verification. Where the secretary of a department makes statements which conflict with known statements of a Minister I do not think the Auditor-General can, as a matter of course, accept the accuracy of statements of the secretary of the department or the Minister if he is going to include them or use them as the basis of a report. I think that in such a case it is necessary for him to ascertain the accuracy of any statements prior to using them in a report which we would look on as being a factual document which is beyond reproach. 
The whole build up and execution of the events which have led to the circumstances here are extremely unfortunate. I think the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  dealt with the sorts of problems which existed in the establishment of a department of state in an area where immediate action was required and in which quite obviously some conflict between the policy directives of the Minister, no matter how given, and the department which had the responsibility of carrying them out, had taken place. I understand that some difficulties also arose from the fact that the department did not have control over its own financial affairs in the early stages- I presume that has been alteredwhich must have made for an even more uncertain and almost untenable administrative position. 
I find it hard to believe statements that the then Minister was not accessible. I would have thought that the honourable member for Wills is one of those people who, during his whole parliamentary career, had been accessible to people. He might not have been amenable to the things that were put before him, but that is not the question. The question is whether or not he was accessible. I have always found- I think most people who have had anything to do with him have found- that it was not difficult to gain access to the honourable member, whether he was Minister, back bencher, or just looking for someone to talk to. I seriously say that that allegation is very difficult for anyone who knows the honourable gentleman to take seriously, although the Secretary of the Department may well have thought that to be a fact. It would seem to me that there may have been some crossed lines in that particular circumstance. 
What I have said I have said not as a criticism of the Committee but in order to seek to protect the position of honourable members and Ministers responsible to this Parliament. I believe that the hearings and the conduct of parliamentary committees are some of the most important functions that we can carry out. But I believe that where evidence is given or statements are made which can reflect on the character competence or good conduct of a member of this Parliament and those statements are subject to publication, as was the case with the former Minister, the honourable member for Wills, firstly he should be asked as soon as possible whether he wishes to refute those statements. It is important that they not remain on the record- especially the public record- for any length of time before they are refuted. If it is found on subsequent examination or admission that statements of that nature are incorrect I believe a report to the Parliament by the Committee indicating that incorrect statements, deliberately or otherwise, have been given to the Committee about a member of Parliament should be made even though the investigation is continuing because it is important that where incorrect statements are made deliberately or otherwise- I do not make any accusations in that area- the Parliament should be advised as soon as possible after that fact becomes apparent. 
-The matter I raise tonight is one which I think should be of concern to the Parliament and certainly is one on which in my opinion, the Government has been extremely lax. Every honourable member is aware of the various problems regarding citizen band radio. I do not intend to canvass this subject tonight. But I propose to canvass the fact that at a time when the use of the equipment is illegal, at a time when there is much discussion whether this type of radio operation or communication will be legalised, the Government has taken no action to use the powers available to it to restrict the imports of this equipment. At the moment thousands upon thousands of radio sets which have become obsolete in the United States are being dumped on the Australian market. They were purchased at something like $10 but are sold in Australia for up to $200. 
These are sets which are not licensed at the moment or sets for which it is extremely difficult to obtain licences. I said earlier that I do not intend to canvass the merits or otherwise of a decision which I understand the Cabinet will take in the next fortnight. But I do suggest that it is within the Government's powers to place bans on the import of this equipment. I believe also that it is incumbent on the Government while these sets require licensing, as they do at present, to carry out advertising campaigns warning people that they must have licences to operate them. At the moment there are many thousands of people in Australia who have purchased equipment- possibly in good faith or in ignorance which is no defence to the consequences of the law- whose entry into Australia the Government has facilitated and in respect of which the Government has taken no action despite its quite definite powers to restrict the entry of this equipment. Even if it is decided to legalise CB radio, many people will find themselves with equipment which is useless. They will be in the position of operating that equipment illegally or they will have to get new equipment to replace the equipment which they have already purchased. 
-I do not think the honourable member for Kalgoorlie understands the point I am making. But if he buys any of the Melbourne and Sydney newspapers he will find reams of advertisements freely offering these sets for sale when in fact it should be incumbent on the persons advertising the sale of this equipment to advise purchasers that licences are required to operate the equipment, otherwise that operation is illegal. It is most likely too late now, but I believe it is incumbent on the Government to use its import powers to restrict entry into Australia of equipment which at this stage it is not prepared to licence for use. 
-I have already said that I am not canvassing the issues of banning CB radio or otherwise. 
-I am not talking about the merits of the situation. I am saying that there are thousands of sets available which will not be able to be used. 
-I think I have said what I set out to say, that is, that it is quite improper that these sets are freely allowed to enter Australia without restriction. I think that most honourable members who think about this subject will agree with what I have had to say. 
I raise one other matter briefly in the time available to me in this debate. It has been brought to my attention that the diabetic associations of Australia and other organisations are concerned about very strong suggestions that the Government is about to place sales tax on the sale of special foods for diabetics. I would hope that this is not true. If it is true, ask the Government to reconsider the matter. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a public statement by the Bannockburn Ratepayers' and Citizens Association that it was not party to the submission made to him by the deputation he received on 25 January 1977 from the Geelong area. 
Has he been informed that the Barrabool Hills Association also has indicated that it did not participate in the deputation. 
Did the written submission to him by the deputation name the Barrabool Hills Association, the Bannockburn Ratepayers' Association and the Bellarine Ratepayers' Association as the parties presenting the submission. 
Were each of these organisations represented in the deputation. 
Did the submission ask for his assistance to end regional planning in the Geelong area. 
Did the submission request that no Commonwealth funds be made available to Geelong for growth centre purposes, in order to assist the organisations in their efforts to end regional planning through lack of funds. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Do women have the same access to unemployment benefit as men under existing legislation? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  The Bill has some rather strange provisions. Clause 9 is one of them. It virtually provides in sub-clause (2) the power to the Attorney-General to publish a notice in the  Gazette  offering the Government 's support for a particular war. That is the only interpretation one can place on that clause. Subclause 9(1) makes illegal only foreign incursions by forces who fight against a government. There are some interesting cases which would make one wonder where they fit within the terms of this Bill. Over a considerable number of years it has been a regular practice- I do not think it could be denied that recruitment has taken place in Australia- for persons to leave Australia and join the armed forces of Israel as part of the establishment of the Jewish state and also to assist in the defence of that country against incursions by other governments. To which government do we apply sub-clause 9(2) in that case? It is a government-to-government situation, not a rebels versus government situation. 
Earlier in the night we had some mention of the International Brigade. My understanding would be that any person who joined the International Brigade in the Spanish Civil War would have been committing an offence under this legislation because Franco was in fact a rebel. One of the other areas of the Bill which seems to me to have a degree of unreality is that, it could be for instance, that the British Government would seek in Australia from British migrants who are still British citizens recruits for the British armed forces. This would appear to be outlawed by the Bill. My opinion is that whilst the Bill seeks to meet a purpose which the Opposition supports it does not necessarily meet that purpose. I make one point about paragraph 
of sub-clause 9(1). Apparently it would be quite proper under that paragraph for persons to go to Uganda to fight on the side of Idi Amin. I am not quite sure that many Australians would agree that they should do so, but he happens to be the legal government of that country and is recognised by this country as the government of that country. But it would be illegal for any person to fight in a war which sought to displace that leader. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  in an interview has indicated that in the case of Rhodesia it would be illegal to fight on either side. 
-The transcript of the interview states: 
Whether they are professional soldiers or not, if they went to Rhodesia to fight in a Rhodesian force they would be breaching this legislation. 
That is taken from the transcript of a  PM  interview. If it is incorrect I apologise to the Minister. I was relying on the accuracy of the transcript. We seem to have trouble with those sorts of quotes. We would like to know what the situation would be with Rhodesia, where the government is not recognised. A few years ago persons were recruited and trained in Australia for an expeditionary force to go to Yugoslavia to liberate Croatia. The people concerned quite firmly believed in the correctness of their cause. Quite obviously they were misled by the people who recruited them. Their action would be illegal, even though over a period of time the Government has indicated some degree of support for their cause. But under this Bill apparently if it suited the Government's foreign policy the Minister could by publication in the  Gazette  make that a legal act and therefore create a state of war between Australia and another country in this sort of circumstance. 
There are all sorts of rather bizarre possibilities under clause 9 of the Bill which I do not think we ought to be passing after the short period of study which has been given to this Bill and without a considerably greater degree of examination of the real and long term implications. The Bill does not seem to meet the purpose which its name would indicate it should meet. Certainly it would provide for a  de facto  state of war in some instances. I do not know whether the AttorneyGeneral is able to indicate whether in the IsraeliArab situation it would be legal to recruit persons to join one side and illegal to recruit people to join the other side. The Idi Amin situation is repeated in a number of places around the world where most likely it would be government policy not to support the government of the day because of its attitude or the manner in which it came to power. For instance, one would not expect a Labor government here to have much sympathy for the people in Chile who overthrew Allende. One would hope that no Australian Government would. But under this Bill, once the overthrow had taken place it would become legal for persons to go to Chile to fight against the forces of the former government which had been elected. But it would be quite illegal for persons to go to that country ana fight for what was the properly elected government before a seizure of power took place. 
Recently in Thailand we saw almost the same situation where an elected government was overthrown by the armed forces- not the first, I must say, in that country- and overnight a government was established. It then becomes illegal unless we do not recognise it or the AttorneyGeneral says that it is all right to go and fight against that government. I do not think that any politician should exercise that power. We had a situation where the elected government having been overthrown, it would be illegal to seek to support that elected government's restoration to the position to which the people had elected it. They seem to me to be contradictions in terms. I would be far happier if there were a total embargo on Australians going to fight for or against foreign governments. That may be a restriction of civil liberties but certainly it would be no more a restriction of civil liberties than it is to say that no Australians can go to Uganda to fight against Idi Amin but they can go to fight for him. That is the most obvious case that one could mention. 
The Bill does not serve the purpose which its title would indicate that it should serve. I support the amendment which seeks the withdrawal of the Bill and its redrafting so that it meets this purpose of banning foreign incursions. If Australia is at war or is involved in an international action of any description in which the government of the day considers that the country should be involved, the government of the day has ample powers to involve itself in that situation. I do not believe that we should, as clause 9 states, be in a situation where we can be involved  in &amp; de facto  situation either by a notice published in the  Gazette  or by persons being recruited to join the armies of another country supporting the government. That is as much as participating in a civil war, and the notice of it in the  Gazette  would be an impossible situation in any foreign policy. If the Government is not prepared to support one side or the other as a part of foreign polley I would be very surprised if any notice were published in the  Gazette  by the Attorney-General saying: 'If people want to go and fight for the government of, say, Israel or Syria- both countries' are likely to be involved -or one of the 2 claimants to government in some country where there is a disputed government, that is all right; the Government supports their fighting on one side but the Government does not involve itself. Clause 9 is a contradiction in terms. It certainly does not fulfil what the Bill suggests it is intended to fulfil. If bans are to be placed on Australians going as mercenaries to fight in other countries the bans should be total and not restricted in the manner in which they are there. There is nothing which could stop a person from leaving Australia and being recruited into the army of any country if he so desires. The Act would apply only on his return to Australia. 
I raise again the other problem which I see in the legislation and that is that there are numerous nationals of other countries in Australia who could well be recruited to join the armed forces of another country even though they have permanent residence here. There are Australian citizens who are in exactly this situation. For instance, if a Greek citizen returns to Greece he could be liable for military service. If he has taken out Australian citizenship he would find himself in the situation of being in breach of this legislation by carrying out an obligation for which, if he fails to carry it out, he would be imprisoned in that country. Other European governments do the same thing. 
-That is the way the Bill reads. I suggest that the Bill does not meet the requirements that even the Minister would put on it. It ought to be given careful examination because once it is passed by this Parliament it is highly unlikely that it will be returned for reexamination. 1 do not think that anything like adequate time has been given for proper study of the effects of the Bill. Certainly a week is not long enough in which to obtain adequate legal opinion on the meanings of some of the clauses. Irrespective of how good it is, I am certain that the Government could not have drafted the Bill in the time that is left for its examination in detail. 
I want to raise with the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  only one or two things. A couple of amendments have been suggested tonight. He indicated that they would be moved in the Committee of the Whole of the Senate. Some things were raised earlier with the Minister from this side of the House during the debate. I hope that he will look at those arguments in retrospect and outside the context of the parliamentary debate, to ensure that the Bill meets the purpose which the Government intends it to meet. The Opposition obviously had and has some doubts about the application of the 
Bill and would seek the Attorney-General's assurance in this matter that another examination of those points will be made in order that we can be certain that the Bill carries out the functions for which it is intended. 
If this was not a serious subject I think the remarks of the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  would be laughable. The former member for Denison in fact convinced the former Labor Government not only to transfer the base, against the strong opposition of senior personnel in the Antarctic Division, but also against the normal trend of moving this type of operation outside the major capital cities on the mainland. It is probably the first major operation to have been transferred to Tasmania. It is one of at least two which have been transferred, the other being the Maritime College. I want to make one other point. There has been a delay of 16 months in this matter. This project was referred to the Public Works Committee in 1975 prior to the fall of the Whitlam Labor Government, the coup. The time for the hearings had been set but the hearings were not held because of the deferment of Supply in another place and because funds were not available to the Parliament to finance travel by any parliamentary committee. I was one of the people responsible for making the rather difficult decision that parliamentary committees could not spend money on travel during the period in which the Parliament did not have funds available to it, like other government services, because of the doubt about the passage of Supply. 
-The first decision that was made was merely a decision on a piece of paper. It is then necessary, before a matter can be referred to the Public Works Committee, for the necessary drawings, documentation and other decisions to be taken. This was completed in 1975, including the choice of a site. The honourable member for Denison, during the period of the blockage of Supply, made a feature of complaining in Tasmania about the absolute urgency for the hearings to take place. When he was a member of the Opposition, the hearings had to take place immediately but since this Government has been elected it has taken 16 months to refer the matter. With regard to alternative sites, it is within the ambit of the Public Works Committee, if requested, to examine suggested alternative sites. That could have been included in the hearings had the Government wished. I wish to make one other point. The reference to the Public Works Committee does not necessarily mean the construction of the base. The Public Works Committee some 2 years ago concluded its hearings on the National Animal Health Laboratories which are to be constructed at Geelong. I understand that the Government has not changed that decision but to date funds have not been allocated for that purpose and until they are the decision of the Public Works Committee is just that. It is an approval so it may well be another 2 years or more before funds are available. It may not be. I hope it is not. 
The other thing I put before the House is that the attitude of the Prime Minister in answers to questions on matters such as this has been that he does not believe in the transfer of public servants compulsorily, although I notice he is now transferring them to Canberra and AlburyWodonga compulsorily. But in respect of areas where projects have been allocated to nonmetropolitan areas almost without fail they have been cancelled on the basis that transfers to those areas are undesirable. Transfers to Canberra continue. Transfers of public servants to AlburyWodonga, which is the only non-metropolitan area which is getting a go at the moment, also continue. I hope this project goes ahead quickly. I do not believe that expenditure of the type which is necessary for such a project is a drain on the capacity of the Treasury to meet costs, and in many cases it is a saving. In the case of the National Animal Health Laboratories the cost of the project is going up by at least $ I m per month while the project is delayed. So the Government will pay anything up to double the originally proposed cost because of a couple of years delay. The cost to the Treasury in the early stage will be $5m to $10m a year, which is not a great deal and not more than is spent on some things which are far less urgent. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Prime Minister making an immediate statement setting out in specific terms the guidelines of the wages-price freeze which he indicates has been in effect for at least 5 days, and specifically whether primary products, perishable goods, imports, tariff charges and the flow-on of the March indexation decision which have been the subject of conflicting statements by the Prime Minister, State Premiers and Federal Ministers are involved in the freeze, and under what circumstances and by what means prices control will be implemented and maintained. 
I move this motion at this time because it is obvious that there is rank confusion in the community. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to make a statement. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Is the entire coastal area from Angelsea to Geelong endangered by land developers seeking to destroy regional planning in order to subdivide beach and natural forest areas. 
Is there a lack of funds to purchase and hold land for environmental and conservation purposes. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the concern of persons who had fencing destroyed in the recent bushfires in Victoria because of the substantial difference in compensation of 25 per cent available in respect of internal fences compared with 100 percent for external boundary fences. 
If so, does this procedure take no account of need or the relevant levels of loss. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, on 22 March 1977, upon notice: 
1 ) Was the decision to reduce the telegram rate in remote areas from 12c to 9c made at Government direction or ministerial suggestion. 
If so, will the Government compensate Telecom for the cost of this change. 
Is this reduction likely to increase losses on telegram operations. If so, by what sum. 
Will the reduction result in a further increase in telegram charges to those persons without a private telephone. 
-I submit the motion in writing. I do not intend to speak to it. I think the arguments for such a statement being made were given yesterday. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Corio be not further heard. 
-by leave-The Opposition does not object to the altered sitting days although it does draw attention to the fact that some extremely major legislation is set down for debate during the period following the date of the referendum. It is only because of the referendum that we do not object to the sitting week being cancelled. We doubt very much that, even with the addition of 2 sitting days, proper time will be available to debate the legislation in those 2 weeks. I suggest to the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  that at this stage he ought to make plans for sitting at least one additional week because I cannot see the House dealing adequately in 8 sitting days with the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, the Trade Practices Bill, which has been foreshadowed, and the double taxation Bills also foreshadowed, and indicated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as Bills to be passed by the House in this session. 
I think that the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  might take note of the Government's programs- the pre-apprenticeship training - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question put. 
That the motion  (Mr Willis's)  be agreed to. 
-I should like to say a couple of things about the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Amendment Bill. The honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  mentioned shifting employment from one city to another. A substantial proportion of employment in the tractor industry is in the area I represent in Geelong where the International Harvester Co. is situated. I do not want to be in the  position of  supporting any particular company but I suggest that there are good reasons that Australia's production, even though it is only on a limited basis, should be maintained. I do not think the protection that is necessary to maintain that industry is necessarily to the disadvantage of the purchaser. He does not have to pay the cost of the protection. In other cases he may have to do so. A market presence has some validity as a control factor. Those areas where there is no local market presence tend to suffer from what the market can bear. If there is no control over the market place by some intervention purchasers are likely to be held to ransom and what appears to be an attractive price at which goods can be obtained is not necessarily so attractive. I would only add that bounties are a very nice form of assistance in that they are obviously visible and they do not add to the purchase price. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  and certainly the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  would not see this as a form of protection that can be extended  ad infinitum.  Bounties are a charge on revenue whereas tariffs are a revenue item. One cannot be extended without having at least the other or some substitute for it. 
The proposals in the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Amendment Bill constitute a rundown of existing protection. There have been no complaints from either side of the industry, so I can assume at this stage that the industry believes it has obtained, not necessarily what it wants, but all it can get. I ask the Minister that over the period the Bill is in operation it be monitored very carefully because situations in these industries can change very quickly, usually to the detriment of local industry and very rarely to its advantage, and dumping is not an unusual thing. The tractor industry in Australia is vulnerable and, as I said before, I think that it is an essential industry. The monitoring of the Bill will be worth while, even if it allows only for some control in the market place of prices which can be charged and gives us some say in our marketing and style of goods. 
In relation to the Automatic Data Processing Equipment Bounty Bill, there is a very large potential development in this area and in associated areas. Recently, not in this area but very close to it a question has arisen in relation to orders by Telecom for telex equipment. A very substantial order is in the pipeline for about $182m worth of data equipment. In the instance of the contract which has been let- I make this point because it is important- the letting of the contract apparently has not altered the Australian content in the long term but it has altered the Australian content in the short term. There will be no Australian content in the first 4 years of the contract. At the end of that period there is a guaranteed Australian content, but there will be a transfer of employment from a firm in Melbourne which has already had the technical capacity to a firm in Sydney which, I think, at this stage still has to acquire the technical capacity. 
I make the point that it is not only the protection of an industry or the setting up of an industry in Australia which is involved. If industries are to operate there must be some long term future for the skills which are necessary to be developed. As well as a bounty or other forms of protection there should also be some consideration of continuity. I do not enter into the argument of the contract already let. I have an idea that some of the contract in the Telecom area which has not been let will be let to a firm called Seimens, I think it is. 
The point I make is that if short term usage of the bounty is to be the result, then industry as such will be the loser in terms of the continuity, the skills and the technical developments required for such an industry to continue to operate. I think that that is the case in relation to the Telecom contracts. I have not studied the contracts, but I do know that extreme concern has been expressed by the Electrical Trades Union in the Melbourne metropolitan area that an industry already existing will be run down and in 4 years' time a new industry to carry out the same processes and bring about the same average employment in Australia will be established. That does not seem to me to be in the best interests of the long term activities in the market place or of Australian productivity. 
There are a number of things one could say about what tariffs are best. I do not think that they are relevant at this time, but I ask the Minister to give serious consideration to monitoring the market place. I ask also that a much closer watch be kept, not necessarily in this area but in other areas, on the effects of quotas and tariffs. 
Finally, I could say that some considerable time ago I took up with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs and the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  problems in a number of textile firms and garment makers relating to the changed quotas which had been announced. Some 8 weeks have passed, I think, and I have not been able to obtain answers from the Minister for Industry and Commerce on these questions. A large number of people have lost their employment, and at least one firm has closed while these answers have been awaited, and the future of other firms is extremely doubtful. I think it is important not only that the Government should be seen to be concerned about this situation but that it should be seen to be active and able to react forthwith. I understand that the Minister acts in these areas only where he has advice from the Department of Industry and Commerce. I suggest that the Department is extremely slow in its reactions and far too slow in areas of crisis. I draw that matter to the attention of the House because it is of serious concern to any member who represents an area of limited industrial capacity and limited employment opportunities. I will not press the point at this stage, but at another time I intend to make some much stronger remarks about the lack of response from the Department of Industry and Commerce on this question. 
-We have seen crocodile tears in this House on many occasions and we have just seen the greatest dose ever. The National Party controls every newspaper, radio and television station in the area. I suggest that any member of the Labor Party would get a mention in only the obituary notices in that area. The speech we have just heard about someone who obviously put together a directory was made by an honourable member from New South Wales, not the honourable member for the area mentioned, to try to denigrate some community service and something which is also of some benefit to a particular organisation. One wonders how many similar directories are being put out by organisations and how many publications are being put out, especially from the office of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at the moment, with Commonwealth money to mislead the Aus.tralian public into believing some of the fallacious and ridiculous supposed policies being put forward by this Government. 
-Is the Treasurer aware that provisional tax assessments are being sent to persons with investment income as low as $400? Is he also aware that this involves retired persons who invest lump sum superannuation payments and others in paying provisional tax in the first year of their retirement which substantially reduces their income during that period? Is the Treasurer aware that at the age of retirement, such people cannot necessarily afford to defer that income for that period? Will he examine the level at which provisional tax is applied, as it would appear to be abnormally low, and have a more realistic limit placed on that provision? 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent a statement of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition being tabled and incorporated in  Hansard. 
I move the motion for suspension of Standing Orders because I believe that where a Minister, especially the Prime Minister, incorrectly or incompletely quotes a statement by a member of this House, some entitlement must exist for the full statement to be read by those persons who will read part of the statement in an answer. It has become a practice- today there have been 2 examples of it- to use selective quoting to distort statements made by members of the Opposition. This practice also occurs with regard to statements made by Ministers but Ministers have rights in this House which are not available to ordinary members, that is, the right to table documents. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition believes and has indicated, by seeking to have this document given wider distribution, that he has been misquoted and that his statements have been distorted by the Prime Minister. This would not be unusual. I suggest that there is no just reason why honourable members on the Government side of the chamber, if they believe that the Prime Minister in answer to a question today has properly quoted and stated opinions which they hold on the statement of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, should not be prepared to allow that statement to be published by tabling and incorporation in  Hansard.  It can only be interpreted that they are seeking to prevent its publication and incorporation because they believe the Prime Minister has distorted its contents in his answer to a question. The suspension of Standing Orders in these circumstances to allow this procedure is important to the democratic process. 
Unfortunately the Prime Minister in his answer also indicated that the only persons entitled to participate in political debate or to oppose Government policy are those persons who sit in the Parliament in Opposition. He has indicated clearly that he does not believe, and his Government does not believe, that persons outside the Parliament have any right other than to express a triennial vote at elections. That is what he has just said to this House. But I believe that the House owes itself a duty to have a contrary point of view incorporated in its documentation. That is what this motion is all about. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition may or may not have been misquoted by the Prime Minister. Certainly he is entitled to have the full statement, part of which has been quoted by the Prime Minister, incorporated in  Hansard  so that those persons examining the Prime Minister's statement will be fully aware of what the Prime Minister has been talking about. If the Prime Minister's statement is a distortion of the facts he will be exposed for what he has said and the methods by which he has sought to gain political capital. If they are not distorted his statement will have added weight. I find it difficult to understand the fear which exists on the other side of the Parliament of having a statement which has been quoted at length by the Prime Minister incorporated in  Hansard  for public view. 
I want to raise a matter which must be of serious concern to most members of this House. We have been told over a considerable period of time of the efficiency with which the Public Service has been able to operate despite staff cuts. I would suggest that some of the Public Service departments in which staff ceilings have been rigidly, or more than rigidly, applied have reached a point of collapse as far as service is concerned. The public is suffering because of the way in which staff ceilings have been applied. It seems to me that if the Public Service Board is advising the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in respect of the statements he is making it is doing so from an ivory tower mentality and not on a practical basis of the actual effect of staff ceilings and the manner in which they are being applied, which is quite irrational and has no respect for efficiency or any other criteria. 
This problem has quite a number of segments to it. For instance, it has been brought to my notice that Telecom Australia is now contracting out its typing work to Drake International, the most expensive organisation in Australia with which to have contract work done. Telecom has done this because it does not have sufficient staff in this area. The Department of Social Security has had to contract out its computer programming because it does not have sufficient staff to carry out this function itself. Waiting periods of up to 14 weeks are becoming regular in the child endowment processing section of the Department in Victoria and complicated cases are taking longer to be satisfied. People are being asked to wait by Public Service departments which are under-manned, especially in the technical area, sometimes due to staff being on annual leave or maternity leave, or other forms of leave. The Public Service is not able to perform efficiently because of staff cuts resulting from staff ceilings. The rigidity of staff ceilings has cut the level of administrative efficiency. There is also the serious problem that work which is required to be done, such as the processing and analysis and comment on documentation which should go before senior public servants in a refined form, is not able to be done. There is also the serious problem that public counter services and other public services are reaching a breakdown point. For instance, people who urgently need to be naturalised can expect to have their applications processed by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs within a reasonable period. A 'reasonable period' is defined as being a year, which seems to me to be an exorbitantly long period for persons wishing to become Australians to be held up. 
As I have said, near breakdown conditions exist in the Department of Social Security. Officers of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations face a hopeless task in seeking to match job vacancies to persons and to counsel persons who need counselling. This is not a quick process. It is one which often needs much time. But the staff is not available to undertake these tasks. 
We hear a lot of nonsense, such as that which the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  by way of constant interjection, has been trying to put. We have heard abuse of officers of the Public Service. My experience has been that officers, especially those who deal with the public, work very hard. Despite what some people outside Parliament and some people in this place might suggest, these officers are very conscientious in the work that they perform. But they are only able to do what is physically possible as individuals or as a group in any one day. It might interest the honourable member for Riverina to know, as a former Army officer, that the audit section of the Army has reached the stage where some files which it has ordered will never be found again because the staff is not available to return them from the places in which they are located. 
-I think that the Army's efficiency went up very greatly when the honourable member was elected to this Parliament. I am not sure what other measures can be taken to help. But I am making a serious charge and I suggest that it is about time that we looked at the reality of the situation rather than the public relations side of it. 
-Earlier in this debate, the National Country Party Whip, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  interjected to suggest that whilst the Labor Government had initiated the National Animal Health Laboratories program- that is not quite correct- and had advanced the program to the stage where construction was ready to commence, it had not in fact constructed the Laboratories. It was an inane comment and one which I think was made more in automatic response than with real thought. At the end of 1971, the Laboratories had reached the stage where their construction had been approved by the Parliamentary Public Works Committee. Parliamentary approval for the work had been granted. The planning and design were in hand and are still proceeding extremely slowly. Contracts were about to be let for the preparation of the site. My understanding is that it is an eight year to ten year construction job. To suggest that the project having started in 1973 should have been completed by 1 975 is inane. 
However, that is not the main reason for my rising to speak in this debate. On Tuesday in this House I raised with the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  the question of provisional tax being charged in respect of persons who reared with a lump sum amount and who invested that amount in order to receive income. The income on which provisional tax is levied is $400 a year or $8 a week. In current terms, the amount invested could be as low as $3,500, $3,750 or $4,000, depending on where the money was placed. I suggest that it is an impost to charge a retired person, who has only limited income other than that amount, 2 years' tax in one at the time of or immediately following his retirement. 
There are 2 reasons why I suggest that this action is an impost. The first is that the person concerned is not a business firm which is likely to go out of business at the end of the year and therefore will be unable to pay the tax. That is one of the theoretical reasons for provisional tax being paid in advance. The second is that a person loses his income or a proportion of his income during the year in which he earns it and has to pay in advance tax which should not be taken in advance. It may be that provisions should exist, where necessary, for payasyouearn taxation deductions to be made, but certainly it is an unfair impost on retired persons to charge provisional tax on incomes from amounts they received at the time of their retirement or on savings which they accumulated for use during their retirement as income would be used. A person who retires at 60 to 65 years of age has a relatively short life expectancy. To ask that person to accept a considerably reduced standard of living, bearing in mind the reduced standard normally applying to retired persons, by the impost of provisional tax is, I think, something at which the Government ought to look. It ought to alter the provisions to provide a more reasonable frame. I am not sure whether this action is within the competence of the Commissioner of Taxation. Certainly it is within the competence of the Government to alter the practice either by regulation, direction or legislation if necessary. The fact is that the amount of only $400 is involved. The Commissioner of Taxation is serving provisional tax notices on persons with very low incomes and who are retired and dependent on those incomes. That action is an impost. If an amount of $4000 is invested, I do not think there would be any difficulty in the Commissioner of Taxation getting his funds from the estate, if it came to that. 
I should like to raise one other matter. I think it is of serious consequence to this Parliament and to what the parliamentary institution stands for. During question time on Tuesday, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a statement on what he sees as the rights of persons to oppose government decisions and government policies. I suggest that that statement is most likely the narrowest interpretation of the rights of individuals in a democratic society ever made by any person supposedly holding a responsible office. The statement quite clearly says that the only persons entitled to express opposition to Government policies or Government actions are the elected members of Parliament. The remainder of the community's rights are restricted to voting once every 3 years or as often as an election occurs. 
-I suggest that the honourable member reads what was put in this House by the Prime Minister as a statement of his Government's policy. I do not think the honourable member would allow them to vote. In a democratic society governments are elected and, depending upon their maintenance of a majority in the Parliament, they govern. The community has every right to express its disapproval of government decisions, actions or inactions. That is a right which must exist and one which the democratic process is dependent upon. Opinion forming is a process in which every individual has a right to participate. Dissent is a right which every individual has and must be allowed to maintain. 
Any honourable member who reads what the Prime Minister said in this House will see quite clearly that he disagrees with that proposition and that, on behalf of the present Government of Australia, he has said that those rights do not exist. I am quite sure that the honourable members on the other side of the Parliament on whose behalf this statement has been made do not realise what it says. For that purpose I will read exactly what the Prime Minister said in answer to a question in this House on Tuesday and said as a statement of government policy. He said that it has always been the view of his Government and the Government Parties that democratic opposition must operate within the parliamentary forum in the proper democratic manner, that his Government does not believe that politics ought to be taken to the streets, as do quite a number of people on the Opposition benches of the House and as they practised on a previous occasion, and that the Government believes very strongly that the proper democratic forum- that is, the election of people at elections- is the way in which to see who ought to govern and the nature of the opposition itself. That is a very narrow statement. It can only be interpreted as I have already suggested it should be interpreted. 
We most likely still would have had troops in Vietnam if people had not taken to the streets. People took to the streets peacefully and protested against what they considered to be improper government policies. People have opposed a great variety of the accepted norms of governments over a long period of time. Many of those protests were extremely unpopular in the initial stages and politicians did not take up the causes involved for the simple reason that they were afraid of the reaction of the community or the criticism of the Press. In retrospect, some of those decisions have become accepted norms. The Prime Minister made a statement a few days ago about politics and sport which would have resulted in hands being thrown up in horror only a couple of years ago- even 12 months ago when the International Olympic Committee was demanding that it had the exclusive right to apply political norms to politics rather than the governments of the countries concerned. 
This is a serious question. It is one of which this House has to take note and it is one of which the people of Australia have to take note. In the opinion of the Prime Minister opposition to government policy is not allowed by the people of the country except at the ballot box and they do not get regular opportunities to go to the ballot box. But that is not always the place where opposition can be readily expressed because there is a multitude of decisions to be made in casting a ballot and individual and sometimes minority views do not hold sway. I think the most serious thing that a government of a country can suggest is that those people who do not happen to be a part of the majority at the time and who do not have the privilege of being members of Parliament are not entitled to express any forms of opinion opposed to the government of the day. It is a serious question the consequences of which would be the total destruction of the democratic way of life that we at least believe we enjoy. I would suggest that the Prime Minister and supporters of the Government ought to look seriously at the statement that the Prime Minister made in this House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I want to deal substantially with the approach to economic problems and the damage which is done by treating these problems as political propaganda weapons rather than as serious national problems. In the last fortnight, for instance, we have been almost snowed under by a public relations barrage about a price-wage freeze. On Tuesday last week the Opposition moved in this House to suspend the Standing Orders to enable the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to make a firm statement on the guidelines and procedures under which that price-wage freeze was to operate. The Government refused to do so. It promised on that occasion to make a statement but it subsequently did not make the statement. The Prime Minister then came into the house and made a statement which in no way indicated the guidelines, what was expected of people or how the government saw the price-wage freeze operating. Clearly, it was a set of words which had no basis in fact. It is still a set of words with no basis in fact. 
The Government does not have a clue how it would manage or operate such a price-wage freeze. I suggest that the way to achieve that type of approach, which is expected to be cooperative and which needs not only the vocal but also the active support of the majority of people in Australia and all sections of the Australian community, is to be honest with people, to tell them what is wanted, to tell them what the problem is and to ask them to assist. In that instanceand this week we have seen further evidence- a decision was made almost over a cup of tea. The Government went into the Premier's Conference with a number of items listed. One of them was the federalism proposition on State taxes. This is one of the panaceas of all time for this Government. In opposition, federalism was said to mean State co-operation and State independence. The States are finding out that independence has only one meaning, that they pick up the tabs for those things for which the Commonwealth decides it does not want to pay or for which it does not support continuation. That is a pretty broad field. Some of those areas were fairly clearly undertaken to be continued by the present Government during the period leading up to the 1975 election and during the election campaign. 
I instance one, the Australian Assistance Plan, which is about to die a natural death. This will recentralise activities in social welfare which had been decentralised very effectively into the control and operation of the local community in a number of" areas, especially in my electorate. That is now to be put back into the extremely centralist control of the Victorian State Government. In the main, State governments are more centralist than the Federal Government, despite the propaganda to the contrary. Education, which had been substantially depoliticised by the establishment of the Schools Commission, and criteria whereby recommendations were made and the government of the day then had to make decisions as to what extent it would fund those recommendations, are now about to disappear insofar as they are public information or subject to public examination and suggestions as to what expenditure should take place. It is pretty clear that under this Government secrecy will again prevail in reports to the Government and in School Commission reports. The reasoning behind them will no longer be available to the Australian community and Government decisions will again take on the cloak of all wisdom because any criticism of an authoritative nature will not be available for the public to examine. 
This technique was carried on successfully for many years. In the 3 years of the Labor Government and for a period thereafter reports important for the public to understand, such as Tariff Board reports and a number of other reports, including the Schools Commission reports, were made public so that people understood the advice given to the Government and the reasoning for that advice. When the Government's decision was different to that advice, the Government was then placed in a position where it had to indicate quite clearly the reasons for its political judgment. If the advice of the experts is withheld the Government does not have to explain its decision. It has only to announce it. That makes for very easy government. It makes for a greater lack of responsibility on the part of the Government. In the situation which has occurred in the last 2 weeks it has now been unravelled that the whole truth was not told to the community or the Parliament with respect to the price-wage freeze. Firstly, the Premier of Victoria very definitely included tax cuts in his initial propositions. The Prime Minister and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  prevailed upon him not to proceed with that particular proposition as it would cause embarrassment to the Commonwealth. The price-wage freeze was announced- and I say announced- as voluntary following which the Prime Minister moved immediately to have a compulsory freeze on wages accompanied by a partial freeze on prices. Partial is the operative word. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  made it quite clear the day after that he did not think the price freeze applied to primary products and perishable goods because that would be impossible. I tend to agree with him on that statement. I cannot see how at an auction of cattle for instance, a seller could suddenly jump up, when the price looked like being good that day and would make up for his losses the day before, and say: 'Sorry, that is the limit. The price freeze is there. I will not sell my cattle any dearer.' I think that he would be locked up if he did. Similarly, I cannot see - 
-That might be true, but I could not see even the honourable member for Wakefield, if he looked like getting a decent price for his cattle for once in a year, standing up and saying: 'That is too much. ' He may even pay off some of his debts that way. 
-I could not see one of the South Australian tomato growers, who grow for the early or late market in Victoria under conditions which must certainly attract costs which are greater than those for the grower who grows for the normal seasonal market saying: 'Well, I am prepared to accept the seasonal glut price, as opposed to the price which I would have expected.' These are real factors and they are factors which ought at least to have been explained to people. The Minister made a statement but the Prime Minister came into the house last week and said: 'No. Everybody is in.' Quite clearly that was not a truthful statement and it was not a statement which had any practical base whatsoever. 
I make one other point. The whole exercise needed the co-operation not only of the employers, who had certain motivation because they were going to get out of it stable wages, which they claim is very important to them and also stable costs which the government had promised, but also of the trade unions who had to have some guarantees that their position would be protected. The people who work for a living in this community are just as entitled to have their position protected as those people for whom they work. The trade unions were not consulted and were not brought into the discussion. There was no attempt made to have discussion with them in the week following the announcement. The wage-price freeze was said to be in existence on the day after it was announced but the trade unions were listed to talk to the Government about this matter a week later. A week after the freeze came into existence the Government asks for co-operation. Applications had already been made to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for a compulsory wage freeze. That is not the way to get co-operation. The call by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for a national conference, which was part of the submission to the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and the proposition of tax cuts in return for wage restraint were at least negotiable positions which should have been discussed. I doubt whether the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission could have made a lesser decision than to ask for a national conference and still retain any credibility whatsoever as an independent wage fixing and condition determining body. But the Prime Minister immediately set out on a course of abusing the trade union movement and its leadership because they sought to discuss the matter in a manner which would have enabled them to give serious consideration to whether they could participate. 
One does not blindfold oneself and then walk through a maze of poison ivy. That is the sort of maze anyone who walks into anything suggested by the Prime Minister is likely to be in. The Prime Minister continually suggested that the Government wanted an agreement in principle. He has a habit of accepting such statements and then expanding them and placing a different interpretation on them. He has access to the public media which enables him to place on the defensive any person who would give such an undertaking and then find that he was not able to keep it. The Prime Minister, if he wanted a voluntary wages-prices freeze, had a serious responsibility to the Australian community to talk to all the parties concerned before he started hitting with brickbats. That is where the crunch comes. The Prime Minister saw this not as an opportunity to advance the economic position of the country or the national interest but rather to advance his political needs and those of his Government. That is why co-operation is difficult, if not impossible, to gain. One cannot continue to seek to divide the nation, to blame a section of the community, which at the moment even the statistics prove is carrying the major portion of the sacrifices of the Government's economic policy, and expect that section to cooperate when it is not consulted, no discussions are sought or held and it is asked by the leadership of the Government on public forums under threat to give agreement to a plan which the Prime Minister was not able to outline in this 
Parliament; nor has he yet been able to outline any significant details. 
The wages-prices freeze was a farce drawn up and seized upon for one or two reasons. I think the major reason was to avoid the indexation case which would arise out of the March quarter cost of living figures, which were not as bad as the Government anticipated. 
Well, they were not as bad as the Government anticipated and possibly the fears of the Government were not as warranted as they might have been. But the facts of the matter are that by avoiding that March indexation increase the Government would have effectively frozen wages for 2 months and further reduced the standard of living of those people who depend upon Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decisions. The Commonwealth Treasury- no one seems to have mentioned this, not even the Prime Minister who talks about the losses if he were to give tax concessionswould have a substantial saving if that indexation increase were not granted because the increase would go on to the bills for the Commonwealth Public Service. The figure of 2.3 per cent attached to the Commonwealth Public Service bill would be a substantial amount of money which would be saved by the Commonwealth and which therefore could at least be used by the Government, without increasing its deficit, as a bargaining position on tax concessions or some other forms of concession to meet some of the objections which exist and which were asked to be discussed at a national conference. If the Prime Minister has seriously considered a voluntary wages-prices freeze a reality he has already dropped the ball because he chose politics ahead of national interest and he is still choosing politics ahead of national interest. 
The Victorian oil dispute, which the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions was able to negotiate to a settlement and which most likely should have been settled a lot earlier by the same process, resulted not in any congratulations for the  President  for participating in and achieving a settlement of this dispute but straight out abuse from the Prime Minister and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  The reason for that abuse was that they felt they had been cheated of their victory. They wanted an industrial confrontation situation which would justify the establishment of the Industrial Relations Bureau which they are about to set up as a policeman, along with the trade union section of the Australian Security 
Intelligence Organisation which this Government has reactivated, to spy on and to act as  agent provocateurs  within the trade union movement. They needed that situation for political purposes, to continue their campaign of divisiveness within the Australian community. They have not had that, therefore we get the reaction of abuse of the  President  of the ACTU. 
It is strange that in this community whenever an employer organisation makes demands on the Government- when for instance the Premier of Victoria suggests tax cuts- whilst they are not acceptable to the Government they are at least considered to be responsible suggestions. But when they are made by the people who pay the majority of taxes- the people who are making the sacrifices- they are irresponsible, mean or straight out unco-operative. The Government cannot expect co-operation and national effort in economic proposals it puts forward unless it is prepared to put those policies forward honestly and without deception. That is something that no one in this Parliament at this moment could say that the Prime Minister does. He is a double standard man from way back. He says one thing but he practises another. I think that if any national effort is ever to be gained, unity of purpose is the most important single factor. But whilst people know they are being deceived and that the double standard is being practised there will not be that unity. It is interesting that the Prime Minister does not acknowledge any responsibility at all for the problems that the Government is having with the deficit. I think most of us who are interested know why the budgetary problems exist at the moment and why the Government has to carry out a policy of absolute wage freeze. It is not interested in price freeze; wage freeze is what it is all about. 
A price freeze you have not got. Your are fooling yourself if you think prices have not been going up in the community this week and last week. You are fooling yourself. You ought to do you own shopping at the supermarkets. Then you would know. You obviously do not know. The housewives do, I can assure you. I am concerned, and I think all of us are concerned, about this double standard. If cooperation is to be obtained it has to be obtained on the basis of honesty. The reason for the budgetary problem which the Prime Minister now finds confronting him is his own lack of judgment and refusal to accept advice. At the time of the drafting of the 1976 Budget it was clearly spelt out to the Prime Minister that he could not responsibly make the sort of concessions which he did to mining and other companies and hope to contain the deficit. He did not accept that advice and more than $ 1 ,000m worth of concessions were granted in the Budget to sections of the Australian community which were, and are still, prosperous and which did not have the need for this assistance that other sections of the community have. These concessions have been paid for by reductions in the welfare area and community expenditures. They are now to be paid for finally by freezes on wages of those persons least able to afford to meet the cost. Nearly $2,000m in costs because of forgone revenue and other effects such as devaluation were created by direct Government decision. If there are problems in the budgetary situation at the moment they are a result of misplanning by this Government directed by the present Prime Minister. He seeks to blame others for his own mistakes. Trust cannot be built on that sort of deception. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
What contribution has the Australian Government made to international disaster relief operations in each of the last 5 years. 
What grants were made for relief for victims of natural disasters in each of the last 5 years. 
-Crocodile tears flow very strangely from the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  The leaking of documents was not of concern to him when his Party was in Opposition and when not only were documents being leaked but also the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that he could see nothing wrong with the leaking of documents where such leaking exposed deficiencies in governments or Ministers. 
-That was a statement by the honourable member's leader and that is what is important in this instance. 
-At least we can say in this House that if honesty were part of the Government'' policies, which it is not, the Prime Minister could deal with the Treasury officials known to him who leaked confidential documents to the Liberal Party of Australia at that time. He will not do that because they committed a political service for him. That is not what this debate is all about. The charges that the Government makes, including the most stupid one made yesterday by the Prime Minister that a certain document which appeared in the  Canberra Times  could be identified as having been leaked by certain marks which were on the document and which happened to have been put on it by the journalist who wrote the article, are the sort of thing we are coming to expect from this Government as proof of accusations that are totally baseless. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  in defence of the Government's position on this matter, made what unfortunately was a palpably inadequate defence of Australia's rights or Australia's capacity. He said that we can do nothing about the activities of foreign security organisations in Australia. He said that in 1945, 1946 and 1947 the then Prime Minister, Attorney-General and Minister for Foreign Affairs said that security was a matter of security. I would suggest that at that time the range of activities of security organisations and their capacity was considerably less than it is now. Since that time at least one international security organisation has participated in the overthrow of governments in Chile, Cambodia and Thailand. The security organisations of the Left, as honourable members opposite would call them- of the communist bloc-have participated in the overthrow of governments more numerous than will be elaborated upon in this debate. The facts are that security organisations now are not just collectors of information; they are political exponents that will seek wherever necessary to ensure the existence of a government that will pander to their needs and promote policies within their requirements. 
The Minister for Defence made out a case that the Parliament was incapable and should not be allowed to participate in an examination of the activities of these organisations in Australia. I suggest that we ought to look at the situation in the United States. Parliamentary supervision of security organisations is possible. It is not a grandstanding exercise, as the honourable member for Isaacs would have us believe. It is in fact part of the responsibilities of the Congress of the United States to oversee that country's security organisations and the excesses of one of them have been curbed because of an investigation carried out by the Congress of the United States. The basis of the argument that parliamentary supervision is not possible is a basis of an argument that Parliament itself cannot be trusted with the security of the country. There are at least indications that information important to the Government and the security of this country was withheld from Ministers because security organisations chose to act as censors of the information. 
This Parliament, in the same way as the United States Congress, is capable of oversight without theatricals. It is capable of being informed on activities. I am sure that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  for instance, would like to be able to be informed reliably- not by rumour or innuendo- on the activities of security agents from Yugoslavia and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and other security agents in Australia. Certainly the protection of the government elected by the people of Australia is something about which this Parliament has a right to know and in which it has a right to be involved. If a security organisation is going to seek to overthrow the government of Australia or place it in a position in which it has to pursue policies designated by another country the Parliament is entitled to know. 
The people of Australia do not elect the security services, they do not control them and they know nothing whatsoever about their activities. The Parliament is entitled to some scrutiny, especially over those areas of security activities that impinge upon the civil liberties of individuals and the private activities of persons in their business and work affairs. We are not talking about disclosing information that would endanger the security of the nation. The facts are that the capacity exists in Australia, almost certainly in more than one embassy, for almost every telephone conversation going out of Canberra to be tapped without any difficulties whatsoever. The capacity exists in Australia for overseas agents to involve themselves in the affairs of this country in a manner that could alter political events. They can change the management of private business organisations, trade unions or other organisations by the use of funds or other methods. The control of the infrastructure in this country can be changed by a security service that has access, and security services do have access, to monitoring devices and other forms of media control that influence people. They can also involve themselves in blackmail if necessary. 
Allegations are currently being made that foreign security funds were used to undermine one political party and fund another in Australia. That certainly happened in Chile and Australian security organisations were certainly involved in that exercise. It certainly happened in Cambodia, and there is at least a suspicion that Australian security operatives were involved in the overthrow of Sihanouk, which ultimately led to the overthrow of any elected government in that country. The blame must be placed where it properly rests. 
It is now fairly evident that almost any international telephone call leaving Australia can be monitored by satellite, the information being fed to the United States of America or other countries. I think we could judge that the Soviet Union has this capacity. Information about trade dealings, overseas contracts and the seeking of orders is passed on to commercial concerns in other countries to the disadvantage of this country. We are told in this Parliament by those people who are responsible to this Parliament for the good government of this country- I think they are the words that are used- that it is not possible or not proper for the Parliament of Australia to seek to know what is going on outside this place possibly with the knowledge of some Government Ministers and certainly without the knowledge of all. 
The United States Congress, through subcommittees of its various committees, is able to establish surveillance over United States security activities. As I have said, some of the excesses used in that country have been overcome by those committees. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a list of the committees of the United States Congress. The personnel listed are not accurate currently. There have been changes since the last election. The list is from the congressional records. It is only a factual document. 
-The danger to democratic government in this country that is posed by not informing the Parliament is greater than any danger which could exist to security organisations in this country by parliamentary surveillance. Stories such as the one in today s Sydney  Sun  and one in the  National Times  at the weekend may or may not be true. Whether they are true or not, they are almost certainly sensationalised beyond recognition. The danger to the Australian Government and Australia in these areas is that no one in an elected capacity on either side of the Parliament can say whether they are accurate or inaccurate. It is a greater danger than information would be. 
I want to raise a matter which is of serious concern in my electorate and has some long term consequences for both this Government and the Victorian Government. Sometime ago a preapprenticeship training scheme was introduced in Geelong in order to try to encourage additional apprenticeships in trades where there was a short supply. The scheme was for pretraining for 6 months in certain trades, with those entering the scheme being paid a minimal wage- I think about $20 a week- but being informed that they were almost certain to receive an apprenticeship in their chosen trade at the end of that period. The trades where courses have been completed, and most of those who entered the courses left technical schools or other schools to enter the courses on the understanding that they were going to obtain apprenticeships, were painting and decorating and bricklaying. In the painting and decorating area, about four out of 13 trainees who completed the period of pretraining in fact have obtained an apprenticeship. The others have been unable to do so. They have left school at a time when additional education would have been an advantage on the understanding that they would receive an apprenticeship. They have not received an apprenticeship except in the case of one or two boys. 
In the bricklaying area the situation is far worse. Out of 18 trainees I think only two have obtained apprenticeships. The reasons for this are fairly diverse. First of all, bricklayers normally work in one or 2-man gangs. They cannot afford to carry an additional person for any extended period without some production emanating from that person. Another problem is that the 3-year apprenticeship period has been reduced to  2Vi  years. The period of pre-training comes off the period of the apprenticeship. This represents an added cost factor to the employer in that he loses a proportion of the productive life of the apprentice in the late stages of his apprenticeship when he is able to contribute to the income of the firm. There are a number of serious things about the position. Firstly, this was a pilot scheme and the boys concerned were given to understand that they would get an apprenticeship at the end. As I said, they left school and therefore most likely disadvantaged themselves in order to gain what they thought was a better opportunity for future work. 
I have mentioned one of the problems- the shortening of the apprenticeship period. There are other problems involved. For instance, the workers' compensation payments for bricklaying apprentices amount to an additional 22  '/2  per cent of the salary paid. This is a penalty imposed on the employer which he cannot afford to carry. Also, payroll tax is involved if the firms concerned are big enough. Another disadvantage is that while firms taking on apprentices who have not undertaken pre-training can share in the junior employment subsidy scheme, these firms so far have been denied that benefit. A request from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in Geelong to the director of the Department which was made after I had made representations about this matter some months ago has not been finalised. But I would very much doubt at this stage that it is intended to reverse the existing arrangements. In fact, there are only about 26 boys involved. Most likely there will be more because I think the boys in the carpentry group are about to complete pretraining. They will be confronted with the same difficulties. 
It was a pilot program and these boys were in fact the guinea pigs in the scheme. What I am suggesting to the Government is that it may show some flexibility and offer employers prepared to take on these boys as apprentices the option of taking the 6-month subsidy for junior work training. They will get tradesmen out of them. Some of the parents are almost at their wit's end in trying to get the boys apprenticed after they have done the 6 months pre-training. I ask the Government to give serious consideration to taking what would be a one-off decision. I think that the scheme is likely to fold because of the lack of success in this pilot program. Nevertheless, the boys who were used in the scheme are entitled to consideration. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the motion, the terms of which were announced to the House some time ago. But, on behalf of the Opposition, I ask the 
Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  whether he can give us a detailed program of what legislation the Government expects to pass before the end of this session. I think it would be valuable for the House to know exactly what is expected of it before the end of this session, especially as the timetable as at present set out would appear to provide very limited time, and also as fairly extensive arrangements already have been entered into by committees of the House and otherwise for the week following the week on which we are listed to rise, which is a week in which I think there is a very great likelihood that we will be still sitting. If some advance notice were given of what legislation the Government anticipates being passed or requires to be passed in this session and what legislation it intends to stand over it not only may help honourable members to prepare their plans for the 2 weeks of sitting but also will give them some idea of what the future program is likely to be. 
-This approach is in line with actions that have been taken by the Victorian Government which passed legislation retrospectively within the last  1  years to protect the Victorian Premier. 
Motion ( by  Mr Ellicott)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the ruling of the  Deputy Speaker  be dissented from  (Mr Hayden's motion). 
I shall not delay the House on this legislation, but there are one or two aspects of it and of the remarks made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in his second reading speech to which I should like to draw attention. The first clearly is that the position of the 2 State railway systems which are being taken over is most likely not greatly different from other State railway systems. A rundown has been experienced over the last 20 years, to the extent that the finances, maintenance and general equipment of Australian raUway systems are far below the standards which ought to be accepted. I think that the House is well aware that the position of railways has changed dramatically in the last 30 years. It has been subject to and caught up with technological change. At the time when expansion took place in State railway systems and very heavy expenditures were involved, motor vehicles, which are better adapted to short-haul transport, were evolving to a stage at which they competed on very favourable terms with the railways. They had the advantage of flexibility and mobility which were not available to railways. They also had a secondary advantage in that the persons operating that type of transport were not required to build and maintain their own roads. 
In the main, the railway systems of Australia have serious problems with regard to maintenance, cost cutting and, as the second reading speech of the Minister indicates, commercial operation. I should Uke to believe that commercial operation is possible, but there is no evidence that any railway system in the world is capable of commercial operation if it is to provide the levels of service which warrant continued operation, both socially and economically. Australian railway systems are now at a point at which they will have to consider rolling stock. Diesel locomotives were introduced into Australia some 24 or 25 years ago. The original diesel locomotives are still operative and are well into the multiple millions of miles of operation. 
The fuel situation in the world would suggest that whilst diesel locomotives are far more economic as far as operation, installation and capital cost are concerned, electrification of main trunk railways in Australia wil have to be considered as a change of energy source, to conserve the fuel which they are currently using, namely dieselene. This will involve an extremely high capital cost, and one which certainly Will not be met by State railway systems. It is also most likely time that the Commonwealth looked at a further extension of the standard gauge system in Australia, to provide communications not only between MelbourneSydneyBrisbane, but on a wider basis. The question is whether railways have a future- I think they have- as bulk carriers and movers of large quantities of goods over long distances. There certainly is no prospect of railways operating as door-to-door carriers on their own. It is possible for them to be utilised in conjunction with private transport operations. For a number of years containerisation has been used in co-operation with transport groups on a carriage pickup basis. 
I think an event which happened in Sydney not very long ago highlights the problems which all railway systems are now facing. It alarms me to read suggestions that the lowest paid section of the railway work force- the repairers, the gangers and the track supervisors- are being exposed to blame in the case of the Granville railway accident when, in fact, the major blame rests with those who provide and those who control the finances. Despite the rates of pay paid for these necessary services- traditionally they are extraordinarily low- the employees concerned are very conscientious. But they are only able to do work within the scope which they are allowed by factors of time and direction. Over a number of years cost cutting in railway systems in Australia has become a major factor and one which this House, the Minister for Transport and those responsible for railways ought to be considering. Whilst there has been one accident which highlights one set of points, anyone who takes the trouble to walk along any stretch of railway in Australia whether it be heavily used or otherwise, wil find that maintenance is below par. Many stretches of Une - 
-They are below par and they are dangerous. They are dangerous because the cost of operating railways has gone beyond the capacity of those who are responsible to meet that cost. The importance of railway services is not recognised in either this Parliament or State parliaments. They are looked on very much as being vehicles to carry someone's goods on a subsidised basis but not to carry those goods which normally would carry a high freight rate. This is a disadvantage in the freedoms of individuals. But the other major transport systems in Australia. both road and air, are very heavily subsidised by this Government. 
Despite complaints about cost recovery etc., this Government provides considerable funds for those transport systems; but the railways receive almost nothing. There are no CommonwealthState railways grants as there are road grants, yet the road grants provide a basic transport system on which goods are conveyed. Without those funds interstate highways would not carry the commercial traffic which exists. In this instance the Commonwealth is finalising the taking over of 2 of Australia's State railway systems. If that wil mean that those railway systems will be adequately financed and will be able to provide the technical levels which should be available in this system for efficient and safe operation, that is a good thing. If it only means that the State budgets are going to be relieved of providing funds or that the Commonwealth will become Uncle Scrooge in place of a smaller Uncle 
Scrooge, squeezing the systems and forcing cost cutting, it will not be a good thing. The Minister is in a position in which he has to convince the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that the railways are worth feeding. 
-That may or may not be so; I am not going to argue about that one way or the other. At the moment the airlines do not think so because he has asked them to pay for their services. The States do not think so at the moment because he wants them to pay for their roads. What I am suggesting is that he has some responsibility to make some contribution towards the cost of bringing our railway systems up to scratch and to give serious consideration to the long-term conversion of the energy source for the main trunk railway lines from the diesel fuel to electricity. There is some electrification in Australia. If major electrification took place it would enable a better use of those solid fuels which are available in Australia to generate power and would provide a saving of scarce energy resources. 
As I said, I do not want to delay the House long. I think the Minister for Transport will understand my remarks. The railways systems of Australia, particularly in Victoria, the State in which I live, have been starved of adequate funds because of the high cost of operation, because of the degree of subsidised traffic which they must bear without that commitment being met from Treasury sources in the areas in which they operate and because they have been seen to be an easy way of avoiding expenditure. In Victoria for 10 years running the same amount of capital funding, in cash terms, was provided to the Victorian Railways. No business organisation could have operated on the same basis. This Parliament has a responsibily for the national transport systems. The road systems, whether or not the Minister provides the funds which the States believe he should provide, are not capable of expansion to meet our future long term transport needs. Bulk carriers are necessary and the railways provide the most efficient means of bulk carriage of goods over long distances within this continent. The railway systems must be equipped in order to deal with that problem into the future and should be so structured that they are able to conserve those energy sources in Australia which will be in short supply by using alternative energy sources which are available but which can be properly utilised only by the expenditure of substantial capital funds. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
Are the widows of deceased (a) public servants and (b) employees of Commonwealth bodies or statutory authorities entitled to retain their superannuation benefits derived from the contributions of their former husbands, in the event of their re-marriage. 
If not, are there any circumstances under which benefits would be retained. 
Is it a fact that loss of superannuation benefits by widows who marry another retired person can make such a marriage impractical because of the financial penalty involved. 
Has the Government considered any modification to the existing arrangements. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
Do the conditions of payment of Defence Force Retirement Benefit pensions to widows differ from those applying to widows under the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund. 
Do widows in receipt of DFRB pensions lose their entitlement on re-marriage. 
If the conditions applying to widows in receipt of DFRB entitlements are less advantageous than those applying to widows receiving benefits from the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund, will he take urgent action to remedy the position. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) What are the conditions for local content associated with the recently let tenders for teleprinter equipment for the Telecommunications Commission. 
Is the Commission satisfied that the Australian firm named as the manufacturer of the proposed local content of the equipment is capable of meeting the quantity and quality called for in the tender. 
What penalties exist if, at the end of the build-up period, the local content component is not achieved. 
What other tenders were received and how did they compare in (a) price, (b) local content and (c) delivery. 
Have unsuccessful tenderers been given an assurance that they will be successful in tenders for the supply of exchange equipment currently being considered. 
What is the estimate of the numbers of jobs which will be lost during (a) the build-up and (b) the total period of the contract. 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent immediate debate of the notice given by the honourable member for St George. 
The matter raised by the honourable member is a censure motion against members of this Parliament. As such it should not go on the notice paper but should be dealt with immediately. I believe that the honourable member in giving notice of his motion is merely seeking to use a device to state matters in the Parliament without seriously wanting them debated. I believe that when a member of this place gives notice of a censure motion against other members the House has a responsibility to allow that motion to be debated forthwith. 
As a result of persons on recreation leave, sick leave and other form of leave or disability where they are not actually at work. They are still maintained within the taff ceilings and the figure averages out at 10 percent at any given time. Those people are not accounted for. 
-Ten per cent of the totalstaff That is the average. 
Leave of various sortsat any given time. 
-I would not think sc If the honourable member takes a course in mathematics he will find that it is not unreasonalle. The indiscriminate - I say indiscriminatereplacement of persons or non-replacement of persons can take key personnel out of any department. They are not replaced with another person similarly qualified and someore else is expected to be able to pick up that work load. This causes mistakes and delays. In th, Department of Social Security at the moment work is being let out. Computer programning, for instance, is being let to private firms because the work force is not sufficient to undertake that work. I think most members of Parliament have received letters from Public Service unions and from individual members of the Public Service pointing out the extreme difficulties under which they are now working. For instance, the last census results will not be processed in many respects because of the Government's refusal to provide the wherewithal to the Bureau of Statistics for that purpose. 
In the Department of Defence members of the audit staff of at least one of the Services have indicated that some of the files which normally would be put away by persons engaged for that purpose most likely will never be found again after they have been taken out of their normal laces. Anyone, especially a member of the pubic, who has telephoned a department, and asked what is happening to his claim will be aware of tie number of occasions on which he is told that tfe file cannot be located or that the file is lost. Tie sort of confusion and downgrading of eficiency which is being created by this form of dicrimination will cause additional costs to the Commonwealth and serious cost to the com.munity and it is at present causing serious hardship individuals. 
I do not know what honourable members oppome think they are gaining when a person desperately in need of funds is told that his claim will &gt;e processed in due course, that he may receives cheque in six to eight weeks' time. That is the sort of delay which exists in the Department of Social Security with complicated claims. Simps claims usually can be processed without such i lengthy delay. Nevertheless, the length of delay is excessive. The delay in the recording of child endowment changes is 11 to 12 weeks. I think  i  more serious problem is in delays in dealing win cessation notices where for instance, a person is on unemployment benefit and notifies the Department that he is no longer eligible. In too many cases the notice cannot be dealt with forthwih because of the work load of the officers concerted, with the result that one or two cheques-remember these cheques are paid in advance-are sent after the notice is received. So any paynent made after the cessation notice is served oi the Department is a payment to which the person is not entitled. People are receiving notices o* over-payment of $100 to $150. They do not expect that this will happen after they have properly notified the Department, especially persons who have found employment after a considerable period of unemployment. They are subjected to serious hardship. 
Before dealing with other departments which do not dealdirectly with the public I should mention the Commonwealth Employment Service. It is not possible for the staff of the CES to man the programs with which they are charged or to do jobs which are required, if they are required also to process applications for employment and deal fairly with persons against whom there are charges of receiving the unemployment benefit improperly or of not complying with the worktest. If they are to perform their duties properly and not as a pick of a pin proposition, which I suspect happens too much at the moment- if the proper process is to be carried out- the staff must be available to do the work. In at least one State, possible three, decisions have been taken by the staff of the Department of Social Security that they will not deal with representations by members of Parliament because that adds to their work load, makes their normal work load impossible and merely delays the processing of claims. 
This is a serious matter. In some sections the Public Service is close to total break down. It is all right for the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  to raise his eyebrows. I suggest that he should go out to talk to some of the people who really do work in these departments. He would find that this situation is getting on top of many members of the staff. In Victoria the Migrant Information Service is about to suffer a 30 per cent reduction in staff. Officers who have worked as dedicated, hardworking public servants are to be downgraded or transferred out of the service. This area dealing with migrants is one of the most needy areas for specialised information. Migrants are to be deprived of that information by the action of the Government. 
Staff ceilings involve only numbers. That is all the Government is using at the moment. It is saying that this year a department worked with 1000 members and next year it can work with 900 members. If one were to take that progression to its ultimate conclusion we would have the total efficiency to government departments achieved with no employees and no output. I do not know what the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  would suggest in that case, but my suggestion is that the public is entitled to efficient service from the public servant. A public servant should not be asked to carry an inordinate load merely to satisfy the whims of the Prime Minister or any other Minister. If staff ceilings can be justified probably in many areas they can- they should be applied on the basis of the work load in a department being assessed and persons allocated to cope with that work load. That is not the way staff ceilings have worked. They have been applied altogether indiscriminately. In any department at which an honourable member likes to take a serious look he will find the numbers reduced because of resignations and wastage. To use an obvious example, if there is a large paramedical unit and it is decided to reduce the staff by one by not replacing the first person who retires, and the first person who retires is the medical officer who runs the show, all the rest could stay there as far as the Government is concerned and there would be an efficient operating organisation because the staff has been reduced by one. The fact that the unit cannot work at all is irrelevant. That is the way the Government's present staff ceilings are being operated. 
I have specific examples. I do not intend to put them to the House at the moment. I know that the Minister is aware of specific examples and I know that the honourable member for Parramatta is aware of specific examples. 
-I think that the honourable member is to speak in the debate. He may say what he wishes to say at that stage. He may wish to explain his attitude to the public servants who live in his electorate. The situation is that a gimmick has been devised. The Prime Minister never worries about whether things will work. We have seen that on too many occasions. We saw it with the wages and prices freeze. He did not know how that was going to operate; he told everyone to comply with the rules when rules did not exist. We saw more recently a more damaging example. Immediately before the March wage indexation case the Prime Minister made a veiled offer of tax concessions if the unions were prepared to accept that there be no increases in wages. But when the proposition was put to him with respect to the next wage case- the one that was heard in April- he said that the Government could not possibly comply with that sort of thing. He thought that he could influence the commission on one occasion; so he put it forward, knowing that he did not intend to comply. When it was put to him as a serious proposition he wiped it out. He does that too often. 
Statements that the Public Service staff ceilings have been applied efficiently and are working efficiently are statements of nonsense. The Public Service is not working efficiently. The service it provides to the public is declining. The efficiency and capacity of the Public Service to provide that service are declining. If the policy continues to be applied in the manner in which it is being applied we will find that the service will ' totally disappear in many areas. Individuals are being hurt in the social services area. The people least able to suffer delays and losses of income are the people who are being hurt in the social services area. A not dissimilar situation applies in relation to the Commonwealth Employment Service. The processing of applications and vacancies is made practically impossible by the incapacity or unwillingness of the Government to provide the 'necessary staff to do the comparison work between job applications and job vacancies, where vacancies exist- there are not many of them now- and to do advisory work- 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
Did he recently call for a strike by beef producers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 5 May 1 977: 
1 ) Will he consult with the Premier of Victoria regarding breaches of the prices freeze advocated by the Premier and announced as a fact by the Prime Minister. 
Will he take up with the Victorian Premier a 67 per cent increase in charges in Parliament House, Melbourne, introduced after the commencement of the freeze on prices is said to have commenced. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware that persons who subscribe to the standard Medibank cover- that is, the levy- are denied any benefit when they choose to occupy a bed other than a standard bed in a public hospital? Does this apply to pensioners as well as to others and is it a form of discrimination in that when a person is required to occupy a bed other than a standard bed he is denied cover even up to the standard rate although he may be prepared to pay the difference between standard and intermediate or standard and private ward cost? Has this matter been brought to his attention? If not, will he take action to remedy this situation as it discriminates against those persons who are taking advantage of the lower levy because of their income circumstances? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the motion but I want to draw attention to one or two things which are consequential on the motion and the purposes behind it. One is that the Government has a considerable amount of legislation which it is about to introduce, some of which is listed on the tentative program to be introduced as late as Wednesday of next week. The timetable would prevent any reasonable opportunity for consideration of the legislation at Opposition Party meetings after the date of its introduction. I draw the attention of the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  to the stevedoring industry Bills which are listed for introduction next week. I do not think there would be any doubt that one could live with the temporary provisions Bills. But the stevedoring industry Bills are the alternative Bills to be introduced, I understand, depending upon thenavailability from the Parliamentary Draftsman. If they are given to the Opposition next Wednesday to be debated next Thursday I think that would be a substantial denial of the rights of the Opposition because - 
-I want to expand on that point a little because the Bills involve major consequential amendments on which the Opposition spokesman would want to consult people. Some of the Bills, one of which is to be introduced by leave later today, and one involving major amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which is to come in on Friday, were not available to the Opposition until about an hour before its Party meeting was due this morning. I recognise that the Government is trying to get through an extensive program. In fact a greater number of Bills is to be introduced tomorrow than we have dealt with in the whole of the session since February. The point I make is that receiving a major piece of important legislation which involves amendments to a major Act an hour before a Party meeting is almost worse than useless. One has no time to collate it and to go through it and certainly no time to consult about its effects or to see whether it will carry out the purposes for which it is said to be drafted. 
A considerable amount of legislation is proposed to be introduced. I am personally doubtful that we will not be sitting next Friday. But if the Government intends to proceed with the legislation, especially the stevedoring industry Bills, we would want a reasonable time for committee meetings and consultation on them because they are a completely new approach to the stevedoring industry, which is an important Australian industry. Our spokesmen would want time to consult with those involved in the industry on the consequences of that legislation. Presenting them on Tuesday morning or at 11 p.m. on Monday night would not meet the requirements of the Opposition in this regard. 
-If the Opposition is not in a position to examine these clauses it will be put in a position where it has to oppose them, good or bad. 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
-The Opposition is in some difficulties in relation to this clause to which a substantive amendment has been moved. Unfortunately, the Opposition is not able to have clarified or to take advice on it because of the late hour at which the amendments were provided. We are not in a position in which we feel we can blandly take the word of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs on this. We were told at an earlier stage during other debates that certain things would be applied. The Minister has now found that that is not the case. He has now introduced other amendments to bring about what he thought the previous draft of the legislation would have done. The Opposition's position is that not being in a position where we can accept the amendments, we will be forced to oppose them. Our opposition is purely on the basis that we have not had time to get advice on them or to have those amendments properly explained even by the usual practice of officers of the Minister's Department or someone else coming to see us. The amendments have been brought in cold. They are substantive ones. The Minister says that they do certain things which they may or may not do. But without some advice to us on the consequence of the amendments, we are not in a position in which we can accept them. 
I wish to make one point briefly. Understanding the words and understanding what is proposed is one thing but taking advice on what it means is entirely different. I remind the Minister that in 1965 in this House an Attorney-General named Barwick introduced legislation called the Representation Bill and this year a Chief Justice named Barwick declared that legislation invalid. 
-Anyway, the Bill was brought into the Parliament when that AttorneyGeneral was in the Parliament. He obviously understood the Bill and what it meant at that time. However, his understanding was quite different when he was Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia. I suggest to the Minister that any person, whether a lawyer or otherwise, who on 5 minutes or one hour's examination of a major change in legislation suggests that he understands it, may well be able to speak to that legislation but it is a quite different thing to understand the legislation fully and to have a full knowledge of its legal consequences. That is what we are talking about. This is a major piece of legislation which will deal with the whole substance of commercial life in Australia. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 7 to 19-by leave- taken together. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
Can he say whether trainees have been employed under the Youth Employment Training Scheme by the Safeway Supermarket and Criterion Hotel in the Geelong district. 
If so, were these trainees appointed to positions from which other persons were dismissed. 
Are inquiries made by his Department to determine the cause of vacancies which are being filled by subsidised trainees. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
Did he make a public statement supporting increased prices for beef producers in the last week. 
I rise to deal - 
Motion (by  Mr Donald  Cameron) proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
That is the end of tonight, my boy. 
-Then you ought to talk to someone. That means that you have had your speakers and we have not had ours. It also means that you will not get the Bills through until 9 o'clock. I guarantee that these Bills will not be passed in the next hour and a half. 
I wish to deal with a specific matter relating to the Deakin University- a university which has been established by statute on an interim basis as from 3 1 March this year and which will commence full operations in 1978. Because of the circumstances surrounding the establishment of the University and the timing of that establishment, it has been established by the incorporation - 
-The University is in a difficult situation in that it has been established by the incorporation of a State teachers college and a college of advanced education, and has taken over the partly completed site of the college of advanced education, the former buildings of the college of advanced education and the former buildings of the State college which most likely were reaching the end of their useful life. 
During the last triennium as a college of advanced education the Deakin University did not receive funds. Funds for building purposes in that triennium were frozen and in some cases allocated to other institutions. So the University commences from behind scratch in the allocation of funds. The guidelines for the 1977-79 triennium indicate that universities are to maintain their intake of students in the years 1977 to 1979 at the 1976 level. The University will be starting in 1978 although it has just taken over the students of the Gordon Institute and the State college in terms of the management of existing courses. This means that there can be no increase in funding and no serious allocation of funds for new buildings is available in this triennium. 
The Universities Commission in its report makes this point: 
One consequence of holding intakes constant will be that the smaller, newer universities will have to operate at levels of enrolments which will be a good deal lower than those for which they were planned and which will be relatively uneconomic and prevent a desirable diversification of the universities ' academic work. This applies to the University of Wollongong, Deakin University, James Cook University of North Queensland, Griffith Universtiy and Murdoch University. 
My specific concern is the Deakin University. I have here a letter which was written recently by the  Chairman  of the Interim Council to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  setting out some of the problems confronting the University. Because of the time factor, I seek leave to have that letter incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The letter read as follows- 

Deakin University 
Office of the Vice Chancellor 20 May 1977 

 Senator the Honourable J. L. Carrick, Minister for Education Parliament House, CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600 Dear  Senator Carrick: 
The Interim Council of Deakin University views with deep concern the possibility that the restrictions on education spending may mean a cancelling of next year's building program. It has resolved unanimously that I should make representations to you in the strongest possible terms about the seriousness of a further delay in Deakin 's building program. Accordingly, I am writing to seek a meeting with you at which I can more fully explain the circumstances to you. 
I would be glad if you could find the time to visit Geelong to see the situation for yourself. If, however, you cannot manage this, the Vice-Chancellor and I will come to see you in Canberra. I will ring your secretary in a few days' time to arrange place, date and time. 
The building due to go up next year is already long overdue. During the period m which the creation of a fourth university in Victoria was being debated, uncertainty about the future deprived Geelong of new building. Capital funds of $2m which had been approved for the State College of Victoria at Geelong for the 1973-75 triennium were frozen; part was transferred to other constitutents of the State College of Victoria, and part was transferred to Deakin. In May 1975 the Universities Commission recommended a building program totalling o over $ 1 1 m for Deakin University, but this was cancelled later in the year. Even the $720 000 which had been transferred from the 1973-75 building program of the State College of Victoria at Geelong were withdrawn. 
In 1976 the Universities Commission was not able to provide funds for a building start in 1977 but recommended $ 1.6m for building in 1978. In addition, the Commission recommended $6m 'beyond the guidelines' to be made available in the period 1978-80 to furnish Deakin Univesity with an adequate initial complement of buildings. In reply to representations about the $6m, you promised to give sympathetic consideration to the recommendation in considering funds for 1978. 
At present, the activities of Deakin University are scattered over no less than five sites in and near Geelong. The main campus is at Waurn Ponds, 8 km south of the centre of Geelong. The School of Education is in the sub-standard buildings of the former teachers college in North Geelong and is itself split between two sites. Engineering is in the city centre, snaring a complex of buildings with the Gordon Technical College, which needs the space as soon as it can be vacated by our engineers. The Art and Design section of the School of Humanities is in leased space in a disused textile mill. 
We urgently need more buildings. Not only is the accommodation now available inadequate for our present requirements, but our needs will increase greatly during the next three years to cope with the establishment of an off campus program and an increase in enrolments. 
If Deakin were to lose even the $1.6m already allocated for building in 1978, there would be unfavourable repercussions not only in the university but in the whole of the Geelong region. I recognise, of course, that the restrictions on education spending which may put our building program in jeopardy are not of your choosing. I feel, however, that Deakin has such a compelling case Tor building funds that I would like to be able to put it to you in person. 
Yours sincerely, P.N.THWAITES Chairman, Interim Council. 
-Earlier this week the ViceChancellor of the University, in a published article which some honourable members will have seen, indicated that the Deakin University has asked the Commonwealth for an additional $17m for buildings and for the lifting of the ceiling on student numbers. The University says that it will cost $13m to transfer about 1000 full-time students from 4 different sites in Geelong to Waurn Ponds. That is $13,000 for each student. The sites are up to 10 miles apart and with the integration into one university it is reasonable that the university should be given a chance to operate efficiently and economically. That can be done only if they are excluded from the guidelines which are set out basically for the established universities. 
There is one other problem which has to be confronted. The former buildings of the Gordon Institute of Technology have been handed over to the Gordon Technical College which is being prevented from occupying space it needs to operate because sections of the Deakin University which was formerly the Gordon Institute of Technology must remain in that building. There is no area to which they can be transferred. The squeeze is operating at 2 ends of the scale. The Gordon Technical College has taken over the non-degree, non-diploma sections of what was the Gordon Institute of Technology. The problem is one of real urgency which should be examined as a special case. In any set of circumstances where guidelines are laid down there are always exceptions. To freeze the funds of those universities, especially the Deakin University, which are establishing part way through the triennium in the manner in which they have been frozen is to get them off to an extremely bad start from which it may take many years to recover. This may well have adverse effects on the opportunity level of students. 
Courses are being conducted on multiple campuses, some of the buildings being totally unsuited. At least one of the buildings being utilised is a former textile mill which has now been taken over for university activities. It is some 5 or 6 miles from where other lectures will be conducted. I draw the attention of the House to this matter. The Universities Commission in its report of July 1976 points specifically to the problems which are to be confronted in this area. I think it is also necessary that the Government examine this problem. This university is not asking for something that is not necessary. If it does not obtain adequate buildings the students will be disadvantaged. It operates at an uneconomic level. The output of skilled students at levels  which a university is expected to provide must surely be jeopardised. I ask that this matter be reconsidered. It is a serious problem for the Deakin University. It is a problem which I hope is of concern to the Victorian Government and the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick). 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Administrator recommending appropriation announced. 
-I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. Has a directive been issued to the Public Service that responses to correspondence from members of Parliament must be signed by the permanent heads of departments? If such a directive has been issued, will the Acting Prime Minister make a statement to the Parliament on such limitations on representations by members of Parliament which have been imposed by the Government, the terms of those limitations and the manner in which they are to be carried out? Also, will he state what facilities will be provided for permanent heads of departments to cope with the work load which will be generated by normal representations made by members in writing to departments and which will turn permanent heads into clerks rather than administrators of their departments? I ask the Acting Prime Minister whether a statement or detailed letter will be issued to members so that they will be able to inform their constituents of what restrictions exist on the making of representations on their behalf? 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, the Government's attitude on this matter is quite strange. The Government proposes to legislate in respect of the membership. The Bill names the persons who will be on the National Labour Consultative Council. The Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations is a major peak body of the trade union movement. Whether or not it accepts a position on the Consultative Council, the Government surely should be providing that the Council, in fact, is representative of the major employee organisations. I would think that that is the Government's responsibility. If the Council concerned refuses to accept its position, that is a quite different matter. 
I suggest to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations that he give consideration to this proposition before the Bill is presented in the Senate. If the Bill is passed in its present form and one peak council is made dependent on the goodwill of another for ultimate representationI remind the Government that it is putting this in legislative form-it is excluding a major section of employee organisations from what the Government hopes will be an effective forum. If they are excluded, then the effectiveness of the forum is reduced to that extent. I suggest to the Minister that if this proposal is accepted it means that ACSPA, to be represented, requires the agreement of the ACTU and is therefore represented in a subsidiary position because it must ask for the position of another organisation. 
Provision for the representation of ACSPA on the NLCC should be included in the Bill. Whether ACSPA accepts a position is another question. There is no guarantee that anyone will accept a position on this body, although I expect that the councils will do so. But the real argument is that provision should exist in the legislation for the major employee organisations to be represented. None of those 3 major organisations should be dependent for its position on the goodwill of another organisation with which, although it may have a kindred spirit, it certainly has an independent mode of operation. I suggest that the Minister might reconsider this matter, possibly before the Bill is introduced into the Senate, and make provision in the legislation for ACSPA to be represented on the Council. If he does not do so, he is excluding its future representation as an independent, separate body. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Willis's)  be agreed to. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
Under what circumstances does the Government accept that private agreements outside the formal arbitration system may be made between employers and employees. 
At what salary range does the Government consider conditions of employment to be a private matter not subject to legal restriction. 
Has the Government sought to act in respect of salaries, etc., paid under arrangements made outside employee and employer organisations and the arbitration system. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) Has he indicated that the Government will not accept wage agreements made outside the indexation system. 
If so, will he provide details of (a) the employment agreement between all members of his Ministry, and employees, including managers, that they may have in their private activities, e.g. businesses, farms, etc., (b) what awards cover these employees and (c) any differences between the award determinations and the actual salaries and conditions applied. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a brief statement. I have not had the opportunity to read the statement which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has tabled. But based on an answer given at question time, which I would assume is a correct summation of the statement, I am a little concerned that the Royal Commission indicated an independent inquiry. I think I should point out to the Minister that there was a departmental inquiry 3 years ago into this same matter. 
The consequences of the subject matter are of extreme importance, not only to the Public Service which I think is a side issue and the Department of Health which I think is also a side issue in this matter, but also to the effective operation of quarantine in Australia. That is what is under question in the Toomer case; that is, whether or not there is an effective means by which quarantine can be carried through. Toomer 's argument and dispute are with senior officers of the Department of Health in Western Australia whom he claims have subverted effective quarantine operations in that State. He has some support from other quarantine officers. A Public Service inquiry by senior public servants, irrespective of their association with the case concerned and /or their association with the department concerned, is  still  a Public Service inquiry where the senior officers' peers are inquiring into their activities and the activities of an extremely junior operative in the field who is arguing for some independence of action in the face of direct orders from his superiors. 
A number of honourable members of this House would be aware of the Toomer case. Most would have received correspondence on it. I feel that there must be some doubt about the results of any inquiry irrespective of, as I say, the integrity of the officers where senior officers of one department are inquiring into the activities of senior officers of another department. I suggest that a satisfactory result- and the previous inquiry which was conducted was far from satisfactory; hence this inquiry arises- can be achieved only by an inquiry which can be seen to be completely free of Public Service influence. The pure operations within the Public Service would tend to have senior officers looking on their peers as being the persons likely to be the right people in this situation. 
This matter is more serious than merely a Public Service matter. It is not a matter of employment. It is a matter of the structure, operation and effectiveness of quarantine in Australia which, I think the Minister would agree, is one of the most important things for a very substantial industry within Australia. The Minister has already indicated that this inquiry has been established. I have hoped that some other formula could be established which would overcome the legal difficulties which prevent an independent inquiry into the Royal Commission report being conducted or a Royal Commission being conducted. It may even be that we would have to use the device of a select committee of this Parliament to do the job, but I think that that would be a cumbersome and ineffective vehicle in this type of case. If necessary, I think a royal commission ought to be appointed with broader terms of reference because this matter is too important to take any risk of there being any form of whitewash in the operation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Opposition is not opposing this motion. We feel that it is important that time be made available for a debate on the nuclear safeguard statement and that it is a more important and urgent proposition for debate at this stage than the General Business item which stands in the name of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  For that reason, and because we are aware that there is not sufficient time to debate both matters, we are not opposing this motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill and the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) are machinery measures to bring about final legal authorisation of measures which have been operating for a considerable period. Therefore, they are hardly a subject for any protracted debate. There are, however, very important matters in the areas covered by this legislation and other consequential actions which arise from it which are of extreme short and long term importance to 
Australia, its relations with other countries and the social fabric within the country itself. Recently the White Paper on Manufacturing Industry was presented to the Parliament. It is a disappointing document. It contains a lot of words but very little on which manufacturing industry can hang its hat as a proposition for future development. Statements have been made outside the Parliament, especially by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony),  relating to long and short term protection. This week he made a statement indicating that we should look forward in the not too distant future to a progressive reduction in tariffs on a wide range of Australian manufacturing industries. This must be the ultimate aim of the Government. Although the manipulation of tariffs or changes in bounties provide some temporary relief to some industries, they do not appear to have any real effect in solving the problems of industry. 
Manufacturing industry in Australia is in serious difficulties. It is an unattractive form of investment for new capital even when that investment is subsidised heavily by Government tax concessions. It is a declining area of the Australian work force. It is a cost factor which must be taken into consideration within the community itself. Every industry which it is necessary to protect in order to maintain employment costs the community money. There are no criteria that I know of which can be properly applied to the cost of protection vis-a-vis efficiency. The most empty statement I have ever heard by an economist is that we should be cutting down tariffs in order to eliminate inefficient industry and transfer workers to other forms of employment. No one can tell us what the other forms of employment are. No one, to my knowledge, has set out reasonable criteria for an efficient industry. Some of our industries in Australia which are in diabolical trouble are and have been in the past amongst the most efficient in the world. Because we have a different standard of living and different social norms their cost structures are different from the cost structures of other, possibly less efficient, producers of the same product. 
Other advantages and circumstances apply to this situation. There are more social problems in the textile industry in Australia than there are basic economic problems when the problems are considered from a flat policy point of view. Obviously a great number of our textile operators have been less than efficient for a considerable number of years. I can see no reason why any entrepreneur would invest money in establishing a modern textile industry in Australia. It has been a dicey operation, almost a year to year proposition, at least for the last 20 years. The long term prospects are not improved by anything contained in the White Paper. Certainly the pressures in the foreign affairs and overseas trade areas have not assisted. 
These are areas in which we have a very substantial decentralised industry content and no alternative forms of employment. If we follow the economist's proposition and let these industries go to the wall because they are high protection and therefore high cost industries, what are the social or economic consequences for the nation? The Government has said that propositions such as Albury-Wodonga are low priority expenditure areas. More than likely that is true. But if we cut industries out of the country or large provincial areas- that is what reductions in tariffs or increases in quotas will do- these communities must look elsewhere for employment. No one has yet found alternatives. There is none. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  is one of those who are able to establish that there are more efficient forms of production. He is not able to tell us what they are but he is able to establish them in his own mind. He is a very modest man but, I think, not very practical in this area. It would be nice if our industries could be made more efficient. 
I wish to deal with a couple of other matters directly within the portfolio of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard).  I point to the inconsistencies which exist to the disadvantage of sections of industry such as the textile industry vis-a-vis the clothing apparel manufacturing industry. Within the guidelines for by-law entry there is a general code that if an Australian manufacturer can supply the goods required they cannot be imported. On the surface that appears to be a reasonable proposition. It does not apply to everyone. Certainly it does not mean necessarily that the goods will be supplied by the Australian manufacturer who can supply them. I use as an example a firm within my own electorate which makes fashion goods. I am sure that it is the same with many other firms. It is seeking to import certain materials for the manufacture of the clothes which it sells in competition with imported clothes using exactly the same base materials. That firm is not able to import the material concerned because what is deemed to be- and what is not- a suitable substitute is available within Australia. When I say 'what is not a suitable substitute' I mean that it is not a suitable substitute because the retailer who is going to sell the final item, is not prepared to accept garments made out of the substitute. Therefore, the fact that the substitute is available does not give the manufacturer any opportunity to sell his goods because if he makes his goods out of the substitute, the retailer will not buy them. If the retailer will not buy them, there is not much point in running the machines. 
The point I make here is that the manufacturer of the material is able to prevent the import of that particular item. The Australian manufacturer, who says that he could make a suitable substitute, does not get access to that order because the order is not made. But the importer of garments is able to import garments containing that material and the manufacturer, who would be competing with him if he were able to obtain the same material, is not able to say: 'I could provide those garments with a satisfactory substitute material involved '. So he is the meat in the sandwich. One set of producers is able to veto another manufacturer in another area. But in a third area, the second manufacturer has no rights whatsoever. It is an inconsistency in the operation of policy. It is something for which I should like to hear an explanation. I do not think one could be given. I am quite aware we can always put up the substitute argument that garment manufacturers could import everything if they were able to do so. There is a certain inconsistency in this area. I think that one of the problems is that the departments concerned in this area are understaffed and are not able to meet the demands which are growing in those areas because of the problems of our manufacturing industries. 
The White Paper which has been brought down, I think, does little to solve the long term problems. If we do not have a situation, especially in textiles and some of the other manufacturing areas, where long term investment takes place, those industries will gradually decline and go out of business. There is no question that if the existing tariff quota structures remain and no long term guarantees or long term programs are brought in, there will be that gradual close-down of a few firms each year. Certainly I think that no person not in need of psychiatric examination would invest large sums of money in modern plant. 
I make one other point. One manufacturer in my electorate invested considerable sums in carpet manufacturing equipment and, I think, had one of the most efficient operations in Australia, if not in the world. He has virtually been put to the wall. He has not gone to the wall as yet and I would not want it to be understood that that is the situation, but he has been placed in a position by other manufacturers in Australia of almost being non-competitive. 
-I hope that the honourable member for Wakefield will listen. This manufacturer has been put in a position of being noncompetitive by other manufacturers in Australia who have not gone to the trouble of making their plants as efficient as they could because they have gone into the importing business. I think that we now have enough carpet in Australia to carpet the farm of the honourable member for Wakefield. So, where an Australian manufacturer has put himself in the position of taking every step possible to become efficient, he still has been under-cut by his competitors within Australia who have been able to import rather than take the trouble to improve their own plants. 
I do not want to spend much more time on this matter, but I think that it is a problem which is complex beyond imagination. Australia has a basic work force which we either keep employed or find other means of maintaining. We cannot go back to the proposition of the 1790s, which was pull down the houses, cut out the poor laws and if you do that they will not breed any more of those illiterate workers whom we have to pay to feed. That is not a proposition. I think that the problem mainly is that we are not breeding enough workers. But the facts of the matter are that employment opportunities in Australia are in serious decline. As I understand it, manufacturing industry now employs less than 22 per cent of the available work force and is declining fairly rapidly. Other areas of employment are not opening up to match that decline. If we are not able to devise alternative sources, these efficient areas of production about which we hear such high and mighty statements- they usually are made by people who are not looking for jobs or who are not seeking to provide the industries in which the jobs will be found- we must take those steps necessary to maintain the areas of employment which we have. The Government appears to be dependent upon expansion of employment in manufacturing industry in order to reduce the unemployment factor in Australia. I think it is a forlorn hope because I do not think that the position of manufacturing industry has been adequately thought out. The White Paper gives me the impression that it is a document which was arrived at more by compromise than by actual thought-through policies. I think that most likely would be the result of any consideration of this problem. I doubt whether anyone could convince a group of people that they had the right formula for what I think is an insoluble problem. That is the Minister's responsibility not mine, fortunately. 
I think that the White Paper serves little to assist in this area. At the moment I think that there is most likely need not only for an ongoing review of tariffs, which appears to take an almost impossible term, but also a proposition whereby the various forms of protection in Australia and the reasons for that protection, whether it be to protect employment or to foster a new industry, should be set out actively and accurately. Also, other forms of protection should be examined very carefully. But there have to be positive guidelines which will encourage people to invest in industries which, at the moment, are in serious decline. I can see no way in which capital will go into those industries in the near future. 
-The textile industry is in decline and will continue to decline unless something more positive is done. I am sure that the Minister is aware of the problems of the motor car industry which apparently this year expects to sell 30 000 vehicles less than last year. This is at a time when we have 2 new manufacturers moving in to open operations in a market which most likely is big enough for efficient production for two and, at the most, 3 local manufacturers. 
It may well be a monument to government intervention. The motor car industry is one of the few areas of constant employment at the moment and that situation is about to go into reverse. If the honourable member for Wakefield can tell me where the 90 000-odd people in the motor car industry, including those employed in the industry in South Australia, are going to work if they are displaced from that industry, I would be extremely interested. No one who talks about more efficient areas of production has yet been able to say where or what they are. Certainly I do not think that we will be putting those people displaced from the motor industry into the rural industries which, in the main, are relatively efficient but which provide a very poor return to those who are efficient. The Opposition does not oppose these Bills. I pose certain problems to the Minister; I do not offer solutions. 
-This is one of the subjects on which there are 2 completely separate areas of discussion. One is the energy situation in the world and the necessity for new sources of energy. The other is the moral, social and ecological aspects and the damage which may be caused by providing the sources of energy which, I do not think anyone doubts, will become necessary in the very near future. We live in a society where any restriction on the use of resources, irrespective of what those resources are, is looked on as being unwarranted socialist government interference. Certainly, very few Australians and very few people in the industrialised west are prepared to look at their own situations and decide what their priorities are for the energy resources that now remain. People adopt an idealistic position and move along in the belief that something will come along some day and the problem will go away. It does not look as though this problem will go away. Nuclear energy, if it is used to its maximum extent, will delay the inevitable, possibly through most of our lifetimes and a little longer. But at that stage the problem will return. Technology may have advanced. It may not have. 
Both Fox reports have one common factor. They have provided everyone, from whatever point of view they wish to argue, with a basis on which they can argue. It is assumed by those opposed to the mining and utilisation of uranium that the Fox reports suggest fairly strongly that Australia should not mine and export uranium. Those who wish to mine uranium can find parts of the report which make a different proposition. The present policy of the Australian Labor Party, that decided by the caucus, is based on the fact that confusion exists as to the future safe use of uranium and the capacity of the purchasers of that product to guarantee the safeguards which are necessary in the use of that product. It is not unreasonable that, as one of the major producer nations, we should be seeking that level of safeguard as a guarantee. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a statement the day before the second Fox report came down- we are debating that statement at the moment- in which he set out certain safeguard guarantees. He expanded on that statement in the United Kingdom yesterday in a manner which almost echoes the speech which was made here earlier this year by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  It does not meet the requirements of those who want absolute safeguards. It certainly does not meet the requirements of the substantial proportion of those who want no mining at all. These are political decisions which, most likely, will be made with too much haste and little real consideration for their long term effects. Although we have had undertakings that a decision will not be made until the second Fox report has been properly debated as an entity in the Parliament, decisions will probably be made too early and without sufficient consideration being given to the 2 Fox reports and the other information available not only to the Government but also at international levels. 
The United States has a good moral position.  President  Carter has said that the United States is opposed to the development of fast breeder reactors. In the environment area and other major areas the United States seems to have a very sound policy line. It is opposed to the advanced technology of other countries ahead of the United States in that technology which damages the environment. I suggest that a certain aircraft is in that category. If an American supersonic aircraft had been constructed and was now operating, the demands of those working in the factories building those aircraft would have overcome the environmental problems surrounding its use. It is easy for  President  Carter to be self-righteous in this matter because the United States does not have that technological development at the moment. The people whom he is suggesting should not use their technology are the Europeans who are probably more dependent on nuclear power as an energy source at this stage than is the Unites States which has some basic petroleum supplies of its own. 
The key problem is whether nuclear energy can be used with reasonable safety to mankind itself. It is all right to say that the Japanese have made a decision to move into the area of nuclear power generation. The Japanese are in a similar situation to that of the United Kingdom late last century and early this century. With its high level of industry, it has to have massive supplies of energy available. In the United Kingdom, coal was the main source of energy. It is no longer a satisfactory source. Japan has never had a native source of energy. I think it is fair to say that we fought a war against Japan because of its need for access to petroleum which was cut off by an embargo in 1941. I do not think that the safeguards we are talking about at this stage are satisfactory. If we say to people 'If we sell you a product, we want guarantees that you will not use if for a certain purpose and that you will not sell it to another person' and expect that that will be done we are being less than honest with ourselves. We sold aircraft to Indonesia on certain undertakings. They were used for quite different purposes from those for which we sold them. It is difficult to go into a market-place and say: 'I want to sell my goods but I want to drive the cars I sell you and eat the cakes I bake or whatever I provide you with.' We are saying: 'We will sell you a raw material which is dangerous. Therefore, we want you to guarantee that you will use it in a certain way. Having sold it to you, we expect that you will not breach those agreements even though it may be necessary in your interests.' 
The nuclear energy field is not an area into which we should rush. I do not think that a delay of a few months or even a few years will seriously jeopardise the energy resources that are available or are becoming available. Perhaps that sort of delay will provide safety measures and safeguards with long term consequences for the betterment of mankind which are more than matched by the money returns and some of the trade-offs which may be available at present. I am referring to greater access to the European Common Market and agreements with the United States which would be favourable to us. I am concerned that those sorts of trade-offs are not the way in which we should deal with a material which could have such adverse effects. We are talking of a half-life for radioactive waste material of SOO million years and more. At this stage no technology is available to us which can guarantee that we can protect future generations from the after effects of that nuclear waste. 
This Parliament is responsible for the export policies of a nation which is estimated to have 25 per cent of the world's known supplies of uranium. That may be a high estimate or a low estimate but the facts are that we are responsible for a major proportion of the world 's uranium. In Australia we cannot make a decision on the basis of the argument about terrorists, atomic bombs etc. I think there is so much plutonium floating around the world at the moment that those sorts of arguments should not be taken into consideration. We should be looking at the specific consequences of accelerating the expansion of nuclear power generation at this stage without taking the trouble and the time to examine whether or not better conditions and circumstances and much higher levels of safeguards can be made available. By safeguards I do not mean agreements between nations because agreements between nations are only as good as the goodwill that exists between those nations. The history books are full of agreements between nations which were not worth the paper on which they were written. I remember one agreement in 1938 with a British Prime Minister. I remember a number written between Josef Stalin and Adolf Hitler in the late 1930s. History books are full of agreements in which the countries agreed not to do this and that. Such agreements are broken as necessity requires, whether that necessity be political power or economic requirements. 
Uranium is the basis of a vast source of energy. Rushing in to develop it in order to exchange it for market access or some other forms  of  influence would be irresponsible. I believe that delay in order to ensure that we are doing the right thing would be justified. At this stage I suggest that we should not be going into the mining and development of uranium but if delay can make certain that our decisions are correct I think delay is highly desirable. There is too much at stake and there is very little real information in the Australian community about this. I suggest that this debate is a preliminary discussion for Australia. A substantial proportion of the community is interested in this debate; a very small minority has any real understanding of what it is all about. 
This Parliament is debating uranium, I think for the third time in about three or four months. Most likely it has taken more time in the debate today than in all the other debates combined. There had been no previous debate of any substance. There have been gyrations on policies on this question by the political parties. The Australian Labor Party is a case in point. Only 2 years ago we adopted a platform which I doubt whether any constituent unit of the Party would accept as being a real and valid policy today. I would think that 2 years ago the attitudes of honourable gentlemen opposite would have been totally different from the attitudes they have in this area today. 
I remember a prime minister not long ago saying as part of his policy speech that we would construct a nuclear power station in Australia during the next few years. I think that was seven or eight years ago. Certainly the nuclear power station has not been built. I do not think any government since then has seriously considered building it because, first, it was not a necessary source of energy in Australia and, second, no government was satisfied that it could be done with sufficient safety to warrant its construction. I hope that the Government will delay any firm decision on the export and mining of uranium until such time as it is absolutely sure that such a decision is the correct one. I do not believe that sort of decision can be taken at this moment or in the near future. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
Has he taken any steps to restrict the entry into Australia of radio transceivers used illegally by citizens band operators. 
If not, does that indicate that he is not concerned at these illegal operations or the effects that technically deficient equipment will have on legally authorised users of radio frequencies. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
What is the present average delay in each State in the processing of applications for Australian citizenship. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
What has been the nett saving to Commonwealth revenue as a result of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration 
Commission's decisions to pass on less than the full percentage Consumer Price Index increase in national wage judgments since 1 July 1976. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
Did he say in answer to a question on 26 April 1977 that it has always been the view of his Government and of the Government Parties that democratic opposition must operate within the parliamentary forum in the proper democratic manner, that his Government does not believe that politics ought to be taken to the streets, as do quite a number of people on the Opposition benches of the House and as they practised on a previous occasion, and that the Government believes very strongly that the proper democratic forum- that is, the election of people at elections-is the way in which to see who ought to govern and the nature of the opposition itself. 
If so, does this mean that persons who are not Members of Parliament are not entitled to seek to oppose or participate in political decision making other than on a triennial basis by being allowed to vote at elections. 
If this is not the meaning of his statement, what actions are accepted by the Government as legitimate opposition to legislative or policy decisions with which a minority or majority of persons or organisations may disagree. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) Has the Government finalised consideration of the future of the superphosphate bounty. 
) If so, when will an announcement be made. 
Will any announcement be accompanied by a statement of personal interest by Ministers participating in the decision. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report on page 1 of the  Australian Financial  Review of 23 May 1977 relating to the effect of ozone on airline crews and travellers. 
If so, is he able to say whether the claims made in the report are accurate. 
3 ) What studies have been carried out by his Department into the effect of ozone on long distance air travellers. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
1 ) What restrictions exist on the entry of radio transceivers for sale in Australia. 
How many transceivers have been imported in each of the last 12 months. 
Are importers required to show that these sets are to be used for a legal purpose. 
-The Opposition does not object to the motions as circulated. We agreed to the matters contained in them during the previous session. I would point out, however, that I think that there is a limit to how long Sessional Orders can be used as a substitute for Standing Orders. I think that the practice of using this method commenced when  Mr Daly  was Leader of the House. I see advantages in it but I do not see it as being a substitute for considering the actual Standing Orders and the changes to those Standing Orders which should be made on a permanent basis. Under these circumstances the House can agree to Sessional Orders and they can be subsequently allowed to lapse by a government without any consideration being given to them by the House- merely by the effluxion of time. 
Another matter that I wish to raise with the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  at this stage is the question of the consideration of the report of the Committee on Committees and the broader recommendations of the Standing Orders Committee, which should be brought before this House during this session at least. Subject to the Parliament still continuing at that time, I hope that prior to the autumn session the Leader of the House will bring forward the necessary amendments to the Standing Orders to bring about the alterations which are acceptable to the House and which should be made. The Opposition does not object to these Sessional Orders being introduced at this time but considers that the trial period should not be too protracted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
What charges have been made against his Department for the provision of transport outside Australia for (a) the 
Governor-General (b) the Prime Minister, (c) the Minister for Foreign Affairs and (d) other Ministers. 

 Mr KillenThe answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The only mode of Defence Department transport utilized to provide transport overseas to the Governor-General, Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and other Ministers consists of the special aircraft of RAAF No. 34 Squadron. 
The costs attributable to operating these aircraft and other associated costs, although initially a charge to Defence Appropriations are ultimately recovered from the Prime Minister s Department and constitute a charge to that Department. 
The amounts recovered by the Department of Defence from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet for overseas travel by VIP aircraft of RAAF No. 34 Squadron, and the total flying hours of such travel, are as follows: 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Will he ascertain how many State public service jobs are available in the A.C.T. 
How many public service positions have been transferred to, or located in, Canberra as a result of Government action in the last 20 years. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 April 1 977: 
Have Government departments, authorities and other organisations subject to staff ceilings been directed to let out work to private firms where it is found impossible for it to be performed at existing staff levels. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) Is the Telecommunications Commission or the Postal Commission letting out to private contractors, typing, computer programming and other work normally undertaken by staff of the Commissions. 
If so, is this action made necessary by lack of staff in clerical areas. 
) What is the cost of using private contractors. 
Were the firms used for this work determined by tender, if so, who was the lowest tenderer. 
5 ) If tenders were not let, what method was used in determining where the excess work would be placed. 
What additional staff would be required to allow the Commissions to perform internally the work now subject to private contract. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) Are Commonwealth employees who regularly drive cars, buses or other vehicles, consulted regularly in relation to the suitability and performance of vehicles purchased by the Commonwealth which they drive or operate. 
If not, will the Minister examine the possibility of requesting drivers to supply a statement of suitability and performance at regular intervals. 
Will the Minister consult with his Department, unions, vehicle manufacturers and automobile organisations to establish what information could be useful as a result of these surveys of drivers. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 April 1977: 
) How many licences have been issued for users of radio equipment in the 27 Hz band in each of the last 1 2 months. 
What is the estimated number of sets in use in this frequency range. 
Has the Government failed to restrict entry into Australia of obsolete 27 Hz radio equipment, dumped because of changes in United States regulations; if so, docs this indicate a tacit acceptance of the use of this equipment illegally in Australia. 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. He will be aware that under the tax scales which he announced in the Budget the average tax rate on incomes up to $16,000 a year will be 24.Sc in the dollar. What rate of tax will be applied under the primary producers' fiveyear tax averaging scheme? Will it be 32c, as appears to be stated in the Budget Papers, or such lower rate as the average tax payable on actual income would indicate? I ask this question because if it is to be the 32c rate the tax averaging scheme has effectively been abandoned. 
-The Opposition opposes the deferment of these notices- 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the honourable member for Corio be not further heard. 
-The Opposition considers the method by which the Government has introduced this legislation and is seeking to pass it to be quite foreign to the proper practices in a democratic parliament. 
-Freddie is not a member of the Parliament at the moment; the Minister is. The Bill which has been declared urgent and which the Minister apparently does not consider to be very serious was handed to honourable members less than 10 minutes ago. The Bill will have very far reaching consequences, as I am sure the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard)  knows. The Opposition has not had an opportunity to discuss the legislation as a party; nor has it had a chance to consider the Bill itself. 
Whilst this may or may not be necessary legislation, and I do not wish to debate the Bill at this stage, it is important that the Parliament know what is in the legislation that it is being asked to pass. Less than 3 minutes after the second reading debate starts the spokesman for the Opposition will be required to reply to the second reading speech on a very detailed piece of legislation which was given to him only an hour ago. It was given to him only after a request was made to the Minister, and on the basis that no other member of the Opposition would be entitled to see the legislation. This is far reaching legislation. Those lawyers on the Government side who take the trouble to read the Bill will know that it contains provisions whereby a Minister, without having to have recourse to the courts as does any other employer, and without even having to go through the normal government operations, will be able to give a direction to employees and they will have to carry out that direction on pain of dismissal. No protection whatsoever is left. That is the legislation that is being forced through this Parliament without the Opposition having any opportunity to discuss it. 
I see some shamefaced members opposite but they will vote for it. I heard one honourable member in this chamber defending the rights of certain railway employees to take certain action. Under this proposed legislation they could be dismissed instantly, with loss of all rights, for taking that action. That is what that honourable member is going to vote for in this Parliament. 
This Bill is not a matter of urgency and even if it were there is no reason why the Government could not have given reasonable notice to the Opposition. The Bill has been printed for some considerable time and the Minister had time this morning to put it before a meeting of his own Party. This would not have been the first time that legislation had been given to the Opposition in advance of its being brought into the Parliament so that it could be considered. That has happened on a number of occasions. I suggest that the reason why this Bill is being put forward in this manner is not because it is looked upon as being urgent; it is to widen an industrial dispute, not to solve it. That is the real purpose of this Bill. It is significant that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has been in the chamber to husband his latest political gimmick through the Parliament although he has left the chamber for the moment. He has been in here guiding this legislation through. I suggest that if honourable members on the Government side had had the opportunity of reading this Bill before it came into the Parliament they would have realised that it is not merely a Bill to deal with a narrow dispute in the Redfern Mail Exchange or some other industrial dispute. This Bill represents the most sweeping industrial legislation that has come into this Parliament in years. It is worse than the Trade Practices Act which the Government tried to foist on the Parliament on an earlier occasion. 
-If the honourable member for Capricornia happens to believe in totalitarianism and authoritarianism, whether it be communist or fascist, it is good legislation. I happen to believe that we live in a democratic society. Obviously honourable members on the Government side do not. There is no reason for dealing with this Bill urgently. There is less reason for the Government withholding it from consideration by the Opposition before dealing with it in this Parliament. This exercise is nothing more than a farce. If honourable members look at the Minister's second reading speech they will see that this Bill has no other purpose than to highlight and inflame industrial relations in the Post Office. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-I raise a matter tonight about which I think every member of the Parliament would be concerned. Those honourable members who take an interest in the Notice Paper will have noted that at the moment there are a number of questions on notice in the name of the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  relating to matters concerning the Public Service in Western Australia and a  Mr Toomer,  a quarantine officer. The matter is currently the subject of, I think, a second or third investigation, in this case a Public Service inquiry. The Coombs Royal Commission into Australian Public Service m fact recommended an independent inquiry. As the former Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  said in this House during the last session, there are no means by which such an inquiry can be established. But some of the facts surrounding this case need even further investigation. I think that they would place in the minds of honourable members, if they applied themselves to the matter, serious doubts about the whole of the operations of the Australia 's quarantine services. 
The Toomer case is a classic example of clashes of personalities. The end result was that during an actual inquiry into this gentleman's activities, a situation arose in which the department against which he has appealed on a number of occasions and into whose activities, relative to himself and his activities, the inquiry is being conducted, has seen fit to call the gentleman concerned on duty during days when hearings were held and on which he was required to give evidence. The evidence suggests harassment. Yesterday, as a result of a public statement he made in which he disclosed that certain articles which had entered Australia in postal form without having been opened or examined were found to be infested, he was charged with making statements about these products and was fined a couple of hundred dollars. The recommendation of the department is that he be dismissed. But I make the point that these charges were laid while the gentleman concerned was the subject of an inquiry into the whole of the affair. The inquiry was established by a Minister of this Parliament and was announced in this Parliament. 
I do not want to concentrate on the rights or wrongs of that case or the activities of the department. The matter I want to deal with is, I think, far more serious-the quarantine service itself. I believe that there is sufficient evidence at least to suggest that that service should be given an independent statutory role or should be attached to a department other than the Department of Health which would seem to me to have primary functions which have little relevance to quarantine or the type of work which customs officers carry out. Certainly, any breakdown in the quarantine services in Australia would be total disastrous for substantial sections of primary industry, especially in the livestock areas. 
The Government has this year failed to fund the National Animal Health Research Laboratories. This means that any breakdown in quarantine would lead to an immediate closing off of markets to Australia for Australian exports of meat or whatever other product was involved. It would also mean that until eradication was proven, we could not export our products. We have no facilities for proving eradication in Australia at the moment. We would have to depend on overseas facilities- possibly European facilities- to do so. That is very difficult to do with live animals or even carcasses. The cost to primary industry in Australia could be up to SOm a month while eradication was proven. I make a plea to the Government to reconsider this problem, especially as I think the Government has allocated far more money to the off-shore quarantine station than it can spend in this financial year. I say this particularly as I doubt that the Government has yet even negotiated for a site with  Mr Clunies  Ross. I put it to the Government that it should be looking closely at that problem. The National Animal Health Laboratories design team will be disbanded because there is no money to carry on their work. The quarantine services in Australia are in serious jeopardy. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
Does the Geelong Commission Act of Victoria meet the criteria set out by him in his letter of 27 April 1977 to the Victorian Minister for State Development and Decentralisation,  Mr Crazier,  for Commonwealth consideration of funding. 
If not, has he informed the Victorian Minister. 
-We have heard a great deal about Rex Connor's intellect. The one thing that I think Rex Connor embodied to everyone who spoke to him was commonsense. He expressed himself in terms which everyone could understand. 
Unfortunately many of the members of this House who would have wished to be present at his funeral on Thursday will not be able to be present because of the duties of Parliament. I feel that this is the appropriate time to indicate that any absence from that funeral of members of this Parliament, especially from this side of the House but also I am sure from the other side of the House, will not be because they do not wish to pay a final tribute but because they are unable to be present as they are doing what I am sure Rex Connor would have wanted them to do, that is, attending to their duties as parliamentarians. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill which proposes to authorise the payment of moneys for the ensuing 12 months for the promotion and research programs of the wool industry. The Bill also introduces provisions which will give the Australian Wool Corporation total control over the movements of wool outside Australia. However, I wish to raise a number of matters relative to this legislation and consequential upon its operation. Under this legislation power is given to the Australian Wool Corporation to negotiate freight rates. It appears that some consideration has been given to the general freight rate negotiations which take place for primary industries and which normally are based on the negotiations relating to the price of wool. Under the legislation the Minister will exercise his authority in relation to the negotiations after the Wool Corporation has undertaken the negotiations and reported to the Minister. At present negotiations take place after consultation with the Minister. Because of the overlapping consequences I suggest that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  might indicate to the House at a later stage exactly how negotiations for freight rates for other primary industries will be undertaken. Will they be tied to the negotiations of the Wool Corporation? In some ways this would be unfair to wool growers. The consequences of change could well disadvantage a variety of other primary producers whose freight rates are substantially dependent on these negotiations. 
The Wool Corporation will be able to negotiate outside the normal conference lines. This could alter the quantities of primary products being shipped. There are some dangers in this area and I am sure the Wool Corporation is aware of them. In other industries such negotiations have ended up, at least on occasions, in people getting their fingers burnt. I draw attention to this matter because the Bill provides that the Minister's authority will be exercised after the negotiations rather than before the negotiations as has been the case up to the present. Another matter in the Minister's second reading speech relates to the discontinuance of the practice of funding on a triennial basis and, instead, annual allocations of funds being made. This may or may not be in the best interests of the industry. On the question of research, it is certainly important that promotional projects be planned on a basis longer than 12 months. The second reading speech states that the Minister will indicate the level of funds which he anticipates will be available for each of the ensuing two years. That is a doubtful proposition. I use no stronger term. 
I remind the House that 12 months ago it was indicated that education funds would have a growth of 2 per cent per annum and we know what the situation is in that area. If the plan for research and promotion is based on that principle there could be disastrous effects for a program already under way. There is no guarantee that the same sort of result will not occur. The Government is transferring certain basic research costs from the levy funds to Consolidated Revenue. This is something of a gain, provided the Department of the Treasury does not find out. I think it has been the experience of most people in the House that it is far more difficult to maintain funding for such projects over a long period where they are direct deductions from Consolidated Revenue. It is much easier with funds which are committed by way of an arrangement such as the grower contribution levies and government grants. I draw attention to one other matter relating to funding in the industry and that is the apparent lack of any support or consideration for the present situation. In this year's Budget the wool industry is a net contributor to the income side of the Budget by around $73m. Wool growers will contribute more to revenue than they will receive in return. The Wool Corporation has substantial trading stocks. I think it is reasonable to suggest that this stock will continue to grow for some time, despite optimistic projections. 
During the last few weeks I have been in Japan. I think honourable members will be aware that the textile industry in that country which is the most substantial buyer of wool from Australia is, to say the least, in decline. Its industry is operating at about 70 per cent capacity and is looking at a long term stabilisation at that level. I think it can be anticipated that at least in some areas the Corporation will be placed in a position where its stocks will increase. It is also evident that the Government is withdrawing its funding through government loans to that organisation and is requiring the Wool Corporation to seek funds to finance its holdings on the open financial market through the trading banks or wherever the Corporation can find funds. This will be an added cost to the grower and to the Corporation, especially if the market for fine wools continues to be as tardy as it is now. It appears that that is the likely future. 
I am concerned also at the methods and operations of wool promotion. I note that in the last few days there has been promotional activity in Australia. High fashion garments were shown in the hope that Australian garment manufacturers- if there are any left- would pick up those designs and manufacture them for the Australian market. It was about two or three weeks ago that a major designer in fine wool cloths in Australia went out of business because Australian fine wool cloths were not available for her to use in the garments which she designed and imported articles were too expensive for such use. I am not exactly sure what conclusions can be drawn from that. It seems that an Australian based designer who has been very successful in the past and who seeks to use Australian fine wool materials is unable to obtain those materials in Australia and because of cost she is unable to import such wools. So the promotion of the types of garments designed by foreign designers which that company had previously designed and marketed might well be an unprofitable operation. 
The Opposition does not oppose this legislation because it is important that promotion and research in these areas continue. It welcomes the provision for basic research  to be transferred  to funding from Consolidated Revenue. We hope that those who control Consolidated Revenue will remember the importance of that research and of the work of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, especially in this field, in the past in maintaining wool in a competitive position with artificial fibres. The market for fine wool is currently under some pressure, as I have said. If promotion can partially solve that problem a major future problem for the whole industry could disappear. Unfortunately, I have some short term doubts about that happening. Some time in the very near future the problem of stockpiles of fine wools and the price levels of those fine wools in the market will have to be tackled by both the Wool Corporation and, I think, the Government. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes. The honourable member for Canning said that the $73m which will be contributed was not a tax as I had indicated. I did not indicate that it was a tax. I said that wool growers will be net contributors to the expenditure side of the Budget- that is, there are other forms of expenditure. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (5.43)- It would have been nice to follow the speech by the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  had the speech not been a bit too comprehensive and had the honourable member not taken most of my time. However, I am grateful for the opportunity to speak in the debate because there are many large and important wool growers in my electorate, many of whom are in serious difficulties. The provisions of the Wool Industry Amendment Bill (No. 2) will no doubt be important and will assist in bringing about a more viable wool industry. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech told us that the Bill has a twofold effect. One of its purposes is to amend the Wool Industry Act 1972 to give effect to the Government's decision to continue to contribute in conjunction with the wool industry to programs of wool research and promotion but it does appear from some remarks by the honourable member for Canning- and I do not want to go over themthat the wool industry is paying more than its share of the cost of promotion. That is regrettable. 
The Bill also contains provisions designed to enable the Australian Wool Corporation to act more effectively in negotiation of freight rates. This is important because the people in my electorate continually complain to me about high freight rates. Of course, these are not only overseas freight rates about which they are concerned but also internal freight rates. The figures produced by the honourable member for Canning were startling. I know he is correct in saying that $95m for this scheme has come out of the pockets of the woolgrowers. I am very concerned about that because most of the woolgrowers in my electorate cannot afford to make this kind of a contribution towards research and promotion. I believe that the Government should be making a greater contribution in these fields. 
There is no doubt about the importance of the wool industry to the Australian economy. There is an urgent need for the Commonwealth to immediately tackle the serious economic problems of the industry and formulate constructive action to enable it to regain and maintain its former viable economic position. The comparative economic advantages enjoyed by the Australian wool producers over other wool producing countries has come about through the efficiency of the Australian woolgrowers and the fact that the great majority of them are hard workers. Most of them whom 1 visit in my electorate are all kinds of tradesmen. They can pull down a shed, they can put up a house and they can repair machinery. I have no doubt that that is why they have such an economic advantage over other countries. It is unfortunate that this advantage has been eroded at an alarming rate because of insidious increases in production and marketing costs. One would hope that with the right to negotiate freight rates some of these costs will be reduced. 
There is no doubt that unsatisfactory wool prices are wrecking the financial position of many woolgrowers, particularly those in marginal areas as is the case with many of them in my electorate. The Industries Assistance Commission inquired into the funding of wool research and wool promotion and, according to the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry, its report has been taken fully into account. I hope that is so because wool research and wool promotion are very important. It is of great satisfaction to woolgrowers to know that when they put submissions before the IAC someone takes a bit of notice of them and they are acted upon. Many growers in my electorate have pointed out these things to me and according to what I am told it is a matter of urgency for the Government to recognise that radical changes in the systems of marketing and distributing wool must be implemented. We should have greater standardisation and an improvement in the quality of presentation. 
Despite the prediction that the gross value of mineral exports will overtake the value of wool exports, it should be remembered that most of our major mineral production is in foreign hands and that means that a good bit of the pro/it goes overseas. Let no one think that I am entirely against it because a large proportion of my electorate also depends upon the mining industry. There is no doubt that there should be some balance between these two industries. 
The Government has said that it has accepted the recommendation of the IAC that some 60 per cent of the programs of continuing wool research now supported in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics by expenditure from the Wool Research Trust Fund should be funded in the future from consolidated revenue. At least we can say that we are taking a step forward but many other measures need to be taken. I hope that at some time in the future when I am given a little more time I will be able to put these things before the House. 
-There are two things which I wish to say at the commencement of my remarks. Firstly, I welcome to this House members of the Sabah House of Assembly. Secondly, this debate is far more important than it is rated in this House. I understand that it is to be chopped off very shortly and that further debate on the conference of the Association of South East Asian Nations and its implications is not to take place in this House. It is all very well for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to make the sort of statement he made in this House the other night, but this whole question is more deeply implanted in the problems of the Australian economy and in the problems of other economies than the superficial statement made by the Prime Minister would indicate. Unfortunately the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  who preceded me in the debate seems to believe, as does the Prime Minister, that the problems which the textile, footwear and many other industries in Australia are currently facing appeared some time in 1974. That is not correct. The present problems of those industries commenced basically during and were growing throughout the 1960s. The levels of investment and the levels of modernisation in some of these industries have been extremely low. It is fair to say that whilst it is the habit in this Parliament for people to make repeated statements about labour costs in Australia there is at least some evidence that improvements in management techniques would have gone a long way towards modernising many of our basic industries and making them more competitive. 
The more unfortunate occurrence in the present situation is Australia's lack of preparedness to enter into agreements such as those operating under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The United States of America, which promoted the free trade euphoria of the Kennedy Round, made good and sure that it had secured very, very high levels of protection for itself before it agreed to the cuts which were initiated at the time of GATT. It is significant for people who keep talking about access to Australia's markets and who listen to the statements of the United States without question to note that 90 per cent of the United States textile market is reserved exclusively for United States manufacturers. Australia at the moment reserves about 60 per cent of her market for Australian manufacturers. 
-The United States does not do real bad in world trade. Japan has almost a total embargo on any form of entry into the 
Japanese market which is in competition with its own industries. Far back I can remember hearing  Sir John  McEwan complain about the difficulties of getting anything on to the Japanese market. Japan and the United States represent the two greatest potential markets in this part of the world. Both of them are substantially closed off whilst the Australian market is extremely vulnerable. I consider that the blundering statements and the handling of some of our protection measures by the present Government have caused some of the problems which face us. Earlier tonight the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  mentioned a statement made in this House within an hour of the statement by the Prime Minister in which it was indicated that we would be seeking to change our trading relations and that we would be seeking to bring about certain re-allocations of sources of imports. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  stood up in this House shortly afterwards and announced reductions in quotas in most of those sensitive areas about which the countries making up the Association of South East Asian Nations were making complaints. 
I have never been stupid enough to suggesst that Australia can afford to denude itself of its basic manufacturing industries. Those who have done so have always referred to more efficient areas of production in which the labour force can be placed but none of them have ever been able to stand up here and reveal those more efficient areas of production. The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  cannot do so either. The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  has stood up in this House on numerous occasions and made statements about the textile industry. I want to make some rational comments on that industry and other industries in Australia. Talk of restructuring industries in Australia to date has been substantially pie in the sky. Talk of additional investment in order to modernise productive methods and therefore make Australian industries more competitive also is pie in the sky. The simple reason for saying that is that no long term guidelines and no policies have been laid down. No structures have been provided whereby those alterations to the internal structure of Australian industry can take place. The White Paper which was brought down in this House did not offer any way out for those industries which will disappear gradually in the next 10 years. I would agree with the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  in that respect. Despite any levels of protection, substantial portions of our industries will just fade away and die, largely because of obsolescence and complete incapacity to manufacture at anything like acceptable cost levels. That will create vacuums which cannot be met in the employment area. 
A lot of nonsense is also talked about increasing employment opportunities in Australia. Unless manufacturing industries maintain something like their levels of employment and tertiary employment is increased- current government policy is to reduce it- there are no other areas in which opportunities can be created. At an earlier time in this Parliament the Prime Minister made a statement to the effect that he did not think that the Government should be encouraging investment in industries which would bring about modernisation of production methods to the extent that this would cut down the labour content in those industries. Unfortunately you either have that investment or you have no industry at all. 
The ASEAN countries, as with other Pacific countries, represent very substantial markets for a lot of our goods, not only in the primary areas but also in the mineral and manufacturing areas. Because of lack of thought about our approach in many of these areas we have created demands which I doubt very much that the Australian Government can meet. The Prime Minister's statement would indicate that the Government has no intention of meeting them for access to Australia's markets. We are the only market which appears available and the only market in which we appear to be currently continuing to alter our protective mechanisms. We have very few long term protective mechanisms. 
One is told almost daily that all of the problems of Australian industry started some time in 1974 with the 25 per cent tariff cuts. As I pointed out earlier in this speech, most of the industries which got into trouble at that time were in trouble immediately before the 1973 boom. Most likely those areas of problem were staved off by that boom. The delicacy of the ASEAN position relates to the fact that we have something like a four to one favourable trade balance with the Philippines. In 1974 exports of textiles from the Philippines to Australia were almost non-existent. Within 12 months, because of the investment of foreign capital in that country, those exports had risen to something like one million pieces a month. The Australian market was not geared to absorb that in addition to the imports which came from Taiwan and the imports which are now coming from China and South Korea. A substantial section of Australian industry was hit a sledge hammer blow in the period after the world shortage of goods in late 1974. 
I believe that a far more serious approach has to be taken. I have never hesitated saying in this House that I do not believe that we can allow open competition in Australia. I believe that is correct. When one talks about more efficient production one also has to look at the living standards and wages in Australia and those in other countries. Those things are not the only consideration. We also have to look at financial incentives. In some Asian countries which are exporting large amounts to Australia there are tremendous financial incentives for a manufacturer to establish. Manufacturers are given practically tax-free, cost-free accommodation to encourage them to establish themselves in some countries. That is a condition which Australia cannot match. I do not think Australia should be seeking to match it. But it creates a lack of competitiveness within our industries. 
The Prime Minister also mentioned in his statement the talks he had with the Japanese Prime Minister,  Mr Fukuda,  and especially those relating to sugar. I would like briefly to mention those talks, which are critical to our long term trading arrangements with a number of countries and not just Japan. I have already mentioned the protective mechanism that exists in Japan and the almost total impossibility of obtaining access to the Japanese markets. I think it is reasonable to say in this House that although the present price of sugar under the long term contract with Japan is high by world standards it was originally negotiated at a price that was considerably below the world price because the Australian negotiators were prepared to sell at lower than the normal price in exchange for long term contracts. The fixed price of the contract was at the insistence of the Japanese Government- not the Australian negotiators. 
The present problems within the Japanese sugar industry have been caused substantially by an over-capacity of about 20 per cent and a malapportionment of the Australian sugar by Japanese companies at the time because they thought the sugar was cheap and that therefore a commercial advantage would go to their affiliates by giving them a greater share of the Australian sugar than the non-affiliates of the trading companies which were undertaking the imports. I think it is fair to say that the Japanese industry is in very serious strife. It is most likely in as much strife as the Australian textile industry or footwear industries. But the problems are internal to Japan and have little relevance to the price of Australian sugar, which is in fact lower than the domestic price of Japanese sugar which goes through the same refineries. The malapportionment and the excess capacity, which even now is being exacerbated, are the real problems. I do not think Australia can afford to be in the position where, having negotiated a long term contract and the world price drops, it then has to sacrifice its capital investment in what is an efficient industry but where, when the price rises, it does not gain the benefit. That is in fact what we are being asked to accept. Whilst the sugar contract is being challenged we have price cutting taking place on a grand scale in the iron ore field at the moment. I would suggest that one of the things that Australia has to do as a trading nation is accept the single seller proposition, especially in relation to negotiations in Japan, on all commodities. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I draw his attention to a statement in Budget Paper No. 2 that 'apart from the Budget proposals themselves, there will be no new fiscal measures during 1 977-78 '. Is that a statement written by departmental officers and included in the Budget Papers or is it a Cabinet decision? 
-The Opposition raises this matter because it is becoming almost sickening to hear Government supporters make all sorts of protestations about the plight of rural industries. As long as I have been a member of the House, we have heard Government supporters make these sorts of protestations. We found during the period of the Labor Government, for instance, criticisms continually emanating from the then Opposition benches with specific undertakings given almost daily on what those parties- the Liberal and National Country parties- would do for rural industries. Today, and on almost every occasion, the answers to specific questions about the problems of rural industries or the state of rural industries are answered by a reference to what the Whitlam Government did or did not do. 
I would suggest at this stage that many rural industries at the moment would not mind having  Senator Wriedt  back as Minister for Primary Industry. I would suggest that the initiatives taken by that Minister, especially the establishment of the Green Paper and the discussions surrounding it which appear now to have died with the change of government, were positive ones in an area of real problems. They do not match up to the promises made by honourable gentlemen opposite but they more than match the actual achievements of honourable members opposite which are different in every respect from what they say in this House and what they say outside this House. I would like to quote one passage from a speech delivered by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to the conference of the Committee of Economic Development of Australia. He presented a table of net farm incomes as a return for capital invested- labour and management- and compared it with average weekly earnings. I do not think this table reflects the real situation but it is a statistical table which the Minister himself felt that he could use. It shows that in 1972, the year of the defeat of the then Liberal-National Country Party coalition, the average net farm income was $1 15 a week as compared with average wages of $93 a week. In the following year, 1973, average net farm incomes were $180 a week. That was the first year of the Whitlam Government. Average male incomes were $102 a week. In 1974 average farm incomes were $306 a week as against average male incomes of $1 18 a week. In 1975 they were $190 a week as against $148 a week. The gap at that stage had started to close because of the recession in world trade. In 1976 they were $172 a week as against $170 a week. The Minister has projected increases in farm incomes this year to $212 a week as against average male incomes of $190 a week. He has indicated that farm incomes in 1978 will be $199 a week. No projection of average male incomes in that year is included in the table. I read that table because it indicates the fallacy in what is said about the relative effect of Liberal and National Country Party governments on farm incomes. Farm incomes are affected by economic conditions and market availabilities. I should think that the figure of $306 reflected good market conditions and shortages in some other countries rather than Government policy during the period of the Whitlam Government; but it certainly shows that farm incomes were higher at that stage than they are now. 
The farming community is in diabolical trouble, which will not be cured by nice words, sweet phrases or complaints about what happened three, four, five or six years ago. Honourable members opposite gave undertakings that they would do something about rural industries. It is their actions and policies and what they propose to do which must be under question. Up to this stage they have not done anything of a substantial nature for rural industries. The great losers in this year's Budget allocations are the rural industries. The wool industry is a net contributor to revenue. The Budget Papers show no allocation for beef loans. They show that the animal health research project has had no funds allocated to it. I welcome the allocation of funds for quarantine facilities, but it is highly likely that at least one of those projects has had funds allocated to it which will not be spent this financial year because of difficulties with the site on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. I hope that that can be resolved. It is a serious problem. 
The major achievement by the National Country Party in this year's Budget has been to allow to slip into the Budget and into the Parliament a taxation scheme which, in its present form, seriously disadvantages farmers utilising the tax averaging scheme. Whilst the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  seeks to blame previous alterations to the taxation scheme, I think I should point out to the House that the Hayden Budget as it is called was, in fact, administered during the whole period after its passage through this Parliament by honourable gentlemen opposite, including the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)-  not by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who drafted the Budget. Therefore, the amendments which were made to it subsequently are the responsibility of the present Government, not of the introducers of that Budget. I use only one example in relation to the tax averaging scheme. A person who over the five-year period leading to the present had a total income of $60,000 would have paid $12,000 in tax under the old averaging scheme prior to the introduction of the present scheme. Under the scheme now introduced he will pay between $14,500 and $16,000 in tax. That is the differential. 
I make one other point about this: The Government made great play about the importance of the marginal tax rate and the incentive to earn additional income. A substantial proportion of actual farm incomes lie in the $70 to $1 10 a week bracket. If farmers with incomes in that bracket find it necessary to move to outside employment in order to supplement their incomes, their marginal tax rate will increase by 5c in the dollar. It will not be reduced. The marginal tax rate previously applying was 27c in the dollar, and it is now 32c in the dollar. Honourable gentlemen opposite might consider that. It disadvantages all wage and salary earners in the $70 to $110 a week bracket, which would include most juniors and many farmers. 
The other achievement of the National Country Party in this Budget is the success of the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  in having the new crude oil price policies implemented. This means severe losses to almost every primary producer in Australia. The Minister for Primary Industry indicated to the CEDA Conference that this will affect rural producers but they can look forward to prices not rising quite so fast at some time in the future when the supplies to Australia from members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries begin to increase rapidly, which obviously will take place. That is little consolation to rural producers and persons living in remote areas. For instance, a wheat farmer in Western Australia can expect to have his fuel bills increased by about $600 a year. That is a pretty heavy slug in areas where already there are depressed situations and problems with marketing and very low income levels. 
To make the matter worse- I think we should understand quite clearly what this is all abouthalf of that $600 will go to the Commonwealth Government in the form of additional taxes paid by the companies concerned, and the other half will go in windfall profits. Honourable members opposite have harped on the freight subsidy on fuel for remote areas ever since it was abolished. 
Once again we have exactly the type of response I would expect. Honourable members opposite have now been in government for two years. They have done nothing about restoring the subsidy. They ought to stop talking about something in respect of which they are prepared to take the benefit and to make political capital by talking about the disadvantage when they will not do anything about it. 
There is a proposal to introduce a wholesale prices equalisation scheme by using excise levies and an equalisation fund. That proposal would seem to me to have very great merit. I should have thought that it would have been complementary to, and could have been introduced at the same time as and as part of, the new crude oil policy. It would add approximately 0.7 of a cent per litre to metropolitan fuel prices and result in very substantial savings to persons who currently are paying up to 30c a gallon more than the basic price. That did not happen. 
It seems that in these Budget discussions rural producers have not been represented at all. The National Country Party's main thrust in this year's financial discussions has been to raise crude oil prices. Last year its main thrust was to get tax concessions for companies such as the Utah company which has benefited by $50m from budgetary decisions in the last two years. I suggest that, instead of looking backwards and saying what other people did not do, criticising and seeking to make political capital by making comfortable statements that are not backed up by action, the Government should take a look at what it can do. If it does not want to do anything it should come out and say so. I noted at question time today and in the Budget Statements that there will be no new fiscal initiatives this year. The Minister for Primary Industry has already outlined a number of new fiscal initiatives. The Prime Minister has not cleared up whether a Budget statement is a statement of government policy or whether it is just so many words. Certainly at question time today he cast severe doubt on the whole of the Budget Papers because of his refusal to say whether the Government supported what is in those Papers. 
Primary producers in the beef industry have been promised all sorts of assistance. It has not arrived. It is not in the Budget. The Minister for Primary Industry says that it will come later in the year. The House and the community is entitled to know what will come later in the year, how long it will take to arrive and how much it will cost because we have before this Parliament now estimates of expenditure and receipts for the next financial year. Nothing in those estimates indicates what will be spent on assistance to the beef industry. Will the fuel equalisation scheme be introduced or is it one of those things which the Government is looking at? Will the Government continue to criticise the Labor Party for removing the old scheme but do nothing about assisting in an area in which I think everyone now recognises that assistance- real assistanceis desirable? The previous scheme assisted relatively few, although badly disadvantaged, sections of the rural community. 
The results of this Budget have been roundly criticised by almost every responsible rural organisation in Australia. That includes people who until recently have been senior officials of one of the coalition parties which claims to speak for primary producers. I suggest that it is time we were told what is being done and what are the things for which the Government is prepared to accept responsibility. It is too easy to say- too often we hear it said- what the Government would like to be done but not what will be done. 
In a year when, for instance, tax reforms are claimed by the Treasurer to total $1.3 billion- a very substantial sum, although it is arguable whether that claim is true or false- nothing is being done about the impost of probate duties on rural estates, which have been spoken about by representatives of primary industry in this House as long as I can remember and, I suppose, as long as any other honourable member can remember. Not one single cent has been appropriated for that. The Budget gives in excess of $ 100m to the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Esso Australia Ltd and one or two other oil companies. Last year the Government was able to find $30m to give to companies such as the Utah Development Company. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I found the speech by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  rather interesting and I think it most likely had a lot to do with certain other events that have taken place earlier this week. I have to assume that the honourable member to whom the honourable member for Macarthur was referring is the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon).  The honourable member for Macarthur did not indicate who it was but I would think that the interest and concern of the honourable member for McMillan in the dairying industry in Victoria would be extremely great. 
I have to apologise to the honourable member for McMillan, but I am sure that he would have made the same speech had the opportunity presented itself. I think there are very great difficulties within the dairying industry and any form of national plan, including the abolition of the milk zones, which is currently taking place in all States, is a part of those difficulties. I do not think one can over-simplify or under-simplify the problems. I think the honourable member for Macarthur has tended to regionalise the problems tonight to a pretty narrow area. Victoria obviously produces the greater proportion of Australia's milk. Victoria produces something approaching 60 per cent of all Australia's dairy produce because it happens to be geographically and in other ways eminently suitable for the production of milk. Under the proposals which have been discussed and which are not finalised at this stage the Victorian industry is likely to suffer and to be penalised if it seeks to utilise those sections of the Constitution which would appear to, but do not in fact, guarantee freedom of trade. That is not the question I wish to raise tonight, but it is a matter which I think will not be easily solved. 
The matter I want to raise is the question of the Government's program relating to youth em- ployment training schemes. On paper the schemes have very great attraction in that they offer to young people the opportunity to obtain training for future employment. Unfortunately it is apparent that in some instances the Government assistance relative to these training schemes, which apparently is not very heavily policed, has been accepted as a subsidy for employment. What is in fact occurring is that in some instances in the work force senior women or senior men doing jobs which can be done by juniors are being dismissed in order that they may be replaced by trainees who are subsidised at $59 a week or, under the National Employment and Training scheme, at a different figure. At the end of the period of training, especially in jobs for which a low degree of skill is required as is the case in a number of these areas of employment, it is found convenient to replace with another trainee the person who has gone through the training period. This practice is becoming a little prevalent. It enables an employer to obtain a subsidised employee for a long period with no guarantee that that person will continue in employment. Apparently there is no restriction on the number of trainees that can be trained for a specific position. In these instances the purpose of the scheme is being defeated in that a person is not being trained for a position and the employer is being assisted by the Government to train a person who will not fill a position. There is a throughput of employees at a rate which will not arouse too much antagonism or comment within the Government department making the payments. Apparently there are. few checks on this situation. The employer is merely obtaining an almost permanent subsidy in respect to those employees. It is an unsatisfactory situation. People desperately looking for jobs are being used and people who normally occupy those jobs are being denied continuity of employment. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) When was he first informed of the possibility that Australian export milk products may be infected with a virus. 
What action did he take. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
What is the net cost per anum to public revenue of maintaining the necessary facilities for commercial air transport for the carriage of passengers and freight in each Suite and Territory. 
What net payments per annum are made from public moneys in respect of other forms of transport, e.g. railways, for the carriage of passengers and freight. 
How many passengers and how much freight is carried by each of these forms of transport. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
1 ) What percentage of the tobacco content of cigarettes sold in Australia is Australian leaf. 
Have substantial imports of manufactured cigarettes reduced the quantity of Australian leave used. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
Has he authorised the import of fresh potatoes from overseas during the last 12 months; if so, what quantities and from what source. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 25 August 1 977: 
Does he have any knowledge of a shortfall or anticipated shortfall, in processors' requirements for processing potatoes. 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Denison proceeding with his motion forthwith. 
I do this because I believe that, where a censure motion is moved against an honourable member in circumstances where normally it would not be expected that the motion would be debated by the House, it is essential that the House give the honourable member the opportunity to defend himself against that motion. It is possible under the Standing Orders for an honourable member to place any allegation or any type of motion on the Notice Paper and for it to remain there for the full term of a parliament. I believe it is important that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  have the right to defend himself. Therefore I have moved for the suspension of Standing Orders to permit an immediate debate. 
-This is one of the opportunities we have each year to discuss matters relating to the Parliament. Although I would like to talk at length about the estimates of the Parliament, time does not permit me to do so. Therefore I will say only one thing about the estimates of the Parliament. I am pleased to see the  Speaker  of the House to hear any occasional reference which might relate to his financial administration of the Parliament. I assure him that I do not intend to raise those sorts of matters today. I make the point that I think continuing consideration should be given to the view that the appropriations for the Parliament should be considered by the Parliament quite separately from the normal appropriations of government. The appropriation for the Parliament should stand alone. I say that for a number of reasons. One reason is that Parliament never should be in the position where its operation can be jeopardised by the political activities of political parties in the House. 
Perhaps I can refer briefly to the events of 1975. One effect of the continuing clash between the Houses of Parliament could have been that Parliament would not have had funds with which to operate during a period of national crisis. Its funds were dependent, as were those of the Government of the day, on the annual appropriations. In such a clash I think the Government most likely would have refused to put the Parliament's appropriations forward as a separate operation. The Parliament should not be jeopardised in its operations by any political clashes that may take place. More importantly, the Parliament ought to be answerable for and the presiding officers ought to be responsible for the funds which are allocated for the Parliament. It is not a government exercise. It is a responsibility of the Parliament as a whole that it fund its operations and that it justifies them. The furphy so often suggested around the place, and I suppose the Treasury would be the worst example, is that funds have to be controlled by a Minister of the Crown. I suggest that the person elected to accept responsibility on behalf of the Parliament -after all it is the members of Parliament who carry the brunt of criticism for the expenditure of funds or for wasting funds, as the case may beshould have the authority for the expenditure of those funds and also should present the estimates for the Parliament and carry them through the Parliament. This process should be part of the independence of Parliament. 
I want to raise one or two matters relating to the administration of the Parliament. In this period I believe that a change in the accommodation arrangements is absolutely essential and that changed administrative arrangements may be equally essential. It is difficult to propose change. At the moment the two Houses of the Parliament operate in the presence of five separate departments. I think this is impractical and I do not believe it adds to the efficiency of the management of this building. It is my opinion that the management of this building should be subject to very serious investigation. Possibly a joint parliamentary committee could investigate the situation. 
I believe that the creation of a department of the Parliament, responsible for the functions now carried out by the Parliamentary Library, the Joint House Department and  Hansard,  and having separate heads of those operations fitted into that department, would enable a more efficient management of the building structure than is the case at present. The departments directly responsible for servicing the two chambers would remain- the departments headed by the two Clerks- and would perform the role for which they and their officers are responsible. My proposal would have one other effect which I think would be beneficial to Parliament. It would bring the management of the remainder of the building, that is apart from the chambers and their immediate precincts, under the joint control of the two presiding officers. Apart from these two chambers, virtually all of the building is a service facility for all of the members of Parliament but there is a Une drawn to show that that half is for the Senate and this half is for the House of Representatives. 
The standard of accommodation within the building differs materially when one side is compared with the other. The accommodation on one side of the building for 127 members of the House of Representatives, excluding the Ministry and some other office holders, is sub-standard at best. On the other hand the accommodation for 64 senators is relatively good and takes in a fairly substantial area. It is not true to say that senators occupy half the building because  Hansard  and the Joint House Department occupy accommodation on the Senate side. 
The accommodation for members of Parliament ought to be in accordance with the functions that they carry out. I think the situation would be better generally if a senior administrative officer were responsible for the Public Service area of the Parliament and in charge of those functions at present covered by officers of varying rank and standing. Certainly this proposition is arguable and challenges the existing norm but 
I believe that it would assist in the management of this building. In a new Parliament House I think it would be essential to place those functions under the control of one Public Service officer who would be directly responsible for advice to the Presiding Officers. If that part of the administration would constitute a problem I do not think it would be beyond the wit of men to solve it. It is usual for the Presiding Officers to be of a light political complexion and usually they are able to agree on matters affecting Parliament House where the interests of the two Houses are not directly involved. 
I want to raise one other matter at this time because I believe it ought to be considered urgently. I refer to the secretariat of the InterParliamentary Union and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. I raise this matter because I believe that the liaison of visits of parliamentarians from other countries, especially government sponsored visits from our near neighbours, will involve a far greater area of responsibility in the near future than they do at the present time. In Australia's national interest they ought to be viewed as involving far greater responsibility. I think we should be encouraging and even sponsoring visits by parliamentarians from our Pacific neighbours and our near Asian neighbours in order to acquaint them with our system and our problems and to ensure that we have first-hand contact with them. This is in the national interest. 
I think this purpose would be better served if we had within the Parliament an office of international relations to service the IPU secretariat and the CPA secretariat as well as to operate on a much broader basis. This would result in more uniformity. It would break down the present Senate versus House of Representatives proposition which tended to grow up because of the way in which things are allocated. More importantly, I think there will be a greater spread of responsibility for the international field than is the case at the moment. We have officers who are quite competent in those areas. Quite obviously they co-operate with one another when major conferences or other such activities are held in Australia. I think they ought to be operating out of a single office which has direct responsibility. In addition, there are other parliamentary organisations around the world to which we send delegations or to which we may send delegations in the future and they could be easier serviced from a central international bureau. Delegations now go to the Council of Europe but we tend to tack such delegations on to one of the other delegations. That is an area in which we have a very direct interest. 
I raise that point at this stage because I have just been to Canada where that type of operation is carried out. All the parliamentary organisations with which Canada is affiliated are serviced through an international bureau within the Parliament. Such an arrangement provides a level of expertise and guarantees the Parliament the best possible service. Where the work load of one delegation is light another may have a heavy work load. I recommend this procedure to the Presiding Officers. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The purpose of this Bill, as set out in the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  is to provide legislative authority to meet a prospective deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund for this year. 
This legislation will give the Government the authority to seek funds to meet its deficit at such times as it sees fit. Certain matters surrounding the borrowings of the Government and the financing of its deficit, I think, ought to be brought to the attention of the House and ought to be debated much more fully than will be the case with this type of legislation. The general economic management of the Government is, to say the least, doubtful and to put it at its worst, disastrous. During 1975 it was a regular practice of present Ministers to talk down the national economy at every possible opportunity. Now those Ministers in charge of the economy have created a situation of near disaster in the Australian economy, through general mismanagement and their inability to determine economic priorities and economic policy on the basis of rational discussion and the consideration of advice. 
The facts are that Australia's economic policies at the moment are based on a seat of the pants administration. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  makes decisions on the spur of the moment and announces them on the spur of the moment. The departments concerned are quite often not even consulted about major economic decisions. I am reliably informed that a private firm of consultants, which has very close connections with multinationals, has a greater influence on government economic policy than the Commonwealth Treasury at the moment. 
I make a specific point relating to the Government's loan policies. On two occasions in recent months the Prime Minister and the Treasurer have made statements relating to future reductions in interest rates on government loans. It is coincidental that these statements were timed almost exactly with new Commonwealth loans at the existing rate of interest being advertised. The result is that people are given the impression that if they want to invest in long term securities they should invest in this loan because the next one will be at a lower rate of interest. Therefore they will not get the best possible rate. This happened on two occasions. 
There is no evidence at all that interest rates will be reduced. I can suggest only that if a member of a stock exchange made a similar statement in respect of an issue that he was making he would certainly be investigated and would most likely be prosecuted, because it is a quite improper practice to seek to influence investment in Commonwealth loans by making statements which so far have proved to be false- statements that interest rates are about to drop. I will highlight just how serious these statements are by pointing out that a State Government authority m Victoria, when advertising its loan, includes verbatim a statement made by the Treasurer of Australia as an incentive for people to invest at this stage, because interest rates are about to drop. 
There is at least substantial evidence that interest rates are not about to drop. The statements of the Prime Minister and the Treasurer have been misleading. It may be that my statement is not correct, but there certainly has been no action on this matter. I consider it is an improper practice for a national Treasurer or a Prime Minister to be making statements which will influence people's investment policy towards a particular loan unless such Ministers are prepared to give absolute guarantees that they will carry out those statements. It is not the first occasion on which that type of statement has been made by persons in the Government in an effort to influence a decision relating to the economy. We all remember that a similar statement relating to tax concessions was made by the Prime Minister immediately preceding the national wage case in March. Six weeks later he was telling this House that under no circumstances would the Government consider tax concessions as a trade-off for the unions withdrawing their claim for a wage rise based on indexation. That is one of the facts. 
There has developed a practice by the Government of making statements, designed to influence tribunals and individuals, which have no relationship at all to the facts and which, if made outside this Parliament, would be criminal. There is no question that if one tried to sell debentures in a company, told people that this was the last opportunity they had of getting 10.5 per cent on a gilt-edged basis, and told them with the sort of authority that the Treasurer has, with no intention of carrying out that statement, one would be putting out a false prospectus. That is exactly what the Treasurer and the Prime Minister have been doing. The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works in its loan raising advertising is using the Treasurer's words as part of its advertising campaign in order to fill its loan at an interest rate which is one quarter or one half per cent higher than the Commonwealth bond rate. 
-The Victorian Government is using the Treasurer's words about a reduction in interest rates. I suggest that you look at the matter. If it were done by a private individual it would be looked on as being a false prospectus. 
-The honourable member was not in the House when I made my original remarks. The facts are that the Treasurer and the Prime Minister made statements to this effect almost immediately before opening a Commonwealth loan. They stated that there would be future reductions in interest rates for Commonwealth loans but not for this loan, the implication being: Get in now if you want the high rate of interest. Certainly it was an incentive for people to buy into that particular loan. At this stage I suggest that the statements have no real consequence as far as any particular reduction is concerned. If made by a private firm they would be criminal. 
-I do not think that we do have to. The Government has made great play of the size and structure of its deficit and of the fact that it is going to be of a certain size. I think it ought to be pointed out to this House that there are wide discrepancies between the Government's accounting methods now and the accounting methods used previously in arriving at the amount of the deficit and also that a substantial proportion of the reduction in government expenditure shown in the Budget has been achieved by transferring expenditure to other areas. For instance, in the past two years over $200m of government expenditure has been transferred from the Budget Papers to the Australian Telecommunications Commission in the form of separate borrowings. The borrowings have taken place but the Government has not shown them in its Budget Papers. It has claimed that there has been a reduction in government expenditure when there has not. It is only a cooking of the books or a change in bookkeeping entries. 
The Opposition is not opposing this loan because obviously it is necessary to finance the deficit. But I suggest that it might be appropriate for the Treasurer, when he is available, to make a full statement on the economy which this House can debate at length. It is about time we had something other than ad hoc remarks from the Prime Minister, the Treasurer or other Ministers about the actual state of the economy and what the anticipations are. It is important and relevant that a major economic debate should take place in this Parliament and that it should take place on the basis of a government presented statement. This Government seems a little shy to present such a statement. 
-That was presented two months ago. Even you altered that. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 25 August 1977: 
What arrangements exist to ensure that exports of agricultural products are free of infection or infestation. 
Is product and produce inspection and testing carried out by Commonwealth, State or private organisations. 
Where export sales are affected by infection or infestation, who is responsible for payment of compensation. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
1) Is it anticipated that the Australian Wool Corporation will be able to repay to the Treasury $100m as indicated in the Budget Papers. 
If so, will this repayment be met by refinancing from private sources. 
Will this add to the cost of servicing the loan; if so, by what amount. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
Is he satisfied that unsatisfactory practices in respect of research trusts raised in the reports of the Auditor-General for 1974-75 and 1975-76 have been eliminated. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) What percentage of Australian grown tobacco offered at auction has been unsold during 1 977. 
) Have real price levels fallen during the last 5 years. 
Has his attention been drawn to claims by growers that low priced imported tobacco and tobacco products are to blame for unsold Australian grown tobacco and a fall in real price levels; if so, is there any substance in the claims. 
What corrective action does he propose to take. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
Has he had any discussions with the Tasmanian Government, concerning proposals for beet sugar plantings in Tasmania. 
Would sugar produced in Tasmania be marketed within existing marketing arrangements; if not, what effect would production have on sugar marketing and exports. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
Has he discussed with the Minister for Health irregularities in quarantine procedures in Western Australia and the issue of a letter of clearance to an infested ship in New South Wales. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) On how many occasions have Australian armed forces been placed on red alert during the last 10 years. 
) What was the date in each case. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) Will Australian labour and materials be used in the construction of the Offshore Animal Quarantine Station at Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
If not, what will be the source. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) Has the Department of Health recommended the dismissal of  Mr W.  F. Toomer, Quarantine Inspector, because of his public statement criticising quarantine inspection methods as a result of a parcel containing infected meat being passed unopened in Perth. 
Is it normal practice for quarantine officers to be disciplined if they detect infection or infestation in goods previously cleared. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry, by drawing attention to a question I placed on notice on 14 September. I asked him whether he discussed with the Minister for Health- I emphasise the word 'discussed'- the irregularities in quarantine procedures in Western Australia and the issue of a letter of clearance to an infested ship in New South Wales, the  Vishna Kalyan.  The Minister in his answer has indicated that the responsibility rests with the Minister for Health and that I should direct my inquiries to him. I ask the Minister whether in fact he has discussed these matters with the Minister for Health and pointed out the important consequences for primary industry, especially the livestock sector, of any breakdown in quarantine procedures. Does his answer to me mean that in fact he has not discussed with the Minister these very serious breakdowns in quarantine procedures? Does it mean that the Department of Primary Industry is not concerned or that the Minister is not concerned with the consequences of any breakdown in quarantine procedures? Does the answer also mean that the Minister does not consider it to be necessary to raise with the responsible Minister a matter which is of such important consequence to his portfolio? 
I do not want to delay the House, but I ask whether the Government could issue a statement, possibly next week, setting out the relevant points in the report and indicating to us when it is likely that final decisions will be made in respect of it. I note from a cursory glance at the report that it is indicated that existing arrangement should remain in operation for the remainder of this year. I understand that the report will not be made available to honourable members and to the public until the middle of next week. I think that some indication of the Government's attitude to the report ought to be given as soon as possible because its consequences, especially because of the doubtful situation of the Australian car market, could be very serious. If the position is not clarified fairly quickly there could be a disruptive effect in the industry because of uncertainty even over a period of a couple of months. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I enter this debate mainly to discuss the foreign affairs implications and activities of the Government in the Asian area, especially as that affects Australia's standing in that area. But firstly I respond to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who made a point of the fact that Australian Labor Party members were not particularly interested in the fate of people in other countries. I suggest that the honourable member was at one stage a Minister in a government which was not very interested in the local people of a certain Asian country. In fact, the Government was involved in disrupting their way of life and destroying their national interest over a considerable period. I speak of Vietnam. I also point out that I have heard less than enough from Government members about the current situation in Thailand where a right wing military dictatorship has overthrown the elected government and placed in jeopardy the future freedom of all Thai people. Unless that dictatorship changes its ways and acts in a proper and democratic way,' the result will be that a communist regime will take over in that country because that will be the alternative to the oppression which is taking place now of a people who have enjoyed freedom possibly for longer than any country in Asia. 
The Thai borders are an area of concern. Part of that concern has to do with the fact that the Army which is prepared to fight bitterly in the streets of Bangkok has not been prepared to go to those border areas and carry out its proper functions as a policing force. That has been the case for a lot of years. The Army is more important in politics than it is in defence in that country. My concern relates to the growing tendency of the Government to over-react and overstate its position in respect of our relations, with Japan especially, and with members of the Association of South East Asian Nations. Japan is Australia's most important trading partner. In a number of trading areas there are extreme difficulties at the moment. I mention our mineral exports to Japan, their carriage and price; currently negotiations on sugar and beef; negotiations which will shortly take place relating to the 200-mile fishing zone around Australia and, in all probability on the terms under which Austrafia will make uranium available to that country. 
There are two methods of approach which can be adopted. The first is that a country can negotiate responsibly but firmly on behalf of its national interests, and the second is that it can act Uke a spoiled schoolboy who expects a trading partner to react to petty threats in the manner desired. Anyone who acts in that way in the field of foreign affairs or in trade relations can only expect to be rebuked. 
As has been stated already by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the present Government has brought our relationship with Japan to a very low ebb at the present dme because it is not prepared to accept, firstly, the fact that, it is the responsibility of the Japanese negotiators and the Japanese diplomats to look to the interests of Japan- Japan is not a benevolent society; it is a major and extremely tough trading nation by any standards at any time- and, secondly, the fact that it is the responsibility of Australian Ministers and Australian officials to look after the interests of Australia and to negotiate on behalf of Australia. One of the problems which have developed over the last 12 months or so is that a number of Ministers who have travelled overseas- I speak especially of those who have visited Japan but also of those who have visited other countries- have used those visits as sounding boards in making statements about the domestic political scene in Australia. That has been to the disadvantage of Australia as a nation and it has been to the disadvantage of the Ministers concerned in the long term. 
I think we are about to send the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to Japan to mislead the Japanese further about the real state of industrial relations in Australia. It might be a good idea if at some time some effort were made to explain to the Japanese the differences between industrial relations and practices in Australia and those which have existed for many years in Japan. They are quite different. From the limited number of discussions in which I have had the opportunity to engage with Japanese businessmen I have found that their level of understanding of our system of arbitration and wage settlement is quite low. That is not the situation in the case of people who operate within Australia and within Australian industry. This is a serious matter. As I have indicated already, at the moment we have a number of important negotiations in train, including those concerned with the sugar agreement, access for beef, fishing zones, nuclear pokey and other trade areas. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  visited Kuala Lumpur and gave a prefect's lecture to the Prime Minister of Japan. I am certain that that has damaged our relations with Japan substantially. Certainly it was not received well by the Japanese and has not assisted in the sugar negotiations in any way. The only other part which the Australian Government appears to have played in the negotiations, which have been going on for more than two months now, has been to send the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  on a cursory visit to Japan to talk to the negotiators. I think it ought to be understood and accepted by both nations that it is a matter of government negotiation because the original letters were exchanged at that level. The negotiations should have taken place at that level right from the start. They should have been under the direct control of an Australian Minister. It need not necessarily be the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  or officials from his Department. 
Certainly our international relations with Japan in this field have been damaged by the clumsy, inept and, I suggest, half-hearted manner in which the Australian Government has dealt with the matter. I suggest that in the international area it is bad policy for any Australian government to abdicate its responsibilities to a tate government at the negotiating table and to allow that State government to represent itself in another country as a government of Australia or as a representative of the Government of Australia. Already we have too much of an international problem in differentiating between Australians who go abroad, who purport to represent minor city nations, and who deny their Australian citizenship when they are abroad. At least two States in Australia do that sort of thing frequently. If the reports which the Department of Foreign Affairs has of the negotiations which were conducted were made ,public in some instances people would be seeking to have the leaders of the governments involved severely reprimanded. 
I wish to deal with one other area which is equally as serious. Australia at present is coming, and in the future will continue to come, under increasing pressure in international forums from the member countries of the Association of 
South East Asian Nations and other near neighbours in Asia. At a parliamentary conference which I attended recently Australia was attacked by a succession of speakers from the Malaysian area and even by a  speaker  from Papua New Guinea for its attitude to foreign aid. I found the criticism from the latter country extremely hard to understand or to justify. But the fact is that those criticisms were made. One can only assume that in the latter case the criticism was made because of a lack of understanding of the role being played by Australia or the manner in which that role currently is being handled. In our dealings with the ASEAN countries I think clumsiness is almost at the extreme, and that clumsiness is the greatest at the very head of government. The visit of the Prime Minister to the ASEAN countries did more than anything else to exacerbate the problems. It is necessary that understanding be achieved and that rational debate take place. There are Australian interests to protect, and it is the responsibility of Australian Ministers to do that. I think that can be achieved without the necessity to make threats and wild statements which have no real relevance to the problem and which certainly do not assist in finding solutions to the problems. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) Has he satisfied himself that no Federal Minister is involved directly or indirectly in the land dealings currently under investigation by a Royal Commission in Victoria. 
Will he table in the Parliament statements of commercial interest provided by each Minister. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
Has he taken any action to ensure that the failure of the Victorian Minister for Health to take firm action on the salmonella infection in Victorian milk factories does not threaten primary producers' exports in future. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the adoption of the report by the distribution commissioners. I think I should say to the House that it might be worth while for this Government, or a future government, to consider whether reports by distribution commissioners should be accepted without approval by the Parliament. I think there is a danger, especially following recent High Court decisions, in the Parliament having to give final approval of any redistribution and not approving it unless there is a majority in favour m both Houses. This is a serious question. I think the current practice lends itself to attempts to influence commissioners by means of statements by members of Parliament. We have seen that happen in the last two or three days outside the Parliament. Some honourable members have made statements intended to indicate to the distribution commissioners that their reports may not be adopted unless they met certain criteria even through those criteria are not set out in the Electoral Act. That is a dangerous precedent. Electoral boundaries are so vital to the operation of the Parliament and to the fair representation of the community that there should be procedures in the Electoral Act whereby the reports of the distribution commissioners become final, possibly with provision for reference back by the Parliament on one occasion. I think the Parliament has sufficient authority in that it appoints at least one of the commissioners, with the appointment of the other two commissioners being practically automatic. The Parliament has a vested interest in this matter and is not necessarily capable of making an objective judgment- certainly not a judgment that is necessarily in the best interests of the community in general or the proper operation of electoral representation under the system by which we operate. The Opposition does not oppose the motion. 
I raise very briefly one matter under the Department of Social Security estimates. The Department operates substantially under the Social Services Act which lays down certain criteria for the payment or otherwise of benefits. This year on one occasion, despite court decisions, the Government acted in order to deny benefits to persons entitled to them under that Act. In fact, the most ridiculous and extreme lengths were gone to in order to prevent school leavers last year, whom the court ruled were entitled to benefits, from obtaining those benefits. To all intents and purposes, the Government acted outside the law. Because it was the Government it was able to do so. 
On one occasion to my knowledge it notified a school leaver who had fulfilled all criteria that he was rejected on the ground that he had made insufficient efforts to obtain employment. That statement from the Department was a complete fabrication and was in a standard letter that had been sent to all school leavers in that area. It was withdrawn and changed, after objection by bis parents. It would have stood against his record as a rejection because he had made insufficient efforts. In fact, he had applied for 57 jobs. The Department said that this was an insufficient effort. I suggest that if the person who wrote the letter had looked at the record he could not possibly have written such a letter. He would not have written it except for a ministerial direction carried through by the Director-General of the Department, for political purposes, to deny to people their entitlements under the law. That in my opinion is an act for which no government should be responsible. People should not be denied what they are entitled to under the law. 
We now have another situation. In Victoria there is an industrial dispute out of which the Government is seeking to make political capital. It feels that there are votes to be gained by being tough. It does not know how to be tough or how to go about the problem, so it is posturing. That is not unusual. As part of its posturing it is threatening and possibly tomorrow it will even be proposing that the Act under which people's eligibility for unemployment benefit is tested will be altered in this Parliament in order to deny people retrospectively the benefits to which they are entitled. It is not unusual for the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to wish to punish those people who work for their living and who therefore disrupt his idea of the ideal society whereby those who have should have and be able to spend and those who have not should not scourge the earth by continuing to exist. That seems to be the policy which back bench supporters of this Government are also supporting. 
If the Cabinet makes that decision tomorrow I am sure that those people will be in this House supporting a proposition whereby persons, through not fault of their own other than that they work for wages in industry, will not receive what the Social Security Act says they are entitled to receive. I suggest that some honourable members might read that Act. People will be denied retrospectively those benefits by changes in the legislation. It is quite clear that the Government is at least considering this proposition. The fact that it is considering it is evidence beyond doubt that it believes that spite is better than responsibility and that confrontation is better than harmony. It is proposing to put to this Parliament and certainly it has discussed at Cabinet level a proposition whereby persons who like the school leavers earlier this year, are entitled to benefits under the law established by this Parliament and standing for many years will be denied their entitlements. That is an act which no government should be supporting in this Parliament but I am certain that every honourable member on the 
Government back bench will support legislation to that effect tomorrow. 
In one plant in my electorate, the Ford Motor Company, 2,700 employees have been stood down. They would be eligible for unemployment benefit tomorrow if other criteria did not prevent their eligibility. They are not involved in the strike. They are not party to the strike. They certainly cannot by any imagination meet the criteria in the Act for direct involvement in an industrial dispute. But the Government is quite prepared to deny those people unemployment benefit which is the wherewithal to live in order to show just how tough and important some of the Ministers are. They cannot think of anything constructive to do about the economy. 
I may be guessing but the matter is being seriously considered. It is certainly being put forward by your Government. If you are prepared to deny it I shall be very happy to hear your denial. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)The  honourable member for Corio will direct his remarks through the Chair. 
You are not speculating because you know the result. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  The honourable member for Corio will direct his remarks through the Chair. 
You might take the trouble,  Mr Chairman,  to speak to the interjector. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
Is the inability of a company to offer financial inducements outside the indexation guidelines because of government policy a disincentive to increased productivity. 
If not, what compensation or reward for increased effort can employees of individual companies expect within government policy, where they are able to increase PrO.ductivity as compared with competing organisations in the same field and covered by the same awards. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
Have additional taxi and hire car licences recently been issued in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What licence fee and initial issue costs were charged to new operators. 
) Were existing (a) taxi and (b) hire car operators given additional licences at a lower rate; if so, why, and at what rate. 
Was he informed that illegal supplementary hire cars were operating prior to the new licences being issued; if so, did he approve priority issue of licences to illegal operators. 
Were issues of concessional licences to existing licence holders made in respect of vehicles previously operated illegally as vehicles supplementary to the actual licensed vehicles. 
If so, does this action constitute a benefit granted by the Government as a reward for ignoring the law. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) How many (a) taxi and (b) hire car licences exist in the Australian Capital Territory. 
How do these numbers compare with similar areas in the States. 
Have any surveys been conducted to determine the waiting period (a) at taxi ranks and (b) for telephone bookings. 
Is he satisfied that the public is not being seriously disadvantaged by the diversion of large numbers of taxis to Commonwealth use during peak use periods. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 August 1 977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to claims that a number of previously excluded insect pests have been introduced into Australia with cut flowers, imports of which have been expanded substantially. 
If so, has he had these claims investigated and were they found to have any substance. 
What pests have been introduced in this manner. 
If introductions have occurred, what action has been taken to prevent a recurrence. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
How many applications for Australian citizenship have been rejected during (a) 1975, (b) 1976 and (c) 1977 to date. 
What were the major grounds for rejection. 
How many rejected applicants had been in Australia (a) 3, (b) 4, (c) 5, (d) 6 and  (e)  7 or more years. 
Have any of the rejected citizenship applicants been (a) deported and (b) advised to leave Australia permanently. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) Has the design and construction team for the National Animal Health Laboratory project been dismissed. 
If so, what sum would be required to keep the project team employed on the project. 
-by leave-The Opposition welcomes any international commodity agreement which offers effective long-term markets and prices for Australian primary products. I emphasise the word 'effective' because in the past international agreements have frequently been nothing but statements of good intentions. I concur with the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Anthony)  that the negotiations leading to the conclusions of the members of the most recent International Sugar Agreement have been extraordinarily complex and difficult. Four years ago the last sugar agreement expired in an atmosphere of very high free market sugar prices. It has taken four years of hard labour to reach another agreement. The Minister has created a favourable impression about the new Agreement and unless one reads his statement carefully it is easy to reach the conclusion that the worst is over and sugar producers can look forward to a period of stability. The London  Financial Times  on 8 October accurately described the Agreement as one which offers in the main indeed the only hope at present of coping with the very serious situation for sugar producers created by prices falling well below production costs. The Minister clearly shares this view but fails to extend his analysis of some of the problems that could arise. 
The conclusion of the Agreement at a time of depression in the industry, the threat of substantial sugar surpluses and the growing competition from corn syrup and other substitutes could not disguise the fact that a number of matters have not been explained in adequate detail. At this stage it is not absolutely certain that the Agreement will be effective. The Deputy Prime Minister and his Government are reaping the whirlwind of assurances of a hopeful outlook to beef producers several years ago and appear to be going the same way with the sugar industry. It should be made absolutely clear that this Agreement at best gives a minimum hope only. As honourable members will be aware a copy of this Agreement is not available and it is therefore impossible for this Parliament to examine the fine print in detail. The details are still being sorted out in Geneva and it is likely that the final copy of this document will not be received in Australia for at least three weeks. In addition, as the Minister points out, the Agreement still has to be considered by governments of all sugar exporting and importing countries before it is finally ratified to come into operation on 1 January 1978. In view of the pressures which have been building up in the United States and the dissatisfaction in Brazil, in particular, about aspects of the Agreement, there is no certainty that the Agreement will be ratified by all members in its present form. 
It must be remembered also that this Agreement covers only a small proportion of the sugar that goes into world trade. The world trade sugar stands at about 85 million tonnes annually but this Agreement will cover 16 million tonnes which goes into the free market. The international market for sugar does not include agreements which exist between the European Economic Community, French Caribbean and Pacific countries under the Home Convention, Cuba and the Soviet Union. It does not include international trade between countries which are members of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance or trade within the EEC. Thus the price of sugar in a country such as the United Kingdom is not affected by this Agreement. The United Kingdom price is fixed under the EEC common agricultural policy. In summary, it means that the world market consists of the residual supplies exported over and above the special trade and domestic arrangements. It also should be made clear that the EEC is not a signatory to the new International Sugar Agreement. The Minister said: 
The EEC, until represented, did not play a prominent part in the negotiations because it did not receive a mandate to do so until the eleventh hour of the conference. It has been left to the EEC to negotiate its terms and accessions after the Agreement is entered into force. 
It ought to be pointed out that the reason for the EEC not being involved is that the French refused to allow the EEC to subscribe to the idea of export quotas. In addition, the EEC recently has authorised the export of raw sugar and has assisted that by granting increased subsidies. The French argument is that export, aided by subsidies where necessary, is an integral part of the common agricultural policy. Without this freedom to export, it is highly likely that a large mountain of sugar will build up in the EEC this year. This is because the expected sugar beet crop plus 1.3 million tonnes of cane sugar imports will produce nearly three million tonnes surplus to likely demands in the Community. Already the EEC has been exporting large quantities of sugar to world markets, with an export subsidy often higher than the price obtained for the sugar. 
On the basis of the precedent of the International Wheat Agreement it is quite likely that France will wait to see whether the minimum price of $217 a tonne is effective and then offer surplus sugar for sale just below that price. It then becomes a question of for how long the Agreement will hold up. On the basis of the precedent in the wheat industry, the Sugar Agreement has the possibility of being nothing more than a piece of paper. If it collapsed it would be a great shame because, as the Minister rightly pointed out, this is the first of a series of agreements which have been concluded under the auspices of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development integrated commodities programs. The success of the Sugar Agreement will influence the operation of other agreements, and it is essential, especially for the developing countries, that the International Sugar Agreement should work both in the spirit and in the letter. 
The critical question is whether countries such as France and even to some extent the United 
States will allow it to work. Australian growers would be particularly disappointed if the Agreement did not work because they have made quite considerable sacrifices in terms of export quotas. While the reduction of approximately 15 per cent in the amount of sugar likely to be exported would not influence mill peaks in the short run, it would prejudice maintenance of these peaks and stability in the industry. Australia received a quota of approximately 2.3 million tonnes of raw sugar for export, whilst Cuba received the largest export quota- 2.5 million tonnes- closely followed by Brazil. Cuba traditionally has been, since Fidel Castro's accession to power, a supplier of sugar to the USSR. It now would appear that either Soviet consumption has declined or some of its previous requirements which were filled by imports are being satisfied by increased local production. Because of Cuba's proximity to the United States and the improved trade relations between those two countries, Cuba clearly will improve its access to the United States market. In the long term there is some possibility that Australia may suffer. In view of the efficiency of the Australian industry there is probably some feeling that countries such as Cuba have done extraordinarily well out of this new arrangement. 
I turn now to some specific matters which the Minister has raised. I realise that the question of stock holdings is an important matter in the integrated commodities program. The Minister indicated in his statement that the cost of storing reserve stocks would be shared between exporters and importers. It would be appreciated if at some stage he could explain why reports, particularly in the European Press, have been firm in indicating that it will be the exporters only who will bear the storage costs. I quote again from the London  Financial Times  of 8 October: 
The reserve stocks will be financed by levy on exports, with financial assistance being provided to the poorer countries to help them with storage. 
I think it is important that we have the Agreement as soon as possible in order to establish the correct position. The Minister has not explained whether the Queensland cane grower, the Queensland Government or the Australian Government will bear the cost of storage in Australia. Australia has one of the most sophisticated storage systems in the world. There is little doubt that it would be capable of holding 300,000 to 400,000 tonnes of raw sugar in reserve. However, it is important from an industry point of view that at a very early stage it should be clearly stated who will bear the cost of holding the stocks. I am unsure about the Minister's statement on the formula for the accumulation of stocks. He talked about a rate of 40 per cent, 40 per cent and 20 per cent in the first, second and third years respectively; but the base figure on which those percentages were taken was not clear. I think this matter also should be clarified. 
The Minister talked in detail about quotas and stock holdings operating when prices are low, and the quota suspension and the release of stocks when prices rise towards the maximum. Are we to presume that this will be an administrative decision? If so, will it be made by the ISA or by a meeting of the signatories to the ISA from the exporting side? It would be helpful if the Minister would indicate whether there is some trigger point at which the stocks will commence to be released on a uniform basis from each of the major exporting countries. 
Like many of the sugar producers both within Australia and overseas, I am concerned about the impact of corn syrup substitutes. Whilst the Opposition has no quibble with producers getting the best price possible, there has been no assessment in the Minister's statement of whether the price levels set in the new International Sugar Agreement will preclude and discourage competition from sugar substitutes. Traditionally it has been a practice in some countries to ban the use of these artificial sweeteners, but consumer pressure has led to the lifting of these restrictions. In the realities of a market type economy, particularly in the United States of America, the threat of increased substitution at higher price levels is a reality. It would be helpful both to the industry and to the public generally in Australia if some assessment could be provided of the relationship between the price ranges set by the ISA and the projected prices of sugar substitutes. 
I now turn briefly to the question of Japan. I am well aware that negotiations with the Japanese are at a very delicate stage and that the solution to the long standing problem may well arise this week. I was pleased to hear on the  Country Hour  on Monday that the  Deputy  Prime Minister takes a slightly more rational and less emotional view towards negotiations with our major partners than does the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It is a great shame that the Prime Minister, rather than the  Deputy  Prime Minister, chose to intervene. This could delay the resolution of the problems in respect of the Australia-Japan Sugar Agreement. There is no doubt in my mind that one of the reasons for the 
Japanese delaying a decision was the Prime Minister's procrastination about making a firm statement on the Australian dollar in the middle of September. 
Any country purchasing from Australia would be crazy to enter into a solution when devaluation was imminent. In addition, the Prime Minister's breach of protocol in releasing his discussions with the Japanese Ambassador would not have helped the situation and must have undermined with the Japanese the standing of the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade. Whilst I believe that it would have been desirable for the Minister for Overseas Trade to have been in Japan at a much earlier stage, it appears that he at least has some better sense than the Liberals on how to continue international trade negotiations. Instead of the Prime Minister and his fledgling, the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard),  rushing into subjects they know little about they would be better off leaving them to  Mr Anthony  and his Department. 
It should have been obvious to this Government that with the drop in world prices since 1974 and the fragmentation of the structure of the Japanese sugar processing industry problems would arise. Most of these problems had to be dealt with at a government level and were outside the strict commercial nature of the negotiations between CSR Limited acting as agents and the Japanese importers. Hopefully, the problem with this contract will be solved and the signing of the International Sugar Agreement might at least make the Japanese realise that there is a floor in the market. However the strength of that floor would be considerably helped by the European Economic Community becoming a signatory to the International Sugar Agreement. Until the final document has been seen and the European Economic Community has become a signatory, the Opposition remains very cautious about the value of the new Agreement. However, it makes it clear to the Government and the industry that it would work extremely hard to ensure its effective operation over the five-year period. 
-In debating the estimates for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs I want to raise one or two specific matters. The first concerns the provisions of services for migrants. I think that the time has long passed when migrant services can be turned on and off at will. I think that it is important that where migrants themselves take initiatives in order to provide services which are required to the migrant communities on the basis of wishing 

<graphic href="107131197710132_73_0.jpg"></graphic>

to assist within their communities then the Government should be prepared to give serious consideration to their efforts. I raise one specific case- a migrant assistance office which was set up in Geelong West. It was opened by  Senator Lewis  almost immediately after his swearing in to this Parliament on behalf of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  who, at that stage, had responsibility for the Australian Assistance Plan- the scheme under which this office was established. 
At the time of the official opening the office had six months to live because the Australian Assistance Plan was about to run out of time. As we have heard on a number of occasions from the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  the continuance of this plan was an undertaking given by the Government during the last election campaign but it was not honoured. This particular office was established by a committee of migrant groups in my electorate, including the Croatian and Yugoslav community, the Italian community and a number of other migrant communities in the area. It was providing a translator-interpreter service and also an advice service. Its original funding, as I indicated, was through the Australian Assistance Plan. It was obvious long before the funds for the Australian Assistance Plan cut out that a new source of funding would be required. Applications were made to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs for a grant-in-aid but these were rejected. 
Applications were made to the Minister's Department but they were rejected on the grounds that the funds available were committed to metropolitan areas. I know that there are arguments about where the funds were committed in those areas. But my complaint is that no consideration was given to the allocation of funds to a project in a nonmetropolitan area and, I think I should point this out, an area in which more than 25 per cent of the total population is migrant. The migrants are primarily of European origin and a substantial proportion of them are of East European origin. They are people who are entitled to expect some assistance in their efforts to provide for their communities the sort of services which they are entitled to expect. 
 Unfortunately, for too long migrants were brought to Australia purely on the basis that when they leave the boat they cease to be anyone's responsibility. They were fed into factories where Australians would not normally work. When they had been there long enough to learn that there were better jobs they left and another supply of migrants was brought on the scene to fill their places. Some of the plants have now learnt that migrants have had to stay in those jobs because there are no other jobs to go to; on the other hand, for the plants concerned there are no other suppliers of employees and they have had to raise the conditions of employment. However, that involves the estimates of another department. 
I raise this matter because there is concern that this office I mentioned, which is struggling along on what is substantially reduced funding- in fact, quite inadequate funding-will shortly have to close. This then will take away from the migrants in that area the only services which are really available to them. Some 12 months to two years ago a decision was made to relocate offices of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to the Geelong area. That decision has not been carried through, I presume because of lack of funding. In Geelong an officer is working in the immigration area with the Department of Social Security. But with such a large migrant population there is a great demand for direct migrant services in that area and they are just not provided. They were provided up until the time immigration became part of the Department of Labor and Immigration. The services were then provided by an officer within that Department. Following the division of that Department the officer who had previously undertaken that work became part of the Commonwealth Employment Service and no replacement officer has been available since. The Commonwealth Employment Service is not able to carry the additional work load of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The Commonwealth Employment Service is overworked already because of the high rate of unemployment in that area. Unemployment is also a greater problem for migrants than it is for the majority of the community. 
I put before the Minister the urgent need for the establishment of services for migrants in the Geelong area. I put it to him that these services were provided in the past and I think the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs has a responsibility to provide those services in the future. It is unsatisfactory that a person seeking attention has to travel to Melbourne and wait until such time as the service can be provided, or travel backwards and forwards. This is especially so in view of the very large migrant population in that area. I think that currently there are 36,000 migrants in the Geelong area and that ought to be enough to warrant the services of at least one officer of the Department. I am certain that if the Department's services were divided it would be very doubtful whether each officer serviced that number of people. I think that the cost of servicing from Melbourne as at present is most likely more than is required. 
I raise another matter in this area and that is citizenship. I think that the delays in gaining citizenship are too long. I think insufficient effort is being made to inform people of the need of citizenship. This is especially the case with nonEuropean migrants. By that I mean migrants from British Commonwealth countries who are entitled to place their names on the electoral rolls without the requirement of citizenship. In many cases people believe that that gives them citizenship. I know of cases where people have had to leave Australia in a hurry because of the sickness of a relation or someone else overseas. They have suddenly found out that they are not Australian citizens. They have had to go through all sorts of exercises at that stage to get a British passport or they have had to become an Australian citizen in very short order. When the matter is absolutely urgent usually some temporary arrangement can be made. But the situation is unsatisfactory. 
I think it would do no harm if some effort were made to inform these people that if they wish to become Australian citizens they have to take more steps than merely placing their names on the electoral roll. I think that citizenship for a person who qualifies by reason of residence and other considerations should be made as simple as possible. I find it extraordinarily hard to understandI am looking at an answer that the Minister gave yesterday- how a person who has lived in Australia for more than seven years and who is to be allowed to remain here can be deemed to be a person unfit to be a citizen. I know that citizenship places upon a person very few real privileges that permanent residence does not. Some of the things a person without citizenship is denied are the right to join some of the State superannuation schemes or State public services and the right to vote at elections. As I say, I find it hard to understand why people who are to be allowed to remain in Australia for the rest of their lives are denied-in small numbers I must saycitizenship. Let me make a point of what can and does occur where this type of restriction is placed upon people. A gentleman in Victoria named Johnny Sgro, an Italian, was denied citizenship under a former government but was granted citizenship during, I think, the ministry of  Mr 
Grassby. He will in 1979 become a member of the Victorian Parliament. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What is the current level of wool stocks held by the Australian Wool Corporation giving the quantities of each type of classification. 
What changes have occurred in stocks held during the last 12 months. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
Did the Minister approve of the decision to remove trade .unions from the list of organisations and persons who receive gratis copies of the quarterly magazine of the Department of Social Security. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 1 4 September 1977: 
What is the anticipated date of (a) commencement and (b) completion of the Offshore Animal Quarantine Station at Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
Is the site available free of encumbrance. 
What percentage of the sum provided in the 1977-78 Budget for this project is expected to be actually expended during 1977-78. 
-The Oilseeds Levy Bill 1977 and the Oilseeds Levy Collection and Research Bill 1977 are designed to establish a fund for research in the oilseeds area by imposing on oilseed producers a levy which will be matched on a $ 1 for $ 1 basis from a government grant. The amount of funding involved is of the order of $200,000 a year from each source and therefore does not constitute a substantial research fund in an area which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  indicated was one of the potentially significant growth areas in primary industry. I am not sure that I can agree with the Minister's summation of the situation. I think that the research would have to be extremely successful before that was likely to occur. I am not sure that this is not another case of giving encouragement to an industry before it has been proved that investment in it is soundly based. I think in the past there have been too many occasions on which encouragement to expand production has been offered quite often as a political ploy to draw attention away from other areas. In a number of cases that has ended tragically for those who have accepted that advice. I draw attention to the advice in about 1964 that pear production should be expanded and to the advice in early 1970 that beef production should be expanded. Neither of those two pieces of advice was found to be good. In both instances the growers who took the advice and the government which gave it suffered significant financial loss because of it. 
The Opposition generally supports the principle of industry funding, with matching government contributions, for research into rural industries. That same sort of principle has been adopted in relation to the wheat, wool and meat industries. Unfortunately in the area of oilseeds there is no single organisation which covers oilseeds producers, although in the legislation the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation is written in as a representative and an organisation with apparent veto powers over government actions in this field. I think it is fair to say that the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation does not represent the majority of oilseed growers. A number of other organisations would claim to have some right to a say in the operation of the levy and future changes in the Acts concerned. 
One concern which the Opposition has to express is that there is no suggestion that the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation Oilseeds Committee should be expanded to include representatives of oilseed growers who belong to other organisations which are not now covered and which in some instances have been refused access to the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation. I do not wish to judge the viability or otherwise of primary producer organisations, their effectiveness or their professional competence, but it has been suggested by at least one academic that the influence of the Australian Wheatgrowers' Federation over the present Government is such that it has acted to the detriment of the industry in the wheat area. If that is the case - 
-That may or may not be true. I am only quoting someone else. If that is the case it is unfortunate that in this legislation the Government has chosen to exclude other organisations such as the Graziers Association of Victoria, the Stockowners Association of South Australia and the Tasmanian Orchardists and Producers Ltd which have significant memberships among oilseed growers. The application of this Bill to actual research is in line with the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission on rural research and it indicates that the Government has at least moved to commence consideration of those recommendations. We await with some interest the Government's recommendations on the remainder of that report. Oilseeds have not, as the Minister for Primary Industry has indicated, shown a massive increase or potential for a massive increase in the last few years. There was a significant increase in 1969 following the imposition of quotas on wheat production, when oilseeds were chosen as an alternative source of production. There have been major fluctuations- by as much as 50 per cent- in the crop sizes over recent years. 
Oilseed oils are the major product and they are obtainable outside Australia in fairly substantial quantities. In fact in some areas we have considerable restrictions on their entry. I suggest that any useful research which is authorised from these funds- as I say, the funds are limited, and that seems to be the norm- in areas of primary production may well fall short of gaining the sorts of results which would be of tremendous value merely because of the methods by which research funds are allocated. By that I mean that it may well be that beef growers, wheat growers or some other section of primary industry may stand to gain more from some alternative means of utilising their properties and competence. But because of the manner in which the research is controlled and conducted, in that it is limited largely to the existing amount of revenue from those sources and also to revenue derived from a particular source, research in a new area could be severely or dangerously limited, to the disadvantage of all concerned. 
The Opposition does not oppose these Bills but draws attention to what appears to be an unsatisfactory position in the total allocation and operation of research funds. In this instance the Opposition wants to point out that it feels that those oilseed growers who have a responsibility to pay the levy should have access to the decisionmaking and recommending process which is set out in the Bill and should not be excluded by the terms of the Bill. One of the sentences in the Minister's second reading speech states that cooperation of all sections of the industry has been achieved. If that is so, it should not be necessary to allocate the advice and consultative sections of the Bill to one organisation of a number of organisations which have oilseed growers representative in them. I am informed that at least one of those organisations has been denied access to the oil growers committee of the Australian Wheatgrowers ' Federation. 
If, as the Minister claims, this industry is one of the potential growth industries within the primary industry field, it may well be questionable whether the allocations of funds involved are realistic. If it is an area in which primary producers can look forward to rapid growth, in which a national benefit would be derived from that rapid growth and in which markets are available- all things which, I have to say, are doubtful- if that is the view of the Government I would have to question the Government's position on the matter because it is quite obvious that one or two of the areas into which research is urgently required are levels of production and varieties which will suit Australian conditions best, which will suit regional conditions best and which will bring about the best returns. This research is certainly required into production of oilseeds of a low fibrous nature, because it is the oil which is the substantial product as far as the market place is concerned, and this is the area into which Australian production can make its best contribution. At the moment we are large importers of vegetable oils. 
Finally I make the point that it is not necessarily true to say that at the moment oilseeds are a primary crop other than in one or two instances. In some areas there have been significant drops in the area of production while in others there have been changes in the level of production, usually associated with seasons, the price of wheat and availability of wheat lands for use in the oilseed area. I repeat what I said before: If the Government believes, as the Minister has said, that this is an area in which significant advantage can be derived from investment in research, this Bill does not seek to take advantage of those significant advances and, I think, reflects the Government's position on this matter in that it is introducing a research fund on the same basis as for other industries but not really believing the words that have been mouthed by the Minister in this House as to the future of the industry. It is an industry which obviously has potential but there is also significant progress to be made in production, types, varieties and other areas of research which will not be made with the types of money which will be derived from this legislation. 
-First of all, I would like to comment on an announcement made earlier by the Minister for Overseas Trade and  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  relating to a partial agreement reached with the Japanese in relation to sugar contracts. If I heard the Minister correctly, he indicated that it was his understanding- my understanding is that this is not factual- that the price agreed upon for the 200,000-odd tonnes of sugar which is currently on the water or in Japanese ports is $386 a tonne. That price represents a drop of approximately $20 a tonne on the original contract price. The question to be asked is this: Who is to pay the costs incurred by some of the ships which have been waiting around for some considerable time and which were in fact under contract to CSR Ltd. The actual agreement represents a loss on the contract price at its initial negotiated rate of some $4m. The remainder of the contract has still to be negotiated. 
When speaking last Thursday on the statement made in relation to the sugar agreement I indicated that I felt that the speech made by the Minister for Overseas Trade was at least better than the approach adopted by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in this particular area. I think I should say also that the problem of negotiating the sugar contract in Japan has always been one that should be dealt with on a government to government basis. If I may say so, any negotiations which have taken place between the Queensland Government and its agent, CSR as negotiators, with the trading companies in Japan, Mitsui and Mitsubishi, in fact were nothing more than shadow sparring operations until such time as the Japanese Government was persuaded to intervene as it did in the initial stages. It fixed a price at that time because of the shock of the oil crisis. The Japanese Government was insisting on fixed commodity price agreements, a number of which it is now trying to renegotiate. Until the intervention of the Japanese Government there was no prospect whatsoever of a settlement to the dispute. It could not be settled between the trading companies who had the carriage of the contracts in Japan and the Australian sugar industry. The problem was one of market shares in Australian sugar in Japan, an over capacity in Japan for refined sugar, and the fact that the trading companies in Japan allocated the Australian sugar contracts which at the time were at a price lower than the world price and which were based on other than market shares applying to sugar refineries in that country. 
Only by redefinition of that allocation, which would be done only at a government level, could the situation be overcome. The independent companies were not likely, nor could they be expected, to give up the advantage that they had gained because of the drop in world prices in order to satisfy the needs of Mitsui and Mitsubishi and the trading offshoots of those companies, when in fact those companies had acted to disadvantage the independent operators in the first instance. 
One of the obvious problems in this instance was that a sharp commercial practice had backfired because the price drop was substantial. About two weeks ago it was indicated that the Japanese Government had in fact introduced legislation to re-organise on a temporary basis the Japanese sugar industry and to reallocate the Australian contract on a market share type arrangement. When that legislation is passed it will put the Japanese companies in such a position that their trading situation is on a relatively equal basis in that they will be paying the same price for imported sugar as they do for locally produced sugar. 
The point I am making and the point I think ought to be made to the Committee is that these circumstances should have been quite well known to the Government. If they were not well known to the Government three months ago Government members had only to read the  Far Eastern Review  of about 8 August to get an assessment of the internal situation in the Japanese sugar market place. I have no doubt that the Government was fully aware of the situation; CSR certainly was. A government to government position and a Minister to Minister position was absolutely necessary in the early stages of this dispute, before it blew up into a confrontation situation about the middle of the year. I think that the Government was tardy in that regard. I believe that the Minister for Overseas Trade should have been in Japan negotiating with the Japanese authorities in July and at the latest, in August. He visited Japan for one day at that point. When I was in Japan in August reports were circulating that he would be visiting Japan some time later in the fall to conclude the negotiations. The Minister subsequently said that he had not made that statement but that he had made a statement which had been misconstrued in the Japanese Press but which did have an effect on the negotiations, as did the discussions on and the delays in dealing with the uncertainty surrounding the Australian currency. The problem was that it had to be negotiated on a political level. I believe that settlement to date has been delayed because those political negotiations have not been carried through sufficiently to press the Japanese Government to take the action which ultimately it has taken. I think it is also important that we should understand that the Japanese were extremely offended at the manner in which their Prime Minister was confronted by our Prime Minister. Rather than discuss the matter on an equal basis with the Prime Minister of one of the four or five major trading nations of the world, he sought to give a principal's lecture to one of his students. That did not help the matter, and that is what I was referring to when I spoke in the debate last Thursday. At least the Minister for Overseas Trade dealt with it as though we were negotiating a problem. 
I think it is also important that the Committee understands that contracts for Australian goods are only as strong as the manner in which agreement is reached and the manner in which they are supported in Australia. Unfortunately we as a trading nation are in the position where we do not seek to sell our goods to a buyer. We seek to let the buyer purchase our goods. The weakness of our position is shown by recent undercutting by mineral companies in seeking orders with Japan, to the detriment of Australia as a whole, and by the fact that we send multiple sellers into markets to sell our primary products in many areas, beef being one. Rather than maximising the price being received by the Australian grower, we trade on the basis of minimising the price for our goods sold on the international market places. 
Certainly in the case of primary products sold in Japan there is no evidence that the Japanese purchased other than on a single buyer basis and we are sending two and three companies into the area to sell the same beef. That is virtually what it amounts to. It may be that the price we get could not be altered greatly but certainly we are going to get the worst possible price if we have three people bidding against one another for a sale, knowing full well that there is only one buyer and that the buyer will accept the lowest price offered to him. Recently we have had cuts in the price of raw materials provided to Japan because the capital investment in some of our mineral companies is such that they cannot afford not to have a continued cash flow, and they cannot have a continued cash flow if orders and contracts are held up. Hence we have the situation where most likely we have already an over-capitalisation and over-capacity to supply. Therefore we are forcing ourselves into a market place situation where we are bidding to be the lowest price provider in the market place rather than maximising the price which is available. I think it is fair to suggest that much more consideration ought to be given to obtaining the best price for commodities as well as the quantity of those commodities which are sold. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade mentioned an international sugar agreement. The whole basis of that agreement is that there will be virtually one export price for sugar on a world-wide basis. Yet in the market place in too many commodities in which we trade overseas and which we are able to sell we are advantaging the buyer by competing against ourselves for orders which should be sought and obtained on a national basis. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian Robinson)  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I think it is just as well that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  had only five minutes or he might have shifted the Gold Coast and all to Tasmania. Seriously, I want to raise a matter which has been debated in this chamber in the past and which will be debated here in the future unless the Government decides to take some action on it. As most honourable members will be aware, a number of questions, mainly on notice, have been asked about quarantine matters. They basically surround problems concerning an individual. First of all, I hope that the quarantine service in Australia is not judged on the rights and wrongs of the Public Service administration of the Department in respect of that individual. Enough doubt has arisen about the effective administration of the quarantine service to cause considerable concern. Quarantine is of vital importance to significant industries in Australia and any outbreaks of exotic diseases could cause fairly substantial losses of export markets, especially those relating to food products. We have had a couple of scares lately which on estimate could cost up to $50m a month. That is a conservative estimate. 
The point I raise is that since at least the early 1970s there have been plans of various kinds to construct an animal health research laboratory to provide the means by which serums and vaccines can be developed, animal diseases can be researched and, where necessary, proof of eradication can be established. It is the latter that is the most important single factor in this area. A decision to proceed with this project was taken in 1974. Work had commenced on the design and the preparatory work. By the end of 1975 the Joint Committee on Public Works had examined and approved the project which was to be established in Geelong. With a change of government there was a cessation of the project. It was eventually slowed down and has reached the stage where it is now virtually not proceeding. The project is back in the pre- 1972 situation where it was looked upon as a non-urgent project. Therefore it will be funded when funds happen to be available. There is a lead time of 8 years before the project would be operational, if it were commenced tomorrow. The lead time and the fact that the Government is procrastinating on the question add to the risks involved. If our quarantine services were absolutely perfect risks would still occur every day because of the number of people who walk off aeroplanes and various other means of travel. It is an important project. The problem which would arise in any outbreak of exotic disease, especially in cattle or sheep, would be in proving eradication. I would imagine that vaccines would be used only as a protective measure. Actual slaughter would be the means of eradication. Proof of eradication would have to be made after that before access to export markets would be re-opened. At the moment there is no place of easy access for live stock or carcases to be taken for examination in order to prove eradication of an exotic disease. 
I repeat the point I made before: We are talking about a project which will cost less than $100m. That represents less than two months delay in the proof of eradication. The Government, I think, has to make a decision on whether this project should go ahead immediately or whether the Government is prepared to gamble with that sort of money and with the livelihoods of substantial sections of the Australian community. I think it is an important matter that should be above party lines. It is an area in which the Government's actions in deferring the project now for two years must be seriously questioned. I suggest to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in whose charge the primary responsibility for this matter lies, that he should be pressing for funds to be made available. It is extremely important for the industries under his charge. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether in his election broadcast of 11 September he indicated that the proposed rural bank would be a statutory organisation and whether  Senator Cotton  in another place repeated that statement last week. Is it a fact that the Government is currently in negotiations with the private banks for the establishment of a rural bank within the private banking structure? Does this mean that the Government has dropped the proposition for a statutory organisation? Does it also mean that the expertise in these matters which the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia has is to be ignored and that the operations and management of the proposed bank are to be placed under the control of the private banking system? 
I think it is fair to say that a nation in trouble depends on the unity of its people in order to emerge from that trouble. The most obvious example of that is the manner in which a nation is cajoled into patriotism during a period of war. I think it is fair to say also that a nation that is divided can be manipulated politically but can achieve little. Further, I think it is fair to say that the policies of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  extended over a long period are policies of advancement by division. 
-If the honourable member wants to make a speech I suggest that he see his Whip so that he can get to his feet. I point out to the House that this Government has taken more policy initiatives designed to divide the people of Australia against themselves than any government possibly since Federation and certainly in modern times. 
I would like to give the House some examples. During his period as Minister for Education the present Prime Minister played very heavily on the disputes and divisions in the community which derived from the State aid arguments which were a deep seated area of community concern. Those divisions were healed by the adoption of proper measures which took into account consideration of the needs of the education system, namely the establishment of the schools commissions which were opposed in this place by the present Prime Minister. If I may say so- and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  might agree with this- this legislation was passed through this Parliament only as a result of the good sense of the National Country Party of Australia over and above the obstinancy of the Liberal Party. 
Since his return to office the Prime Minister has again sought to revive the State aid argument and in this year's Budget we have clear evidence of that attempt. The move to take away moneys from the State school and parish school systems and to transfer it to class A schools is not a matter of financial management or monetary allocation. It would not have been difficult for the Government to provide to class A schools the amount of money it felt necessary in addition to making allocations to the other areas of education. But the Prime Minister chose to evoke the State aid argument by turning those schools in need in the State school system against class A schools to which moneys were being transferred. It was a deliberate act to divide the community. It was an act in line with the normal policies practised by the present Prime Minister of Australia. 
In the field of health, we have seen a double standard introduced by the alterations that have taken place to the Medibank scheme which again was introduced in this Parliament over and above the opposition of the Liberal and National Country parties and passed through the Parliament only as a result of a joint sitting of the Parliament. Those people who under previous arrangements of the old pensioner medical scheme were disadvantaged because they were not able to afford health insurance, are again disadvantaged under the present scheme in which medical cover of a far greater range and standard can be bought in the form of private health insurance. This cover is not provided through basic Medibank insurance provided by the Government. 
The major area in which the Government has sought to divide the Australian community i in the area of industrial relations, of wage fixation and conditions. I shall give some examples. First, wage indexation, which was an initiative of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  was brought into this Parliament against the bitter opposition- I repeat, the bitter opposition- of the present Government Ministers. Although they did everything possible to defeat its introduction they have now made it an act of faith. Indexation has been altered in a number of ways by initiatives of this Government which have seriously disadvantaged sections of the wage earning community who have to approach the court to seek payments that ought to be automatic following a change in their financial status in line with movements in the cost of living. I instance one obvious divisive process- the elimination from indexation of overaward payments which have existed throughout industry over a long period. It should be stated clearly that determinations of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have always set minimum standards. Therefore anything over the minimum is something which an employee has a right to seek. The indexation guidelines exclude overaward payments. Therefore those payments over and above the minimum standards fixed which were enjoyed as a result of negotiations between employees and employers are no longer adjusted but are frozen at a fixed level. Employees in the Victorian Government service received an overaward payment of approximately $26 a week which has been frozen since early 1976. Therefore their relative wage standards are dropping. 
The Conciliation and Arbitration Commission is said to be the umpire, and its decisions are holy writ with the Prime Minister when the Commission is acting in the interests of employers or in the interests of what the Government sees as its policies. Employees are expected to accept without question decisions of the Commission m matters which are the subject of dispute with their employers. They are told that the Commission's decisions must be obeyed at all costs. I think most of us will remember the attitude of the Prime Minister to decisions that have not been in line with the Government's recommendations to the Commission on indexation, for instance. The abuse heaped on the Commission by Ministers of this Government is tantamount to contempt of court. They have done everything possible to intimidate the officers of the Commission in their decision-making process, and on at least one occasion have deliberately misled the officers of the Commission in the presentation outside the court of conditions under which judgments should be made. Every member of this House will be fully aware of the Prime Minister's statements in the indexation case of March this year. He said that the Government would considerI repeat the words 'would consider'- tax concessions if the court determined that it would not pass on the indexation rises due to employees under the system. 
More importantly- in fact, of total importanceis that the freedom of action for employees, whether privately or as a group, has been removed from the conciliation and arbitration system by the Government's freezing negotiations on wages or conditions outside the fixed guidelines on indexation. There is now no room for negotiation between an employee and an employer, although this condition does not apply to those employees or employers whose classification could be said to be executive. In reply to a question I asked the Prime Minister some time ago, the Prime Minister made this position quite clear. The guidelines apply only to those employees who would normally expect to negotiate their wage levels through the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
Divisiveness is the aim and the policy of the Prime Minister. It is being used ruthlessly to divide Australia and turn sections of the community against one another in the interests of the political advancement of the Prime Minister and his Party. This is historically the method by which he has operated, and the bodies of those people who have suffered are scattered widely around the political arenas of Australia. Confronting Australia are serious problems which cannot be solved by this type of divisiveness or by the daily abuse by Government Ministers, for political purposes alone, of significant sections of the Australian community We need and require a government which is prepared to seek and which is capable of utilising the national unity which is available in Australia if the proper approach is made. No sections of the Australian community are entitled to expect the continuing and almost unmitigated abuse of the Government of the day. Every person is entitled to expect equal rights and that the Government of the day will treat him as an Australian, not as someone belonging to a sub-standard section of the community, as is presently the case under this Government. We ought to look closely at the oft repeated abuse of English migrants by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who talks about the 'Pommie shop stewards '. 
-I agree that it is utter nonsense. These people are being abused merely because the intonation of their voices makes them readily recognisable from other sections of the community. If their skins were black and they lived in another country we would be up in arms about what was being said, but in Australia it is part of government policy. We see the deliberate and continuing attempts of Government Ministers to turn one segment of* the community against another. Not without note are the efforts to create and multiply the divisions in the trade union movement about which we hear from Government Ministers every day of the week, and in the rural community. Both these areas are suffering similarly under this Government. One gets sympathetic words but very little else; the other does not even get sympathetic words. Recently in the  Australian Financial Review  the Prime Minister was described as a person who receives his kicks from crises and moves from one crisis to another. At the moment we have a crisis which is being magnified deliberately by the Government. 
-I will tell the people of Victoria exactly this: They have a government which for nine weeks has sat on the fence and not even bothered to go to the trouble of discussing with the employees of the State Electricity Commission, which is the utility of the Victorian Government, and with the people who can do something about the matter the problems which exist in the Latrobe Valley. The dispute is over more than wages. There has been total uncertainty for 20 years. It is now developing in Canberra and I would have thought that the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  would be worried about it. Obviously he is not. 
You resign and contest your seat tomorrow, and you will be an ex-member, that is how happy they are. The facts are that people were brought to this country to work in the Latrobe Valley and were offered the Promised Land. It was to be Ruhr of Victoria. That was the advertising slogan. The Government of Victoria has not carried through its undertakings. In fact, the proposals for that area have not been proceeded with. In the last 12 months the Prime Minister has added to the uncertainty by making speeches in which he has clearly indicated that in his belief no future projects should go into the Latrobe Valley; that the area should become an industrial desert. They are the Prime Minister's own words. He feels that by some magic means this will solve problems which have been created by the uncertainty which grows in a community in which hope is taken away from the people by an insensitive and unresponsive government. If the Federal Government or the Victorian Government wants to intervene in the Latrobe Valley industrial dispute the first thing it should do is call the parties into conference and let them discuss their problems in a civilised manner. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill which extends the present provisions of the Act for 12 months. This is the end of the period covered by the Industries Assistance Commission report in 1975. That report recommended a gradual reduction in the subsidy and if that recommendation had been accepted it would have been abolished at the end of this year. The Government's decision to extend the existing subsidy for 12 months will give a degree of assistance to some sectors of primary industry, and the manufacturing industry concerned, at a time when there is some uncertainty and certainly some doubts about market prospects and the future incomes of people engaged in the major industries which benefit by the provisions of this Act, namely the tobacco, fruit, sugar, cotton and citrus industries. 
A decision to accept the IAC recommendation at this late stage would not be in the best interests of either the Parliament or those involved in the industries concerned. The Bill extends for 12 months the payment of this subsidy and that is the period over which the IAC recommended elimination of the bounty should take place. I think it is important that the Government now has the matter re-examined or else makes a long term decision on what it is going to do in respect of this industry and those in the manufacturing areas who benefit indirectly or directly from the subsidy. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. I think its passage through the House is more important than uttering a lot of words. 
-I will be very brief. The honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  made a number of remarks relating to the lack of time I spent on this Bill. The Bill is self-explanatory. I believe that those people in primary industry who benefit under the Bill are well aware of the benefits and do not need any verbose politicians to tell them. I suggest that the honourable member study the methods by which finances are allocated in this Parliament. He indicated that there was no appropriation in the 1975 Budget for this subsidy. The Bill appropriates its own funds and it is not necessary for them to be included in the budgetary provisions. This applies to the majority of funds spent by Federal governments. They are appropriated under Bills which appropriate their own funds. The Australian Labor Party carried on this subsidy as has the present Government, in the same manner and under the same form of legislation as this. The honourable member does the House a disservice when he seeks to base an argument on the spurious ground that expenditure on the subsidy was not included in the Estimates, when in fact the Bill, as you have just indicated,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  by reading the message from the Governor-General, appropriates its own funds. 
-The very short time which is available for members to discuss the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry gives an opportunity for a cursory glance only at what is the most widespread area of estimates that come before this Parliament. I intend to concentrate my remarks today on general approaches and the means by which problems may be solved in a number of primary industries which are growing and which will continue to grow. I think the most important single thing that one can say in this Parliament or anywhere else is that short term measures only stave off the day when long term appreciations of problems have to be undertaken. It is unfortunate that within the primary industry area there is a very strong penchant for people to take short term measures to patch up problems. I realise that it is a diverse area but the problems which have been solved to any degree in the major industries have been solved by fairly strong legislation based on real needs and the real ability of an industry to produce and market its products, to receive for that product a price which is reasonable for the producer, a price which allows that producer to operate a commercial operation, not what may be described as a hobby or as a way of life, or by some other term by which primary industry sometimes is described. It is an industry and it has problems. 
The terms of trade have run against primary industry almost through the total period of this century. There has not been more demand in this area from primary producer organisations at an earlier time because the pressures on them were not as great as they have become over, say, the last 20 to 30 years. Certainly at this time the terms of trade have reached a situation where the actual survival of many primary industries as commercial operations must be seen to be in doubt. This is exaggerated by the activities of the governments in other areas and, to some extent, has been contributed to by Australian governments. The European Economic Community, for instance, has taken actions in recent years which have changed dramatically the terms of trade of Australian primary producers and taken away the capacity to dispose of surpluses in markets where they could be sold at reasonable prices to the advantage of the people who live in that area. The subsidisation of primary products in the EEC area and the protection at the level at which it is being granted is acting to the very serious disadvantage of Australian farmers and also the general community in agricultural areas. The Japanese market for beef and the American market for beef and other primary products is restricted. There is still the age old tariff against our wool. One could spend weeks trying to find a justifiable reason for the existence of that tariff. Certainly the United States needs the wool and it would not in any way affect the wool growers of the United States to remove that particular tariff. But it exists, as do restrictions on access to the market and other restrictions. 
For too long Australian primary producers have been loath to enter into the types of considerations which are absolutely necessary if they are to obtain the income levels which their efficiency and ability to produce requires. In the early 1940s wheat growers were one of the few areas of primary production to move into a stabilisation scheme. Some level of stability came to that industry in which producers had been the victims of some of the most devastating years in the history of any industry. In the late 1930s and early 1940s the prices of wheat in Australia dropped to levels which had not been reached for 300 years. The reaction to that was that farmers realised the necessity for modern marketing methods and modern approaches to the sale of their product in order to enable them to obtain in the market place the price they were entitled to expect. Unfortunately, it took a lot longer for wool growers to reach a position of similar understanding of the need for them to change marketing methods, and then only reluctantly. It was, in fact, the Labor Government which put the floor in the wool market in 1974, a move which most likely would have been taken by other governments at an earlier time had the industry been prepared to accept what I think was an inevitable move for that industry. I remember over a long period the honourable Reg Pollard, both in this House and outside this House, pushing the need for market reforms in the wool area without any success during his parliamentary or political life because of the objections of the major organisations in the wool growing area. 
The beef industry is now going through a crisis which will require for a long term solution- short term patching up methods may be possible- a totally new approach to marketing of beef whereby the producer sells his beef at a price, not in an auction where he takes what is offered. There are all sorts of difficulties which have to be resolved before that can come about, but the main difficulty is that the beef grower himself must want it to happen. Until he accepts it, it will not be possible, within a parliamentary situation, especially in Australia where it is necessary to have the support of seven separate governments in order to undertake this type of marketing change, until the pressure from the beef grower is sufficient for that sort of market change. There is still hesitancy about changing marketing methods. If primary producers are to be commercial operations receiving a price for thenproduct in the same way as manufacturers and other sections of the community, there must be changes. No one expects the Ford Motor Company or General Motors Holden 's to auction off their cars at a price which someone might bid and which they will accept, but the primary producer, in the main, sells his product on that sort of basis and has opposed marketing changes. He has opposed the marketing changes because of what I believe to be an archaic approach to the free enterprise system which, I think, long since left the market place. Because of that approach many of these products are sold on the basis of what the buyer thinks he can get in order to make a profit rather than what the primary producer is entitled to expect. It will make some serious changes to our approach and possibly it will even change our food prices. But if farmers are to operate on a commercial basis- surely that should be what it is all about- then they are entitled to sell their product as a commodity for a price and not have to beg someone to take it off their hands at a loss. That is the current situation. 
We can make speeches of any nature we wish in this Parliament about what we will do tomorrow or the next day. But the real need in primary industry in Australia is for the farmer to operate on a commercial basis, for the organisations involved in primary industry to become far more professional than they are now. I suggest that it should have the sorts of organisations which exist in the trade union movement, whereby pressure can be applied to obtain the conditions to which trade unionists believe they are entitled, whether or not the community agrees. That is necessary within primary industry organisations. 
I am not likening it to anything. I am saying that they can seek and obtain what they are entitled to by putting forward logical arguments and by applying pressure where it is necessary- that may be to the National Country Party on some occasions; it may be to the Labor Party on others; it should always be to the Liberal Party. The fact is that that can be done or else they can sit back and go broke gradually while somebody else makes a fortune. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Opposition opposes this motion. An announcement was made to the Press yesterday of the Government's intention to introduce this legislation today or tomorrow. But notice was not given in the House in the normal manner. I think it is appropriate that the Government should give the proper notice. The Bill can be introduced tomorrow when it could be dealt with in plenty of time for any application the Government may wish to make. It is proposed that the amending legislation will give additional powers to a bureau which has not even been set up yet. I suggest that the failure of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to give this House notice of this legislation yesterday when he was able to give the Press and everyone in the country notice is sufficient reason for the Government to be refused leave to introduce this legislation now. The introduction of the legislation is not a matter of urgency. The Government is seeking to introduce the legislation in an attempt to exacerbate a position in which real and sincere efforts are being made to seek resolution of the dispute in Victoria, despite the efforts of this Government and despite the incompetence and the complete withdrawal of responsibility by the Victorian Government which has not even gone to the trouble of having its Minister - 

 -Mr Speaker, are you able to advise when you will make an announcement of the date of the by-election for the division of Bonython? 
-The Opposition opposes this motion. The Opposition believes that the time set aside to debate a major change in industrial relations legislation in Australia is quite insufficient. The Bill is an amended form of the Bill which was introduced on a previous occasion. Only one hour's notice was given to the Opposition before the Bill was introduced at 8 o'clock last night. There has been no opportunity for the Opposition to consult experts in industrial law, to give serious consideration - 

 -Mr Speaker, who is making the speech- myself or the honourable member for Brisbane? I cannot even concentrate. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) On what occasions has he communicated with the Government of Japan regarding the Australian-Japanese sugar contract. 
Will he table in the Parliament transcripts and copies of any communications. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
What research projects has he approved from the Meat Research Fund; 
Is he satisfied with the priority given to research projects. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 25 August 1977. 
1) Do the provisions of the Trade Practices Act exempt small and uneconomic orders. 
If so, do these provisions act to the disadvantage of small businesses and residents in small communities where large orders cannot economically be placed for a wide range of commodities. 
If the position is as stated, will he examine this matter and see what action can be taken to protect these interests. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1 ) What capacity exists for the extraction of (a) coal, (b) iron ore, (c) nickel and (d) bauxite at the present time. 
What additional capacity is currently (a) under development and (b) under active consideration. 
Are there sufficient markets available to absorb this additional capacity. 
Are mining companies competing in price for export markets thus reducing prices received for mineral exports from Australia. 
Does the Government require that minimum prices must be received before export licences are granted. 
Did Robe River recently make sales of iron ore to Japan at prices below existing contracts of other companies. 
If so, have other Australian companies been informed that they must accept lower prices as a result of the Robe River contract. 
-Yes. I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Hotham being heard. 

 The honourable member for Corio having submitted his motion in writing- 


 Mi SCHOLES-I do not intend to speak to the motion except to say that I have moved it because I believe the announcement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is significant. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  who represents a significant political force in the country, if not in this Parliament at this moment, ought to be heard by the Parliament. 
-I move: 
That progress be reported. 
I do so in order that this matter can be resolved. If this situation continues, the Parliament will be a farce. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Progress reported. 
I indicate that the Opposition will be opposing this motion because we think that the redistribution in Western Australia is unfair and that it does not represent a proper allocation of divisions. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I rise to seek your guidance. When we were dealing with the New South Wales redistribution, we voted on the change of the name of one of the electoral divisions. Honourable members on this side of the House thought that you had declared the vote in favour of the ayes; I understand you declared it in favour of the noes. Because of that misunderstanding we did not ask for a division. I am asking whether we can have that question recommitted so that a vote can be taken. 
-The first question, with respect to changing the name of the division from 'Grayndler to 'Lang'. 
-I seek leave to move a motion which would allow the question of the New South Wales redistribution to be recommitted. We will not seek to divide the House on the subsequent question. 
-I will move it in that way. 
-That is all right. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
-The motion I would propose would be in these terms: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent a vote being taken on renaming, in the maps agreed to, the division of Grayndler as the division of Lang. 
-I move: 
That the following words be added to the motion agreed to for the redistribution of the State of New South Wales into Electoral Divisions, viz.: "and the name 'Lang' be substituted for 'Grayndler' ". 
Question put- 
That the motion  (Mr Scholes's)  be agreed to. 
I raise a matter with which the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who represents the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  might be able to deal. Recently a sheltered workshop was completed in my electorate, at the cost of $500,000. An application was made to the Government for assistance in the form of a grant to purchase equipment for that workshop. The letter which was received by the committee representing that workshop indicated that the Government was sorry but it would not consider providing an equipment grant for this completed sheltered workshop, which is urgently needed and which the Commonwealth agrees is needed, until after 30 June 1979. The Government will not allow the workshop even to be registered until that time. The workshop cannot spend the money which it has available now to buy equipment; otherwise it will become ineligible for subsidy at that time. I think it is a matter of considerable seriousness. 
The workshop was completed. It was completed with assistance from grants through the State Government. The Commonwealth claims ignorance of the proposal. I am certain that the Commonwealth participated in that construction program. If the workshop is left to gather cobwebs between now and June 1979, 1 think it would be to the eternal disgrace of this Government or any other government. I ask the Minister whether he would take up this matter with his colleague because it is a matter of seriousness which promises to disadvantage people who could be employed in that sheltered workshop but who would have to sit around doing nothing for two years until the Department decides that it might register the workshop. 
-Did the Minister for Primary Industry announce on 28 October that a virus similar to blue tongue had been found in Australian insects? Was it necessary to send samples overseas to obtain final identification of the actual virus? What action has the Australian Agricultural Council decided to take as a result of the Minister's request on Friday? Finally, have any countries outside Australia taken any action in respect of this discovery? 
-On behalf of the Opposition it is necessary for me to lodge some protest, not so much at the suspension of the 11 o'clock rule- that happens fairly frequently at this stage of parliament- but at the amount of legislation which has been brought into the Parliament in the last day or so and the amount which is to be brought in today. Some of it is legislation which the Government would claim is of extreme substance. It has been introduced without any opportunity being given to the Opposition to look at it, to examine it and to consider its ramifications. 
May I mention one or two Bills which are to be pushed through the Parliament. Already listed for debate tomorrow are some Bills which have not been introduced yet. This imposes a task which is completely beyond the Parliament. I know it is a regular practice towards the end of a sessional period. Some of the legislation which is suddenly appearing has been talked about by Ministers around the country for the best part of 12 months. As always towards the end of a sessional period- I am not sure whose responsibility it is- legislation suddenly flows into the Parliament.  Major Bills  are pushed through the Parliament without honourable members having a chance to consider them, especially the clauses of Bills in the Committee stage. One Bill to be introduced later today is the Australian Rural Bank Bill, which will have major repercussions on the financial institutions of the country as well as on a large section of the community. It can be described only as a beat up Bill. The Parliament will not have an opportunity to examine it properly or to disclose its deficiencies. 
The people involved in other legislation ought to be consulted. They ought to be able to examine it and discuss it with members of the Government parties and members of the Opposition. This will not happen. The Government is looking to pass some 50 pieces of legislation in a week. Most of it has been on the Notice Paper less than one or two days. Legislation is not the property of the Cabinet or the legislative committee only; it is also the property of the community at large. If Bills have a wide effect and do not necessarily apply specific monetary policies of the Government but change avenues within our way of life, then the community is entitled to see the legislation and determine whether it carries out what has been promised. They are entitled to make recommendations on it to their members of Par.liament if they feel that such representations ought to be made. People would not be able to get copies of many of the Bills going through Parliament at the moment in time to look at them before they become law. That is how quickly they are being pushed through the Parliament. Seven Bills are to be introduced today. All of them are listed for discussion in the Parliament tomorrow. Some of them will sUp back to Monday. I am sure that the Government has no intention of passing some of the legislation this session. Some of it will be passed for propaganda purposes and most likely never proclaimed. The point that I make is that substantive legislation should not be dealt with by a Parliament on this basis. This situation occurs regularly. It is a problem from which the Parliament suffers. 
The decision to dissolve the Parliament on 10 November was taken by the Government. 
Therefore the Government has to accept the responsibility for its own inability to prepare the ground so that the legislation can be dealt with properly and effectively. The community at large will suffer from the mistakes that are made through this type of practice and the Parliament will become completely redundant in the process of passing legislation. It will exist merely to allow a Minister to make a second reading speech and some token response to be made by the Opposition or a supporter of the Government, but the proper role of Parliament will be totally excluded. That role is to represent the people who sent members here to represent them. If this type of practice continues ad infinitum, as it appears it will unless there are substantial changes, we may as well allow the Cabinet to pass the legislation and try to find a suitable moment to present it to the Governor-General when he is capable of signing it. 
-I will not delay the House for very long. The Opposition Will oppose this proposition. We believe that members who have placed items of General Business on the Notice Paper have a right to have them debated in the Parliament. In the previous Parliament, despite aU that could have been said about the conduct of the House, even during Budget discussions, private members' business on the day on which it was listed was given precedence and aU matters were taken to a vote. Honourable members have had items of General Business on the Notice Paper for over 12 months, waiting for them to be debated. I think it is unfortunate that the matter which is listed for tomorrow in the name of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  namely, that we discuss the requirements for election purposes and the financing or political parties, cannot be debated. The second item on the Notice Paper, in the name of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  is a matter relating to the Australian Assistance Plan, which was one of those things on which a clear undertaking was given by the then caretaker government, through the then Minister the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who subsequently left the Liberal Party because of the repudiation of that promise and other matters with which he was personally concerned. 
These matters have been listed since the first day of the sitting of this Parliament, which was at least 18 months ago. This does not apply only tomorrow; it has applied to the whole of the Budget session of this Parliament during which honourable members have been denied the opportunity of discussing General Business matters. This effectively takes out of the Parliament any discussion at all of private members' business. Other General Business notices are listed. There are, in fact, some 40 of them on the Notice Paper. Only one or two of then have even got past the stage of giving of notice. I think it is fair to say that in most cases honourable members did not expect their notices to get past that stage. I think it highlights the inability of honourable members to bring matters before this Parliament at all. The present Government's return to the pre- 1972 situation where General Business was brought on only when it suited the convenience of the Government rather than as a right to members is, I think, a retrograde step. The Opposition opposes this proposition. 
-One cannot let pass statements made by the honourable member for Capricornia  (Mr Carige)  relating to delays in matters referred to Public Works Committees. I seem to recall that a project which I would have thought important to all animal experts- the animal health research laboratories -was approved by the Public Works Committee and this Parliament in 1975. The works have reached the stage where the designs are now complete. 
-I think that is true and as it is a matter of vital importance to the National Country Party, I would accept the qualification that the preoccupation of the National Country Party with the mining industry as opposed to rural industries is most likely the reason why the project has not been funded this year. It is important that Australia makes sure that it is selfsufficient in protective mechanisms, both in research and preventive areas and in proof of eradication areas. I suggest there is every reason why the Government should be censured for its failure to proceed with what is the major project in this area, a project which could be called into use in a very short period. 
I think it is important that we look at the answer given to a question directed yesterday to the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  as to what I hope is only a minor incident. The fact is that in order to examine and identify a virus it is necessary to send such specimens as are collected overseas for examination. We do not have the necessary facilities in Australia. Irrespective of what anyone might say, if there is an outbreak of an exotic disease in Australia the cost to the rural community and the country itself will be $50m a month while we prove eradication. To prove eradication we have to send the specimens and in some instances the animals out of Australia for testing. I think that every honourable member understands the importance of the project. What I am complaining about is that this project was deemed to be not urgent in 1970 when it was before a government of a similar colour to this Government and was not proceeded with. There was talk about representation in this place. The National Country Party and the farmers' organisations ought to be pressing for this project. It does not matter where the laboratory is built. It is vital to the industries concerned. 
-by leave-The Opposition acknowledges the correction. I think it shows the dangers of using seasonally adjusted figures, which the Government itself had decided were of no value. Quite obviously, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  misled the House when he used figures which were no longer published or no longer used by the Government but which apparently were satisfactory to use to show a lower rate of increase in unemployment than actually existed. 
-I will not delay the House for long. But I think it is important that I should rise to speak in view of the circumstances which preceded this debate and also in view of what occurred last night on exactly the same matter, where the House passed over the Committee stage of a Bill when an honourable member rose. That should not go unnoticed. I only want to draw the attention of the House to the fact that the Chair does not have the right to gag members or to interfere with the rights of members, whether directly or indirectly. If gags or guillotines are to be applied, that is the responsibility of the Leader of the House or an honourable member operating from the floor of the House. 
This is a serious matter. I draw attention to the fact that it is the responsibility of the person in the chair, before he moves onto the next stage, to make sure that no member is seeking to take a Bill into Committee. It is necessary for leave to be granted to pass over the Committee stage of a Bill. Otherwise, it is an automatic procedure. I do not comment on what occurred tonight. But I raise this matter because it has a serious consequence in that it takes away the rights that members have in relation to proceedings under a Bill. In this case it most likely delayed the passage of the Bill instead of facilitating it. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 September 1 977: 
Did he inform a meeting of farmers on 29 August 1977 that the Federal Government had decided to fund any meat stabilisation scheme agreed to by the States. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 September 1977. 
Did he state in a speech at Cobden, Victoria, on 29 August 1977 that the Labor Government was responsible for the decline in beef marketing. 
I wish to address myself to clause 84. When that clause is dealt with I shall seek to have it deleted from the Bill. Clause 84 gives the Minister or any Minister extraordinary powers- powers far removed from those which should be properly held by a Minister of the Crown or by any person who is in a position to exercise political control over a broadcasting service, especially one whose aim is said to be a special one and concerned with ethnic matters. Clause 84, in conjunction with clause 85, would, if interpreted literally, give the Minister power almost to establish the basic program, format and content of a radio station and also to remove a licence from a station which acted contrary to the Minister's direction. That is a power which I believe ought not to exist, irrespective of which political party is in office. One of the characteristics of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board was that it always had an independent right, even though it sometimes lacked the determination necessary to carry through that role. It is not a role which should be left to a Minister. Clause 84 quite clearly states: 
After the provisions of section 83 have been complied with in relation to a licence, and before the grant of the licence, the Minister shall determine the specifications applicable to the licence (which shall be consistent with, or substantially consistent with, the outline published under paragraph (a) of sub-section ( 1) of section 82) . . . 
The clause gives the Minister powers which are too wide and which can be interpreted and which could be used in a manner which the Minister would possibly not wish or intend. Our advice is that this clause could be interpreted in such a way as to give the Minister power to fix conditions under which a station operates. That would have the effect of controlling the operation of that station, down to the type of programming available and so on. 
The Minister will move amendments to a subsequent clause. Therefore I am not able to move my amendment at this stage. After we have dealt with the Minister's amendments the Opposition will move for the deletion of clause 84. We believe that it ought to be redrafted so that it expresses in very clear terms which cannot be misinterpreted or misused the intent of the clause, which I hope is not what I have suggested but what I think it should be. The Minister may feel it incumbent to act in that manner, even though it may be necessary to restore the clause when the legislation is brought back at a subsequent stage. As it now stands the Bill suggests at least by interpretation- I do not profess to be a lawyer- that the Minister is given powers which would enable him to have practical direction over programming and program content for a radio station. Those are powers which the Opposition believes a government should not have, even though sometimes politicians might be tempted to have them. 
-Under Part IIIA, which comprises the clauses which are under consideration, the Minister has the right to issue directions to a station by regulation. Regulations are not necessarily made when Parliament is sitting but can be made after a Parliament has risen, possibly for a considerable period before an election. Under the terms of this Bill it would be possible for the Minister to introduce regulations which forced the Special Broadcasting Service to act in accordance with the directions of himself or his political party. That is possible under the provisions of this Part of the Bill. Make no mistake about it. I am not suggesting that the present Minister would do such a thing, but I suggest that honourable members opposite read the speeches of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  during the latter part of 197S in which he sought to misrepresent the activities of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in a manner which I suggest was quite improper. Had he been the Minister responsible for broadcasting and television with these powers over the service which he was criticising, he could have prescribed regulations to take away totally the independence of that service. 
-No, he was not Minister at the time about which I am talking. He was the Minister in the caretaker Government responsible for broadcasting, but he had limited powers because of the Governor-General's general direction. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in one of his few acts of good sense, did not appoint him as Minister subsequently. The point I make is that the honourable member for Gippsland made serious imputations against the integrity of the ABC. The imputations were baseless, but such allegations if repeated often enough can have an effect on the staff of an organisation who have promotions and other things to worry about. Subsequently staff was attacked and intimidated by this Government. Under this Bill the Special Broadcasting Service, which is aimed at specific sections of the community, can be directed by regulations which are prescribed by a Minister. It says so in the BUI. There is no need for the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  to shake his head. That provision is contained in the legislation. Any Minister can prescribe - 
-Any Minister who is in charge of this legislation can prescribe those regulations. A political party in desperate trouble and possibly with a man Uke the honourable member for Gippsland as Minister in charge of the legislation, could take such action. The way in which he attacked the integrity of the ABC would suggest that no one could trust him with responsibility for any area of public information. The BUI ought to be cast in a manner which will permit the independence of the Special Broadcasting Service and which will not under any circumstances allow a Minister to take action which would even give any hint of being a direction on program material and content. 
-That is not what it does: it does exactly the reverse. It is important to the integrity of the service and to the Minister's own standing that that power should not exist. Even if it is only a possible power, the Bill ought to be altered in order to prevent it from existing. It does exist in this clause and if Government supporters pass it, they will rue the day. If they do not, the Australian people will. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
Is he satisfied that quarantine procedures in New South Wales are properly administered. If not, what action has he taken to ensure (hat procedures are improved. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it correct that over the past two weeks the Australian Wool Corporation sold 20,000 bales of wool ex Flushing on the basis of f.o.b. prices in Australia? Does this mean that the purchasers have bought the wool without having to pay freight to Europe? If so, does this mean that the Corporation has effectively undermined its own reserve prices and in this case has caused the drop in the wool market over the last week? Does it mean a possible loss to wool growers of up to $600,000? 
-The Opposition will not oppose this motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. We realise that it is a parliamentary tactic which is being followed for the purpose of giving the Government some semblance of respectability in its claims in the electorate. We believe that Parliament is entitled to a debate on the economic management of the Government, and we will seek to have that debate. We believe that the Government ought to be exposed for the sort of fraud that it has perpetrated on this Parliament. In the deep hours the other night the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  came into the House and admitted to the Parliament that at Question Time he had used the seasonal figures of two years ago and compared them with the current figures. Thus he gave false information to the Parliament. 
It is important that the Parliament debates the real issues. It is sitting at a time when an election has been called. In recent days the Government has sought on every possible occasion to prevent debate on matters of substance relating to the election. The Opposition will not oppose the motion, even though we realise that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  feel the need for this type of smokescreen in order to cover up matters of real substance which ought to be debated in the electorate. The Government will be using its numbers to carry the motion. I am fairly certain that the Leader of the House was hoping that we would oppose his motion. We will not. 
I can assure the Leader of the House and other honourable members who sit behind him that those people who pay the Medibank levy, for instance, know that they pay it. It is not a mirage, as the Prime Minister seems to suggest, in the cost of living. The levy comes out of the pockets of the people. It may be a mirage to honourable gentlemen opposite. It is certainly important that the Parliament should expose the deception and the damage that has been done to this country by the self righteous, opinionated approach to policy of the Government. It has portrayed itself to everyone as God and has said that everyone who opposes it or suggests that it is wrong is guilty of a mortal sin and should be excommunicated from the community. We do not propose to oppose the motion. 
I move: 
That the honourable member for Oxley be granted an extension of time. 
I have moved this motion because of the deliberate interruptions by members of the Government parties. 
Question put. 
I wish to raise a matter which is of specific importance and which affects a relatively small number of people. It really relates to the need for a provision in the Social Services Act for discretion in regard to the sections of the Act which relate to the payment of pensions outside Australia. I think all honourable members would agree that the specific case which I will put before the Committee indicates the need for the provision which I am suggesting. Some time ago I had cause to take up with the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  the case of a widow whose husband, prior to his death, had been an invalid pensioner, this entitling her to payment of the equivalent of the pension on the basis that she was the wife of a pensioner, but not as of right. When the husband of the woman concerned died her entitlement ceased, although she was not aware of this fact. The family decided that the husband should be interred in Italy and his wife accompanied the body to Italy without filling in an application for widow s pension prior to leaving Australia. The husband- had been dead for about four days when she left 
Australia. She was under the impression, as was her family, that she was in fact in receipt of a pension. They did not understand the niceties of the payment of a wife's allowance to the wife of a pensioner. 
When her family inquired why she was not receiving the pension they were informed that she was not eligible because she had left Australia before establishing eligibility by making the necessary application for a widow's pension. This is a matter of definition. I think it is just an oversight in the Act, although it may have been a deliberate oversight at the time. This is an area where, quite clearly, the Minister should have discretion to take action in order to allow the woman's application to be received as if it had been made prior to her departure from Australia. This is a matter where hardship was caused. In order to obtain eligibility for a continuation of the payment she was already receiving- it is largely only a technicality of applying for a widow's pension and receiving the same- she has to return to Australia or else be without that pension. I raise the matter because, although the Act will not be altered at this time, it ought to be altered at a subsequent time to give discretion to the Minister in cases where a quite clear hardship is created because of circumstances which do not arise very often but which should be able to be corrected when they do arise. 
I want to speak for two minutes about a matter which is of very serious concern and which I believe must be raised as often as possible in this Parliament. Last year the Tertiary Education Commission indicated in its report the disadvantage which was suffered by newer institutions because of the freeze imposed on capital expenditures. The Deakin University, which is the institution I intend to mention, has a building program for establishing the basic facilities that a university needs to operate. That university has a requirement of about $17m. A grant of about $2m has been made to it. 
So the House will understand the sorts of difficulties which exist in the circumstances, I point out that in the humanities-social studies areas of degree courses, any student wishing to study sociology, which is part of the education faculty of the university, would have to travel some 9 to 10 miles to attend lectures because of the education faculty is situated in the old premises of the Geelong Teachers College, which is located in North Geelong, whereas the university is located in the Old Gordon Institute in the Waurn Ponds area. The art and design faculty is located in a factory building in South Geelong. So the situation is that we have a university which does not have the basic accommodation which is desirable and which is required for an institution. Being a new institution it is disadvantaged by the cut-backs by a far greater magnitude than would an established organisation at which new buildings would be additional facilities. The facilities required by this institution are the basic building structures m which the institution can operate. 
I raise this matter on this occasion, as I did when a similar bill was before the House last year. I notice that little or nothing has been done in the interim. The continued freeze of capital funds has been to the disadvantage and to the detriment of the students, and it makes the position of the staff almost impossible because of the split campus situation under which the lectures on different subjects are given at locations which are far apart. That seriously disadvantages the students, especially as there is almost no public transport available between the various sections of the university. 
-The Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill (No. 2) extends for a period of two years the guaranteed payment provisions under the Apple and Pear Stabilisation Act. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  in his second reading speech, indicated that he believes that this will give stability to the industry, also that it will give some guarantees to the industry which will enable it to become viable. It will in fact provide what could be termed a base price for exports of apples and pears at risk. During debate on an earlier Bill this year the Opposition moved an amendment to alter the underwriting price from $2 to $3 per box of apples, and from 80c to $ 1 .20 per box of pears, on the same limited export quantities. Our intention is to move the same amendment on this occasion because, as was contended then, the Opposition believes that in the period since the present price was fixed the costs and the efforts of the industry have been such that it is not unreasonable to suggest that the prices which I have mentioned should now be written into the Act. This is the second time that a price has been fixed in legislation. The prices will cover a two-year period. 
I point out that the Minister, in his speech earlier this year, indicated that the Government was looking at additional means of assistance to the industry. The Minister, in his second reading speech on this Bill, indicated that the Government was conferring with the States on a supplementary assistance program for 1978 which could involve an additional Sim to assist apple exports to Europe, including the United Kingdom. The amount involved if the amendment were carried very closely approximates the amount mentioned in the Minister's speech. We feel that the industry would be better served by an increase in the support or guaranteed price. It is, I think, true to say that the industry, through its own efforts and through encouragement, has reduced its number of trees to levels which are I think manageable. 
I was a little concerned some time ago when I heard the  chairman  of the marketing board of Tasmania suggest that it was now time to start replanting trees because the market prospects were so good. I hope that would not be undertaken as it would constitute what I would think was a short sighted policy, as was the policy in the early 1960s when people in Victoria and elsewhere were encouraged to plant pear trees at a time when it was fairly obvious to most people that Britain would ultimately be going into the European Economic Community. The result was that many growers who took the advice given to them by the present Leader of the National Country Party and other members opposite suffered very heavy losses, and the Government was involved in extremely heavy expenditure in pulling out trees which had been planted as a result of that earlier advice. Those trees did not have any economic effect on the industry. 
This industry is vital to a number of areas. I remember a few years ago accompanying the former member for Bendigo to the Harcourt area to discuss with the growers and the co-operatives in that area the problems of the apple and pear industry, especially the problems which had come about because of the changes in marketing and storage methods which had rendered unsuitable as far as markets were concerned a number of varieties which had been very profitable and very suitable to that area. I think that to some extent it was to the disadvantage of the consumer. Some apples have ceased to be available on the market because the ripening period of other apples can be extended, and these fresh apples, whether they arrive early or late on the market, are always preferred. I do not intend to delay the House much longer. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the House is of the opinion that the Bill should be withdrawn and redrafted with a view to bringing forward a Bill which (a) increases the rate of stabilisation payments to $3 per box of apples and $ 1 .20 per box of pears and /or (b) provides supplementary assistance measures to facilitate adjustments in the fruit growing industry and to provide assistance directly to individual fruit growers until such times as a coherent planned policy, by which the Australian fruit growing industry can prosper, is determined '. 
I make one other point. Because of the short period of time left for this Parliament, the Opposition would give a clear undertaking to the Government that if the amendment were accepted we would facilitate the passage of the subsequent legislation through the Parliament without any delay or adjournment. 
-I presume that the Bill before the House is the Brigalow Lands Agreement Amendment Bill. It is one of two pieces of legislation before the House arising from the statement by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on additional assistance to the beef industry made in this House on 22 September. The Bill itself authorises the deferment of payments under the brigalow agreement for a period of 12 months from July 1977 to July 1978 without penalty to the persons who are required to make the payments and also without penalty to the Queensland Government. The Bill, in fact, legalises the agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government to assist that section of the beef industry in the brigalow area which is in extreme difficulties because of the poor market conditions and the lack of cash flow available to persons involved in beef production in that area. The whole crux of this Bill and the related measure, which the House will debate at a later stage, is to provide some cash flow assistance.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  with your indulgence I will refer to the other measure briefly because the two Bills are so interrelated it is almost impossible not to debate them, as I would have hoped we would have been able to resume debate on the ministerial statement. 
These two pieces of legislation scratch the surface and little more in solving the long terms problems of the beef industry. Recently we had an indication from the Japanese Government that an additional 10,000 tonnes of beef will be received by Japan this year. That is a breakthrough but honourable members will have noted in the Press in recent days that the Japanese Government has indicated also that it is reducing the domestic price for beef- which, I think, is not before time. It may well increase Japanese consumption. Inputs into the industry by the bureacracy- in this case the private bureaucracy within Japan- bring the product, which I think would sell in greater quantities but for the exorbitant price, to Japanese consumers at a price in excess of $6 per kilogram. The price received under existing agreements for Australian sales of beef in Japan is considerable less than $2 a kilogram, the differential being made up of moneys which are taken out of the beef industry by the Livestock Industry Promotion Corporation, an organisation which controls the imports, the marketing and the retail sale outlets of beef within Japan. 
Today we became aware of an alarming announcement by the United States of America that there is a suggestion that the American imports will be varied on a year to year basis. For the Australian beef grower, this is a very serious suggestion because the United States constitutes the major and best Australian market. Australian beef does not constitute a serious threat within that market, representating a very small proportion, a complementary proportion, of the American market. The American Secretary of Agriculture has suggested that a cyclical import arrangement may be introduced whereby imports would be at a higher level in some years than in others. This would destroy almost totally any hope of rationalising the beef industry within Australia and any hope of bringing about the sorts of market reforms and export market stability which are important if the industry is to be returned to a viable state. I think it is important also to point out that the problems which confront the beef industry are long term problems which are concerned with not only terms of trade but also the weakness in the market place of the beef producer. He is extraordinary weak, as are most primary producers in the market place. Until recent years he has tended to resist, to his own detriment, change in methods of marketing his products or means by which his products come to the market place. 
Very largely he has been a conformist with the auction system and has allowed himself to be manipulated by persons better organised and more commercial in the market place. The Japanese operation of our exports, for instance, is a perfect example. We send more than one bidder into the Japanese market place to sell beef to a single buyer with the result that we end up with the lowest possible price, not the best price for our export product, which disadvantages the grower but not the meat companies which are selling in the market because their bidding in the auction system is arranged so that their share of the price is taken out and the grower gets the thin end of the stick. It is as simple as that and that is the basic problem through the whole of the industry. 
There obviously are problems in other areas where assistance could be rendered. This Bill merely attempts to remove a disability from one section of the beef industry which has been extremely hard hit. In some areas of the industry it has been suggested that this type of agreement should be more uniformly spread among and passed on to other growers who have not dissimilar problems, but at the moment I suggest that the House ought to be considering- it should have done so much earlier- arrangements by which the industry can have a type of stability and the grower can be given undertakings or have market arrangements established which will enable him to receive a reasonable price for his product. One does not sell any product other than primary products in Australia to the bidder, quite often a single bidder, for the price the purchaser wishes to pay. If I may just use a parallel, a person does not go to General-Motors or to the Ford Motor Company and bid for a motor car because they do not wheel them out the gate and say: 'What will you give us for them'. They tell you how much you will pay. But the cattle grower and most other primary producers do in fact take their products to the market place and say to the buyer: 'How much will you give me for it?' They accept, and are forced to accept, whatever price is offered. 
There is some movement in the area of beef classification. It is slow and it has taken the Government a long time to agree to underwrite such a scheme when it is accepted. The pressure coming from the industry itself is most likely the greatest that has been experienced in any primary industry. I suggest that it is pressure which ultimately will bring about a far stronger primary industry in Australia. I do not believe that those who go quietly or tend to feel that it is nasty or not proper to put their documented and proper cases before governments, and to go public if necessary, in order to have their industry problems dealt with seriously on the basis of the industry's real needs and the real needs of those who are participating in that industry, do themselves any service. It is important that the spokesmen for the industry put their case firmly and without favour. For too long political considerations often have overridden the needs of an industry and the case has been put not on the basis of the needs of the industry but quite often on the basis of industry politics, organisational politics or just straight out party politics. I think that has now passed. 
We are going through a phase of change in primary industry organisations which ultimately will be to the good of the whole of primary industry. I believe the other thing which is to the good of primary industry itself is that the producers are corning to the view in most industries that it is necessary for them to have marketing arrangements which will enable them to sell their products from the strongest possible position. 
If I may refer to other sections of the beef industry statement which was made by the Minister for Primary Industry which is the derivative of the legislation we have before us and therefore very relevant to that piece of legislation, the Minister announced a scheme under which $10 a head up to 200 head could be made available to beef growers for various processes which could be undertaken by them. Among the processes are spaying, drenching and other control measures including measures associated with the brucellosis eradication campaign, which is an area in which the Government ought to have some concern. It would seem to me that the program of eradication very likely will not be completed at the due date and if this happens it could have an effect on overseas markets especially in the United States and in Europe. There are serious problems arising from the very shortage of funds within the industry whereby control measures are unable to be implemented. I am certain that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  who is sitting at the table, will realise there are problems between his State of New South Wales and the State of Victoria because programs are progressing at different rates and according to different timetables which, if they are not altered very soon, will result in almost having to create a sea of where the River Murray is in order to protect those areas in which brucellosis has been eradicated from those areas in which the program is not as well advanced. 
There is another problem which certainly affects New South Wales and which, I think, affects other States. This could be the subject in the not too distant future of industrial problems within the industry if it is not solved at a political level, and that is the workers compensation side of the brucellosis eradication campaign as regards infection and the problems associated with abattoirs involved in the program. I think some action by the Federal Government is necessary in this area in order to make sure firstly that those abattoirs which are properly equipped and are able to deal with infected animals are utilised without disability to the grower or to persons working within the industry. Also the anomalous problems within the workers compensation legislation and the problems that are being aggravated because insurance companies are forced to protect their interests in the area of workers compensation should be ironed out. I understand that discussions are taking place on this between the States and the people within the industry, but it does constitute a threat which I think is understandable. The disease is communicable to human beings. There is at least evidence that the disease has been caught unknowingly by human beings. There also is evidence to suggest that it is extremely difficult to establish that the disease has been caught in the work place and this involves a serious problem of workers' compensation. I raise that matter because all the assistance in the world and all the goodwill in the world will not solve the problems of the industry unless the smaller problems of those who work in the industry are looked at. This particular problem could have serious repercussions. 
Tonight I will not mention the need for the animal health laboratory, which is currently deferred. I merely point out that the industry may well suffer very serious losses if the Government continues to defer that project indefinitely. It is an insurance project and it is a long term insurance project because its completion will take eight years. We are running on luck at the moment, or hope, in that area and we must hope that we have eight years plus to allow for whatever delays are placed in the way of the completion of that project. 
Finally, I think the House should realise that we may well in the future have considerably more of this type of legislation before the House unless there is a substantial change in the approach to marketing, a speeding up of the classifications scheme and an approach to the industry whereby not only do the processors get their share but the employees in the abattoirs and other processing works get their share and the growers get their share. In the United States at the moment the grower receives something like 56 per cent of the retail price. In Australia it is below 35 per cent and in many cases far lower than that. The industry cannot continue to operate unless the grower's share of the price in the market place is comparable with his costs in placing his product in the market place. The product should be sold on that basis. I repeat what I said before: People cannot go to the Ford or to General Motors and say: 'We will give you $2,000 for a car'. The companies would laugh and say that it costs $7,000 or $10,000 or whatever it is and that if the people do not want the car they do not have to buy it. That sort of thing cannot quite be done with cattle, but plenty of perishable products are sold in the market place on the same basis. It should be possible and is possible to devise marketing methods which will guarantee the grower a price which is comparable with what he is entitled to expect from the market place. 
We are not good sellers. I suggest that we are poor sellers in the export areas because there is no reason that the exporting companies need to obtain a better price. The situation in Japan and in other areas where exporters compete against one another for contracts on the basis of who can bid the lowest is not in the best interests of the industry. The Australian Meat and Live-stock Corporation should be in the market place seeking the best possible price. I am extremely concerned at statements made by the newly appointed  chairman  of that organisation that it will not operate differently from the old Australian Meat Board, the reason the legislation for the Corporation was put through this Parliament, the reason it was sought by the industry and the reason it should be acceptable to the industry is that it was expected to operate differently. It expected to play a more vigorous and a more active role in the market place and in the industry. If it is, as the new  chairman  has said, not to be different from the Australian Meat Board the value of the organisation is nil. I am certain that the industry itself is not prepared to accept that situation. I can inform the House that the Opposition would expect the Corporation to act in the manner in which this Parliament and the industry expects it to act and not in the way in which the old Meat Board acted. The legislation was passed for specific reasons. If the  chairman  is not prepared to carry out the provisions of the legislation actively I think the industry is entitled to demand that a person be appointed to that position who will. 
The Opposition does not oppose this Bill or the subsequent legislation which will come before the House. It merely points out that this legislation is at best a patching operation and at worst an operation which will provide little relief and, in the case of the Beef Industry (Incentive Payments) Bill, possibly financial administrative nightmares for those people who become involved in seeking assistance under it. It is legislation which is aimed to assist. For that reason the Opposition does not oppose the Bill but points out that far more substantial areas of government activity are required if there are not to be many more such Bills to prop up sections of the industry. 
Debate interrupted. 
I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
It is almost 1 1 o'clock. I think it is time that the debate was adjourned. 
Question put. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That this House disagrees with the statement by the Prime Minister made during a television interview that under some  circumstances it is in order for public servants to steal documents and pass them on to other persons. 
I briefly want to make some remarks about the report. Unfortunately we have not had time to read the contents of the report, but my understanding is that the recommendation of the committee of inquiry is that  Mr Toomer  be transferred to Tullamarine as a quarantine officer. This in effect would mean that he has been demoted from a senior quarantine officer to a quarantine officer. It also, I think, means that the bureaucracy of the Department of Health has been upheld in its earlier decision to demote him and place him at Port Hedland. I do not want to enter into the merits of the case further because it is very difficult to comment on the findings contained in a report which has just been tabled and which at this stage I have not seen. 
The case itself, I think, is one which is of historic importance and one of which the Parliament ought to take note. Firstly, the inquiry was set up- I should say that it spans a period of two governments, not only the period of the present Government; I want that clearly understoodonly after a royal commission into the Public Service recommended that a judicial inquiry should be held and it was found that because of some deficiencies in the law such an inquiry should not be held. Therefore an internal Public Service inquiry was held. 
My concern about this whole episode is that basically it commenced over disagreements between public servants with little or no experience in quarantine matters and a quarantine officer who I believe was conscientiously seeking to cany out his duties, whether or not over conscientiously, and I find it difficult to say that any quarantine officer could ever overreact in the area of quarantine because of the substantial importance of quarantine within Australia. I think it is unfortunate that the judicial inquiry could not have been held because of the circumstances, some of which have been the subject of questions, and one question to which I received a reply yesterday, about the inspection in Sydney of M.V.  Vishna Kalyan,  in which a member of the first inquiry into this area, the Director of the Department of Health in New South Wales, was in fact present. Whilst it may be that only inquiries were taking place on the methods of quarantine operations, there are other circumstances surrounding that inspection, one of which is still the subject of questions on the Notice Paper, regarding the captain being given a clearance by a non-quarantine officer, which have to lay as matters which could have influenced the course of the inquiry. I imagine- I think the experience of us all would suggest this- that where a member of a former committee which has in fact brought in a decision fully upholding the decisions of the Western Australian branch of the Department of Health, and an associated director of the Department of Health in another State is present at the time of such inquiry, he would be seeking to place the best possible interpretation on the decisions which were taken by the committee of which he himself was a member. 
I hope, irrespective of the findings of this committee of inquiry, that it does not close inquiries into the total quarantine service. I do not believe that the quarantine service should be judged on the sins, omissions or successes of one quarantine officer or the disputes which he may have had on personality or other grounds with officers of his department. I make that point quite clearly. I believe that there are very substantial pounds for some degree of inquiry into whether the quarantine service should be an independent service operating similar to the Bureau of Customs, if not in association with it, so that it is not subject to any departmental direction even though departmental umbrella structures may support it. I think it is important that inquiries m that area should take place and continue. The service is too important for any hint of interference, other than for purely quarantine or administrative reasons. 
The situation in Western Australia may or may not have improved. Certainly, from the early history of the Toomer case, it was less than satisfactory. I think that the persons who carried out the original inquiry did not get the full facts. I am certain that personality clashes in Western Australia acted to the detriment of the service and most likely created a far greater problem in the Toomer case than would have existed otherwise. I took this opportunity to speak without having studied the report. I will study the report with some interest. This is the last occasion on which we will be able to comment on it in this Parliament. This matter will be rather old news by the start of the next Parliament. I hope that this report will not preclude further inquiries into the structure and operations of Australia's quarantine service, which will become increasingly important as the number of persons and the types of transport coming into and going out of Australia increase. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Commonwealth of Australia Branch Delegation to the 23rd Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference held in Canada. A limited number of copies are available from the Table Office. Copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. Personal copies will be distributed to all members of the Branch. Additional copies will be made available for general distribution in the near future. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-In the absence of the leader of the Australian Branch Delegation, the Honourable Bert Kelly, I make a brief report on the Delegation to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference held in Ottawa in October this year. One matter which received considerable publicity in Australia related to one of the Australian delegates,  Senator Bonner,  and to alleged criticisms by him of the Canadian hosts. I think that in fairness to  Senator Bonner  it is important that I report to the House on what I see as the circumstances surrounding that.  Senator Bonner  was asked by a sensational newspaper whether he had seen any indigenous minority groups on his tours of Canada prior to the conference. He informed the journalist, who rang him late at night, that he had not. Subsequently the journalist said: 'Isn't that a pity'.  Senator Bonner  said: 'I suppose it is a shame'. A headline which appeared the next day in the newspaper which would be akin to some of our more sensational rags, intimated that  Senator Bonner  had said: 'Shame on the Canadian Government for not allowing visits to minority groups'. 
The  Speaker  of the Parliament, who was the  President  of the Conference, indicated at the Conference that the Canadians had done everything they possibly could to meet the requests of delegates. I think that was a quite proper statement. I think  Senator Bonner  and everyone else agreed with it.  Mr Kelly  indicated that the Australian Delegation was happy with the treatment it had received. There were some misunderstandings surrounding this case. I think they were unfortunate. I think it is important that the House be informed that  Senator Bonner,  in my opinion, was the victim of a beat-up story by a journalist. I think most honourable members in this House will understand what that is all about. 
The Conference adopted a new constitution for the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association which changes the arrangements with regard to the Executive General Council and other matters. These are set out in the report. I shall not go into them here. The one matter of substance that I think I ought to report on arising from the Conference was the organised manner in which delegates from the Malaysian area carried out a concerted attack on Australia relating to trade and other matters. All their speeches, I suggest, were prepared in advance before being delivered at the Conference. The honourable member for Indi,  Mr Holten,  who was a member of the committee concerned, replied on behalf of Australia. But in the face of such an attack I think it will be necessary at future conferences for at least some members of delegations to international conferences from the parliamentary area to be provided with briefs from departments setting out exactly what the Australian Government s position has been, even if this information is provided only to the leader of the delegation. This Conference was used for the purpose of pursuing a line to the disadvantage of Australia. The information which was available to delegates was generally on the public record and I suggest, not sufficient to rebut the type of attack which was obviously derived from government departments, the delegation being led by a Minister. 
I think all delegates to the Conference would say that it was very successful and one at which discussions were on a far more intense and real level than some conferences one attends where there is piety and argument is avoided. This Conference I think discussed real questions well. I think the incident of the Press reports relating to one of the members of our delegation- I personally think he was blameless- was unfortunate. I think the delegation was well received in Canada and that the Canadians did a great job in presenting the Conference. 
I second the motion. The application of the gag to this motion is in line with gags moved in relation to other motions which have disclosed that Ministers are in some difficulties. A former Opposition in this House would have used the word 'corrupt', but we do not use that type of language. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That the honourable member for Corio be not further heard. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Mr Morris's)  be agreed to. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Can he say what taxes or charges which are levied by all State governments and local government bodies are not levied in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What taxes or charges which are levied in the Australian Capital Territory are not levied in the States. 
What is the average per capita sum paid in taxes and Government charges in (a) the ACT ana (b) each of the States. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 April 1 977: 
1 ) What is the net cost per annum to public revenue of maintaining the necessary facilities for commercial air transport for the carriage of passengers and freight in each State and Territory. 
There are no significant taxes or charges which are levied in the Australian Capital Territory and not in the States. 
State, local and territory taxation, (taxes, regulatory fees and fines) per head of mean population in 1 975-76: 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
Has his Department or any other Government source undertaken a study of, or established a priority scale for, the use of natural gas and petroleum products. 
If so, what level of priority is given to the use of natural gas for (a) private motor vehicles and (b) the generation of electricity in areas which are sufficient in coal or water resources for the generation of electricity from those sources. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
1  ) What financing institutions are available to provide loans to primary producers in each State. 
What restrictions on loans exist in each case. 
Which institutions specialise in rural lending. 
Which schemes result from (a) State and (b) Commonwealth Government initiatives. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
Did members of the Committee of Inquiry on the Toomer case participate in the irregular quarantine inspection procedures on the M.V.  Vishna Kalyan  in Sydney. 
Will he cancel the current inquiry and establish an independent inquiry as recommended by the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 14 September 1977: 
Has he informed beef greyer organisations that the Government will back any stabilisation scheme agreed upon by the States. 
If so, did he indicate the basis of the support. 
What limits will be placed on the quantity of beef accepted at guaranteed prices. 
Has the Government indicated what approximate level of financial assistance will be available from the Commonwealth for a beef stabilisation and classification scheme. 
If not, will the industry and the States be disadvantaged in discussions on a stabilisation scheme if this basic information is not available during the planning stages. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice on 14 September 1977: 
Based on current official estimates, how many beef producers will have taxable incomes between $3,500 and 6,000 during 1977-78. 
Will the marginal tax rate on additional, Le. non-farm income for these beef growers increase from 27 cents in the dollar to 32 cents in the dollar under the tax scales to apply from 1 February 1978. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 19 October 1977: 
How many persons were registered as unemployed in Commonwealth Employment Service offices covering the Electoral Divisions of (a) McMillan, (b) Bendigo, (c) Ballaarat, (d) Deakin, (e) Casey, (!) Corio and (g) Corangamite at the end of (i) August 1975, (ii) August 1976 and (iii) August 1977. 
What percentage of those registered was (a) male, (b) female, (c) under 2 1 years of age and (d) 2 1 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
-I should like to offer my congratulations to the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar).  He comes to an office which I am sure will give him some pleasure and some traumas. I should also like to pay tribute to the defeated candidate, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  He has served as  Chairman  of Committees during the major part of the time that I have been a member of this Parliament and has occupied the chair in that capacity or as Temporary  Chairman  during the whole of the period that I have been a member of the Parliament. He served in that office for longer than any other member in the history of the Parliament and did so with great distinction. The House has deemed that another person shall fill the office of  Chairman  of Committees and I wish that person well. I express the hope that, as his predecessor did, he will look after the interests of all members of the House and ensure that when he is in charge of the House the Standing Orders are applied fairly and impartially, as you yourself would wish,  Mr Speaker,  in order that all members obtain an adequate opportunity to put their points of view in this Parliament. 

 Mr CHARLES JONES ( Newcastle )-I should like to take the opportunity of congratulating the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his election in a very close contest. I hope that he will bring to this position the same degree of impartiality as did the former  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. I did not always agree with him, but that is understandable. At the same time, I believe that Philip Lucock did try to bring a degree of impartiality to the position he held. I know that he took great pride in the fact that he tried to be impartial. We in politics who become dedicated to causes believe that we are being impartial while the people sitting on the other side of the chamber see us as being one-eyed. In conclusion,  Mr Speaker,  I regret very much that you did not read out the telegram prior to the vote being taken. I think that you had a responsibility to the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  He sent a telegram to you as the custodian of the rights of this Parliament, the custodian of the rights of the members of this House. He sent a telegram to you not as Billy Snedden but as the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. The telegram was germane to the vote being conducted and you had a responsibility to convey to the House the contents of that telegram on behalf of the honourable member for Lyne. We know that it was for family reasons that the honourable member was not present in the chamber this afternoon. I am certain that he would be just as disappointed in your conduct as I am. You have displayed already that degree of partiality which you assured the House earlier that you would not indulge in - 
I should like to add my support to the remarks of the honourable members for Mallee  (Mr Fisher).  I think that in the circumstances of the case that he has cited a statement from the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  should be made to this House. 
-I understand that the honourable member for Bendigo does not know what is going on in this place. I am making a speech, as I am entitled to do. I did not realise just how dense he was. The matter which the honourable member for Mallee has raised is of some consequence, as I would have thought that even the honourable member for Bendigo would agree. The Australian Industry Development Corporation is moving to close or to sell off an organisation which believes that it can trade its way out of its present difficulties. This organisationthe Co-operative Farmers and Graziers Direct Meat Supply Ltd- has very substantial assets but if the present procedures continue it will mean that the members of the co-operative will lose those assets and they will be transferred to an organisation at very much below their real value. I think that is something which is important especially as it is a farmers' co-operative which has had difficulties before and traded out of them and as this is a difficult period for the meat industry generally. I think this House is entitled to an explanation from the Minister as to why the organisation is to be sold off, what action the government is able to take and what discussions have taken place with the AIDC. 
I want to raise another matter in this adjournment debate. During the recent election campaign and immediately following it considerable discussion arose because of unfortunate discoveries in Australia of a virus of the bluetongue disease. During the campaign it was announced that funds would be made available to commence construction of the National Animal Health Laboratories at Geelong. So far no announcements have been made of contracts but I understand that contracts are undergoing preparation. 
-I think good judgment is shown sometimes. There are a number of aspects which I think the House ought to consider. My understanding is that a substantially new design has been developed for this project and that a contract will be let on that basis. I draw to the attention of the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  that if that is a fact then it is most likely that it will be necessary for him to prepare and present to this Parliament a motion which would exempt the new design from examination by the Public Works Committee because substantial alterations which were considered to that design some time ago could render the decision of the Parliament out of date and invalid. It is only a matter of the Minister submitting a motion to enable the work to proceed so as to overcome any legal difficulties which may exist. I draw this to the attention of the Minster more to be helpful, if that is necessary, and not in any way being critical. I hope that the project is not delayed for any reason. 
The other matter which I am concerned about in regard to this project- I have raised it in the House before- is the low priority which the Government gave to the project during the two years of its previous term in office and prior to what became a serious threat to substantial sections of primary industry. It is a long lead time project. It will not be in operation for some six to eight years. During the two years- the Minister for Primary Industry acknowledged this during the election campaign- the Government kept deferring the matter on the ground that it did not consider it had high enough priority to warrant an allocation of funds. The project is urgent to protect vital areas of primary industry. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Millar)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I have a personal explanation to make. 
-I wish to address the House on the same subject as was dealt with by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  Before doing so, I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your election to the position of  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy Speaker  and hope that your term in office will be a successful one. At this stage I do not intend to make solid statements about defence or defence capacity. It is my intention, however, to draw attention to some of those matters relating to defence which I think it proper that this Parliament should consider and discuss and about which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  should make clear the position of the defence forces and the Government. In 20 minutes one can most likely touch only the surface but this is one of the few opportunities which exist to raise this type of matter. The honourable member for St George has already mentioned the rating that defence has in the Government's order of priorities, but I draw the attention of the House to another part of the Governor-General's Speech in which the only significant mention of defence really occurs. It states: 
The Government will continue its policy of increasing the proportion of defence spending allocated to capital investment and new equipment purchases. 
The statement in itself is most likely a logical one and in line with the best advice which the Government obtains on defence needs. However, given that the defence budget is not altering, given that the cost of the existing manpower is increasing and given that the Government has indicated an increase in that manpower, I find it difficult to understand how that statement can be given any force at all. If the cost of the human resources in the defence area is to increase- those human resources are to be increased- and the total funds are not to be increased- that is the import, I would give the statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  in an interview on  Four Corners  last Saturday night- then how are the ratios changed in the manner indicated in the Governor-General's Speech? I draw attention to that matter because I think it is a starting point from which we ought to examine the whole area. 
In November 1976 the Government presented a White Paper on defence. It is a considerable document. I suggest that it makes a considerable number of assertions. It does not argue the validity of those assertions, and I think that in itself is also important because in any situation there are alternatives and in any major decision of the nature of a White Paper on defence or a strategic review there will be differing opinions among the experts and the advisers to the Government. Those people who finally make the decision have to make a value judgment as to what is correct. In an area such as defence I think it is important especially for the Parliament to be given at least some information concerning the alternative points of view because they might well be correct. For instance, it is said that in the British Parliament the minority point of view presented prior to the Second World War was in fact the correct point of view. I would most likely argue with that, but certainly with the benefit of hindsight the general advocacy, say of Winston Churchill, is now believed to have been the correct advocacy. 
There is in the White Paper no discussion of alternatives and no discussion or reasoning as to why certain decisions have been made. I think that is an important starting point if the correct decisions are to be made. The wisdom of the Cabinet, no matter which party is in Government, might be all prevailing but very often, given the benefit of hindsight, it is proven to be incorrect. Sometimes the incorrectness might be overcome by debate in the Parliament if the information were made readily available to it. I am concerned about a number of matters within the area of defence and I raise those matters today without making specific statements on where I stand with regard to them because I believe that they are matters in which one is entitled to give the serious consideration which cannot be given in five minutes. As I raise these matters I hope that the Minister will take note of them and that the Government may choose to provide the necessary information about them. 
I think the most important single area of activity confronting us at the moment is the question of surveillance and who will carry out that duty. The White Paper makes fairly clear that surveillance is the accepted responsibility of the defence forces. It also makes fairly clear that it is accepted that the major defensive area for Australia is the maritime one. I think subsequent discussions about that area indicate that that is a relatively correct judgment. Unfortunately, about two years after the event discussion is taking place. Given that, purchases of equipment have to be related to that judgment. If our defensive position is to make it extremely expensive in equipment, lives and effort for anyone to seek to invade part of Australia or to engage in activities such as harassment of the continent, then our defence equipment has to be able to perform the tasks of making the cost unacceptable. It is extremely doubtful whether the decisions in the White Paper about equipment meet that criterion, which also is stated in the White Paper. I believe that one other factor that should be taken into consideration in this sort of situation is the cost of equipment and the appropriateness of that equipment. One thing that we could say quite safely is that Australian servicemen have always performed in a manner of which Australians have been proud. Another is that, irrespective of which party is in office, the government of the day and those people who advocate defence as a major issue will not in peacetime, especially without an obvious threat, obtain sufficient funds to meet what are seen to be the defence requirements of the country. Sometimes a judgment must be made not as to what is desirable but as to what will come within the available funding. The major equipment purchases currently under discussion- I leave aside the third frigate which I fancy is committed, right or wrong- are fighter aircraft. The questions that ought to be raised are: What role do we see aircraft playing in the defence positions that we are developing, and what type of aircraft can meet that role best? There is no question that the senior officers of the Royal Australian Air Force will want the best possible aircraft as they see it. There is no question that the senior officers of the Army will want the best possible equipment as they see it. Similarly with the Royal Australian Navy. The problem is that the Treasurer cannot provide that. That is a realistic political statement. 
At the moment it appears that the Air Force wants to purchase the F15 aircraft. Apparently it is an extremely good aircraft. It is also extremely dear. I understand that purchase of the aircraft and other recommendations are under active consideration at the moment. Most likely Australia could buy a small number of aircraft which basically are suited to hard top airfields and which have an air superiority capability plus a strike role. One alternative- there are a number of alternatives- would be to revamp the Mirages. I understand that the air frame of the Mirage has approximately 10 years of life left. The Mirage can be updated to give a fighter capacity adequate to the likely needs of Australia during that period. It would not have a capacity as a strike aircraft. We could then examine what aircraft are available to meet the remaining requirementsmainly a strike capacity. Aircraft of this type are available at considerably lower cost and therefore can be obtained in a greater quantity for a given expenditure of funds. I emphasise that they could provide for Australia a better defence capacity, given the circumstances in which we are likely to use that capacity. Certainly we would have difficulty in meeting the defence forces of the United States of America or the Soviet Union in open combat, but we are hardly likely to expect to do that. That is a consideration that has to be looked at. 
Another very serious consideration is that the aircraft we purchase must be able to operate over a broader area and not be confined to hard top airfields. We have very few such airfields in Australia, and most likely it would be more expensive to construct the airfields needed than it would be to purchase the aircraft. I raise that point mainly because I think it is the sort of argument that this Parliament ought to be considering. We are not buying a Rolls Royce to drive around to give us prestige. We are buying something which will give us the maximum service which is desirable, which is necessary and which fits the funds that will be made available. I should like to deal at length with the allocation of funds, but time will not permit. 
Another matter that ought to be discussed by this Parliament, not a permanent heads committee, is who will accept responsibility for coastal and naval surveillance of Australian waters. I think the Minister's statements yesterday were quite misleading in context. I am fairly certain that the defence forces are now seeking to opt out of the surveillance role. They will suffer a loss if they do, because governments will not finance adequately two separate services, one military and one civilian, to carry out surveillance roles. The nation will lose out because a second rate civilian service and a poorly manned, equipped and financed military service will not give any real defensive capacity in what we would see as our major defence requirement and certainly will not give the protection that our fisheries officials and other people such as narcotics agents will expect and are entitled to expect. The armed Services have the organisational capacity. In fulfilling a surveillance role they would be seen to be performing a very useful role in peacetime which would help to justify their claims on the Budget. 
I am certain that those responsible for planning in this area are making a mistake in trying to get rid of this role. It is one that the Services alone can carry out adequately. It is one that can add usefully to the defence structure, not detract from it. To do the job properly there has to be an air and maritime command operating in the northern section of Australia to carry out surveillance. It is the type of thing we ought to be debating in this Parliament, and it ought to be the subject of public debate. It is not a black and white situation, as the Minister would have us believe. The areas of grey are far wider. I suggest that a surveillance force would provide us with an opportunity to utilise Autralian manufactured equipment. My understanding is that the Government Aircraft Factories Nomad Searchmaster is most likely the most cost effective aircraft to carry out this type of low intensity surveillance. Work would also be provided for the GAF if the upgrading of the Mirages were an accepted fact. Our aircraft industry needs that sort of support if its technical expertise is to be maintained. Without technical expertise any expenditure on defence is a waste. 
I want to raise one or two specific matters relating to defence expenditure. We hear a great deal about defence and the importance the Government places on defence. A few moments ago we heard about the importance of the Army Reserve. My understanding is that at the moment the Army Reserve is in severe financial problems. I have been informed that in Victoria parades are being cancelled because funds are not available. I am informed that recently in Western Australia the Army Reserve water transport group was addressed by  Major Menner  and asked whether the unit was prepared to carry on normal parades on a voluntary basis for six months, the alternative being that the group would have to be wound up because funds were no longer available to maintain it. My understanding is that in this instance the funds had been expended in providing services to United States ships that visited Western Australia as pan of their training exercises. A similar visit is due in the future. My understanding is that the requests for additional funds to cover the responsibilities which the group was given have been refused and therefore the group has no funds with which to carry on its activities. 
I raise this matter because there is a contradiction. An advertisement appeared in the Press in Victoria last week- I presume that a national advertising campaign was taking place- seeking recruits for the Army Reserve. In my electorate the Army has a permanent recruiting office which is manned one day a week. Last week within 150 yards of it was an Army information caravan especially taken to Geelong for the purpose of publicising the Army. If the recruiting office is viable on a permanent basis, I ask what the justification is for the expenditure on the information caravan. The Air Force will be in Geelong in a couple of weeks doing exactly the same duties. Why advertise for recruits for the Army Reserve if there is not enough money to pay them? I am reliably informed that the situation in Western Australia is as I have stated. I hope that the Minister is able to refute that. Nevertheless that is the information I have. I am reliably informed by members of the Army Reserve who have made direct complaints that in Victoria parades are being cancelled because funds are not available for the number of parades listed. Obviously other activities would be suffering. In the last months we have been through a series of events which have not been good for the image of the Defence Force. The recent issue of faulty ammunition had nothing to do with the Defence Force but was concerned solely with the manufacturers. A number of other cost cutting activities have taken place. 
I come back to the point with which I started. The White Paper, which on my reading suggests that its contents are no longer in line with what the Government is in fact doing or seeking to do, ought to be supported by argument. At least the opportunity should be provided in the Parliament for contrary points of view to be put. I have given notice of a motion to establish in this House a committee to carry out that sort of duty. I am fully aware that the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence does carry out those sorts of functions. I believe that the motion of which I have given notice is designed to establish a separate committee of this House whose function will be to allocate the funds. If its only purpose is to draw attention to the inadequacy of those funds or the lack of discussion on the claims for funds or the methods by which they are spent, then it will be a worthwhile exercise. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

I want to draw the attention of the House tonight to a matter which I think is of concern and which ought to be of concern to honourable members opposite. On Friday of this week the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  will open a rural sheltered workshop at Leopold just out of Geelong. The sheltered workshop has been under plan for some considerable time. It is the result of considerable efforts by members of the Geelong community. Karingal already operates a sheltered workshop and school in Geelong. It has been established for a number of years. 
When the committee applied to the Commonwealth for subsidy assistance for the provision of machinery to enable its workshop to be fully utilised the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  indicated that it would not be allowed to register as a sheltered workshop with the Commonwealth until 1 July 1979 and thus would not be eligible for subsidy for machinery until that time. This matter has been taken up with the Minister by me, by  Senator Grimes  and by  Senator Melzer,  with the same result. The Minister has indicated that the Commonwealth did not know the centre was being constructed. I find that almost impossible to believe, especially as it was being constructed with the full knowledge and co-operation of the Victorian Government. My experience in these matters in which Commonwealth subsidies are involved is that there are some lines of communication between State and Commonwealth bodies. 
Recently the Commonwealth even went so far as to seek to prevent the sheltered workshop provisions on pensions being applied to those who would be employed in this workshop on the ground that it was not a registered sheltered workshop recognised by the Commonwealth. That difficulty was overcome, and the Department of Social Security backed down on that question. At least the people will not be denied the pensions which they are entitled to receive and which I think this Government or any government should not even have considered seeking to deny them. But there still exists the situation of the subsidies for machinery. If the committee of the sheltered workshop spends the funds that it has, which will enable it to purchase the necessary machinery with Commonwealth subsidy, it cannot on registration some 15 months from now seek a refund of the cost of the subsidy part of the machinery. 
The committee is in an impossible situation. A much needed facility has been constructed with the full approval of the Victorian Government and, I suggest, with the knowledge of the Commonwealth although the Commonwealth is now denying knowledge, and the committee is told by the Minister concerned that it must wait until 1979 before it can be registered as a sheltered workshop and thus apply under the Handicapped Persons (Assistance) Act for subsidy for purchase of machinery which is necessary in order for the organisation to be viable. If this is the sort of measure that the Government has in mind in order to cut corners on costing, I think that the Government ought to say that handicapped people desperately in need of sheltered workshop employment are the people whom it thinks should suffer. It is not a matter of a fixed sum of money. It is a matter of registration and acceptance of the fact that the sheltered workshop has been constructed. 
On Friday the Premier of Victoria will say all sorts of nice things about how his Government, the Federal Government and everyone else are concerned about the handicapped, what a great thing it is that the committee has gone to this effort and has established this sheltered workshop and what a great benefit it will be to the community. This does not get past the fact that the committee will have to wait until July next year before it can purchase machinery on which to employ people. Those are the facts that I raise tonight. In the last Parliament the Minister told us that she would consider the matter. I think it is about time that she considered the matter and that the Government considered its position in respect of this matter. I think it is quite callous that a community organisation, in the full knowledge that subsidies are available, should be prevented from utilising facilities to provide employment for the handicapped because of a regulation which has nothing to do with the Act. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I will not delay the House long but I would question the combination of the areas of foreign affairs and defence in this Committee. I think it is apparent to all members that the question of defence will be one of the major considerations, financially and otherwise, of this Parliament in the next few years. It will be particularly important financially. At this stage there are two items alone before the Department of Defence and, I would presume, before the Government, which could cost in excess of $4 billion. The Parliament ultimately will be asked to appropriate funds for those purposes. There are alternatives. Consideration and discussion of the actual expenditure of money in the defence area and also the restructuring and reformation of the defence forces will be taking place as a matter of course in the next few years. We are probably, at this stage, entering a period of the greatest change in the structure of the defence forces in this country that has ever taken place. On the world scene we are entering the period of greatest change since the invention of gunpowder. 
I think it is worthwhile that this House should consider whether or not defence and the future planning of defence should stand alone. Parliament, preferably this House which is responsible for the appropriation of funds, should have a defence preparedness committee or a defence committeecall it what you will- to examine those items relating to defence as well as a foreign affairs committee to concentrate on that area alone. I know that sub-committees have been formed and that the Committee operates in some areas almost on a dual committee basis but I think this subject matter is of sufficient importance and the ramifications for the future expenditure and structure of the defence forces in Australia are such that a separate committee ought to be formed. 
-This Bill seeks to amend substantially the Control of Naval Waters Act 1918. It also seeks to change a number of definitions to take account of technological change and other forms of change which have occurred since 1918. The Act was amended in 1966 to write in some 'mysterious' sign language called decimal measurement. Apart from that, the Act has remained substantially unaltered since 1918. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. It acknowledges that control over naval facilities, as with other defence facilities, is a proper function and something with which the Parliament should deal. There are, however, some matters relating to the Bill that should be drawn to the attention of the House. Technological change has made it necessary for the legislation to be updated, to cover for instance, skin divers who may operate in naval waters. There is some doubt whether such persons are covered under the terms of the Act. The Bill also seeks to cover aircraft, which although they existed then apparently were not considered to be of significance when the original legislation was drafted. 
The mobility of the general population over water and land has increased markedly, especially in recent years. I draw the attention of the Minister for Construction and Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay)  to the fact that the Bill does not appear to give protection to the public against obscure proclamations or regulations made with short lead times. As a result little opportunity could exist for those concerned to be aware of the existence of a proclaimed area. It would be difficult to draw lines or build fences around sections of open area which would be subject to proclamation under the proposed legislation. I think it is important that persons who utilise areas that may at any given time be proclaimed are given adequate warning and proper descriptions of those areas. This information should be given especially in cases where the proclamation is likely to be of a short term rather than of permanent duration. I do not think it is unreasonable to expect that people would, after a reasonable period, become acquainted with what are regular naval facilities or areas proclaimed as naval areas. 
The Bill provides for the making of temporary proclamations. These give cause of some concern unless there are means by which the public can be protected. For instance, a special issue of the Government  Gazette  printed at midnight to apply from 4 o'clock the following morning, could meet the requirements of the Act as it now stands. However, such a provision would certainly not meet the requirements of common justice in the case of a person found to be in breach of the legislation who could be subject to six months imprisonment or an updated fine under this legislation of $ 1 ,000. 
Another new provision in the Bill is that the Governor-General may proclaim or declare all vessels, or specified vessels, belonging to the naval forces of a specified country as being covered by this legislation. Most honourable members will remember the problems that arose recently in New Zealand as a consequence of a visit to that country by a United States of America nuclear vessel. The right to protect a vessel under those circumstances is not challenged. However, I make the point that the right of the Governor-General, and thus the government, to make such a proclamation which could affect persons who believe they are legitimately carrying out activities which they are entitled to perform in a democratic society should also be accompanied by very definite and clear guidelines or requirements as to when and how such a declaration may be made and how the areas may be defined. 
As the legislation stands it will be possible to declare as naval waters the whole, or a section, of Sydney Harbour and as a result prevent any movement whatsoever on the harbour without any advance notice other than a published notice in the Commonwealth  Gazette,  which must be about the most obscure publication in the Commonwealth. That seems, under the Act, to be the only requirement. I think it is important that the Minister indicates the means by which proclamations will be made, the means by which the description of areas so proclaimed will be advised and the terminology which will be used. After all, one can put buoys but not markers on the open sea. Persons who regularly use an area which may be temporarily proclaimed are entitled to know that what they did yesterday may well be illegal today. They are entitled to know this information in terms which they will understand and from sources which they are entitled to be expected to see or hear. 
As I said, the Opposition does not oppose the Bill. However, it believes that the Bill should spell out what protection will be given to individuals who may be caught by a sudden proclamation. Whilst the Minister may say that that is not likely to happen, I think the experience in this Parliament in the last two years has been that where circumstances have arisen where the Government has taken action, subsequently to find that it was either improper or actually illegal, this Parliament and the community have been totally ignored and their rights ignored. In some cases where people have actually taken legal action successfully they have found themselves wasting their money because retrospective legislation has been pushed through the Parliament in order to deny them the rights to which the courts have said they were legally entitled under the law at the time. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill, but I would hope that the Minister can clarify the points that I have raised, especially the ones in respect of the declaration of foreign vessels. It could be that this is an area where controversy will arise. I do not think that the Bill is intended for that purpose, although it could be used for a purpose for which I hope it is not designed. 
-The House has debated tariff policy over a considerable period and I think that most honourable members will regret the fact that on this occasion the former honourable member for Wakefield,  Mr Bert  Kelly, is not here to take the pan of the Industries Assistance Commission. I suppose there will be other members who, to some degree, will support the decisions of the IAC but the former honourable member for Wakefield was a very strong advocate of free trade policies. I do not think that I could be regarded, over a period of time, as being a very strong supporter of IAC recommendations. In fact, I wonder at times whether its recommendations have any relevance at all for the Australian scene. Recommendations such as those in the car industry report of 1973, if implemented, would have the effect in many instances of removing large numbers of industrial workers from the Australian work force. That particular report suggested that the level of assistance to the car industry should be a 25 per cent tariff. I think most honourable members would be aware that there would be no car industry in Australia now if that report had been adopted. The Government of the day adopted a different plan, not necessarily a satisfactory solution, but a compromise between what people would like to do and what the community can afford to have. 
This Bill changes fairly radically the powers of the IAC. One of the changes which I am not sure is an advance is to give the Minister the ability to direct the IAC on priorities relating to its reports. The previous legislation set down certain guidelines on which the IAC was required to make reports and I think those guidelines were often ignored or overlooked. Nevertheless, the guidelines were there. At least one knew previously that the reports were the result of an inquiry. In future we will not necessarily know whether the recommendations are the result of an inquiry or are, in fact, pre-determined by the guidelines set down by the Government. If the Government really wishes to make policy without the advice of the IAC, it should accept the political consequences and not use another body in order to get a mirror reflection of its original requirements. That could happen under this particular piece of legislation. 
I believe in protection. I believe that Australian industry can not survive without levels of protection in certain areas- not all areas, but certain areas. I do not agree with the proposition which is often put by proponents of low tariffs and proponents of open trade that under the circumstances which exist in the trading world, we can, without penalty, remove protection from Australian industry and necessarily have the total economy benefit. 
I am not in a position to comment on that. But I do say that one factor which I do not see referred to very often by those who talk about free trade, is the levels of subsidy and assistance which interfere with equality of trade opportunity on behalf of importers. One European country in the textile industry for some considerable time has met as a subsidy to exporters the total cost of any protection or penalties involved in getting goods into Australia. Other countries which make a lot of noise about access to Australian markets are in fact providing tax concessions, rent concessions and fixed wage conditions well below the proper economic wage level of the country concerned. This alters the competitive nature of Australian industry to its detriment. There is no question at all that Australia can import shoes, clothing, textiles and motor cars at a price lower than that which is charged on the market at the moment. There is also no question at all, although many leading economists would have us believe otherwise, that to do so we would have to remove work opportunities from approximately 15 per cent of the work force. 
Manufacturing industry at the moment represents between 20 per cent and 22 per cent of the work force in Australia. I think it is nearer to 20 per cent than 22 per cent. The proportion is declining. But the present Government's policies, rightly or wrongly, are not placing very great restrictions on growth in the nonmanufacturing work force. There is certainly little evidence that the minerals industry, the uranium industry or agriculture will absorb any substantial proportions of the work force in the future. So, if we continue to have a declining work force in manufacturing industry, no replacement employment opportunities will be created. The amendment moved by the Opposition points out the need for long term planning. In the short term we may be able to prop up industries without much effort if we are totally prepared or if we are to a substantial extent prepared to use quotas. I make this point about quotas: We can certainly impose quotas to exclude imports from the Australian market place, thus guaranteeing that X quantity of goods or X number of motor cars will be made and sold in Australia at whatever price and whatever levels of efficiency as may exist. We can certainly do that for a time, but I doubt whether we can do that for an unlimited time. 
There are penalties involved in not looking at the longer term future of manufacturing industry. A White Paper on Manufacturing Industry was presented in the last Parliament. To my knowledge, that is as far as the matter has gone. There is certainly no real infrastructure available for industry to be assisted, if necessary, to change its methods of operation and for new industries to evolve. This Bill does not make a great deal of difference. Government pronouncements by some Ministers do not help. There is a clash of interest in the Australian community. The Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council has published what it says is substantive evidence that because of tariffs each farmer in Australia contributes $11,000 a year to revenue. I would obviously challenge the accuracy of that figure; nevertheless, the claim has been made. There is no doubt that if we had no manufacturing industry and imports were able to replace the goods previously made in Australia, there would be some reflection in the levels of the value of Australian currency to the benefit of export industries. I am almost certain that those who would benefit from that situation would not receive any financial benefits in the long run because the great bulk of our population would have to be supported by revenue from income tax. Those who gained wealth by that sort of situation would in the end pay the income tax in order to support the people who were no longer creating income. We cannot have it both ways. Half the population cannot be put out of work while the other half benefits. It just does not happen that way. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  has said on at least one occasion- I think he has done so on a number of occasionsthat he does not support high protection policies and the the present protection levels are likely to remain only while the economy is in a downward trend or a trough. I think the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other Ministers have taken a different point of view. Those who are likely to invest in modernising plant, in replacing obsolete machinery or in training people to take over the managerial side of businesses which need protection, which need confidence in order to continue, will note that sort of statement. No matter what the Government says, while that sort of threat is present investment in that area will not take place. 
I think we in this Parliament must look at realities wherever possible. I do not like the situation which this Bill brings about whereby a political decision can be manipulated so that it appears to be the decision of an independent body- and that is what appears to be in the Bill. I think that on occasions, an objective examination of an industry does that industry good, even if the only result is that the industry has to look at itself in order to prepare a selfjustification. The situation is very much like confession: It has a purifying effect. But I do not think that the Industries Assistance Commission has had a confidence building effect because its recommendations seem to have rarely taken into account the submissions which have been made to it. Certainly it does not appear to have taken into account the consequences of its actions. I remember that in its initial report on the motor vehicle industry the Industries Assistance Commission indicated that there would be increasing employment in the industry rather than a reduction in employment if its proposals were adopted. 
-I suggest that if the IAC's report had been adopted there would have been an increase in unemployment. There would have been no employment at all in South Australia and we would be lucky if any car firm were doing anything more than assembling in Australia. In fact I doubt whether there would have been any assembling being done in Australia. People who do not have to accept the consequences of their actions are able to make very objective judgments. I would like to suggest that we could open up trade to the whole world and aid other people. I do not believe we are in a position to do so. We are more open in our trade than most Western countries. We are certainly more open than our major trading partners. We cannot get goods into Japan with a shoe horn. Anyone who thinks he can export manufactured goods to that country ought to forget about it. There are other countries in our region which are seeking an opening up of trade, which have a very high economic level of activity and which could not, under any circumstances, be designated as underprivileged. 
I think the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  who preceded me in this debate would agree with me when I say that- and this is particularly so in my electorate- if protection is removed from industry, be it the textile industry, the motor vehicle industry or the farm implements making industy, and an open market situation were to occur, there would be a permanent unemployment level of 20 per cent. There are no alternative areas to move into. I have yet to hear one of the economists or academics who write theses about moving labour into more efficient areas of production say what are those areas of production. If they exist and if they are economically and financially viable, are Australian or foreign businessmen who invest in this country so stupid as not to be already active in these fields? 
There is not much profit and not much joy for anyone who invests in the textile industry. It is of no use investing in the motor vehicle industry. It might be a good thing not to have invested in two motor vehicle companies this year, although anyone who has invested in the motor vehicle industry over a longer period would have done very well. No one in his right mind would invest in the textile industry in Australia under the circumstances which prevail at the moment. There is no guaranteed future in that industry. There is no guaranteed future in the footwear industry, although it is likely that it is the most protected industry, possibly the most over protected industry in existence. But if the level of protection is changed the trading balance will be altered to the extent where that industry just cannot exist any longer. Those people who still have jobs, although they feel that those jobs are unsatisfactory, are a damned sight better off than those who have no job at all. Those jobs are supporting Australians. 
I am most likely talking like a Philistine, but outside the door of my electorate office I can see the kids who go to the local office of the Commonwealth Employment Service. I see them there daily. At the beginning it is a bit of a thing for them. After three months they are demoralised. After six months they are almost cot cases. After 12 months they can no longer be regarded as members of our society; hope has gone. Some people can survive it; others cannot. It is a most demoralising experience, especially for those people who live in an area in which work opportunities are slim. These people are sent to an employer week after week for the purpose of having a piece of paper signed in order to justify the payment to them of the unemployment benefit. 
I illustrate my point by referring to a gentleman I interviewed who for two years has been trying to get himself a job. The payment of unemployment benefit to him was chopped off because it was said that he was not trying. He had sustained a back injury. At no stage during the whole of that period was the CES able to refer him to one job. What hope does such a person have for the future? He is a relatively young man. That is the son of situation we will create if we open up our markets and be friends with everyone. The Common Market will not open its doors; Japan will not do it. The paragons of virtue in the United States have extraordinarly high levels of protection for people who constantly ask others to lower their barriers. We cannot even get Australian wool into the United States without a bounty of 25c in the lb. being imposed on it- and the United States is short of wool. 
I think the Government is answerable on a number of counts. One of them is that, despite a lot of talk and despite a lot of promises, it has yet really to face up to and to tackle the problem of what will happen to our manufacturing industries if something more than sustenance is not forthcoming. Sustenance is all we are about at the moment. We cannot protect with tariffs because we cannot make them high enough to give protection. The imposition of quotas is a form of protection, but some encouragement has to be given to industry to modernise, to keep up. I have already said that anyone who invested in some sections of industry at the moment would be absolutely mad. But that investment has to take place. 
An equally important aspect of this matter is that young people entering into the education system have to be provided with confidence to train for executive and managerial positions in secondary and manufacturing industries. That is a long term investment by any student, by any person, in his future. Such people have to realise that there is a future at the end of the line. Too many people who trained for jobs which they thought would exist now are walking into a wilderness. Manufacturing industry has not been popular in the past as an academic training area. It is popular at the moment because not many opportunities are available elsewhere. People are embarking on business study courses in very large numbers, but they are doing so because they cannot see anything else that they can do. If we are to get the best out of our industry we have to get the best of the available talent going into all levels of our industry. 
We are not training tradesmen in Australia in the numbers that are required. The Government is very seriously at fault in that regard. We are not giving encouragement to people to enter those areas where they are needed most, such as in the area of managerial skills. That would allow our industries to become more competitive. Many Australian industries have been taken over by foreign capital and suddenly blossomed out into great success. That has not occurred because Australians cannot achieve the same result; it has occurred because of a lack of long term confidence. Honourable members opposite can blame it on whatever they wish. I suggest that the Government has a responsibility to set long term guidelines and to introduce policies which will enable long term planning to take place. That would enable our industries to become competitive and would enable to take place the sort of investment which is required to create the employment which is so necessary. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Will he provide details of the statistical method used to establish his assessment that primary producers paid $50m additional tax because of changes in the tax averaging provisions in the 1 975-76 Budget. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Productivity. Have the Government Aircraft Factories presented a submission to the Government for the provision of Nomad Searchmaster aircraft for surveillance work? What stage of development has it reached? What is the date on which delivery of these aircraft is anticipated to take place? Is the projected price of these aircraft competitive with that of similar aircraft and less than the $45 million-odd quoted for another aircraft last week by the Minister for Defence? 
-In the short time available tonight I raise a matter which is of some concern to me and to a number of people in my electorate. In Pentridge Gaol in Melbourne at the moment there are two Cape coloured South Africans named La Fleur. They are being held for deportation. They have not received the sort of publicity which would normally go with this type of deportation because at all times they have refused to act in any way which would embarrass the Australian Government. They are substantially accepted in the Geelong community and they have contributed as well as any other citizen. The father, Arthur La Fleur, has been in Australia for some two years now. He was first arrested for deportation some time in September of last year. He was subsequently released about 10 days before the last election after having been held for seven weeks at Midway Hostel. Deportation orders were subsequently confirmed by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  I mentioned to the Minister that I intended to raise this matter tonight. 
I make the point that these two South Africans are being condemned, by their deportation to South Africa, to a second-class citizenship existence. They are of that section of the community which, at one time, was accepted in South Africa as not being coloured but subsequently, as the laws were tightened up, they were declared to be coloured. They have easily obtained and maintained employment. They are obviously respected by their employers. They were given back their jobs even though the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs forced them to take seven weeks ' leave. The union of which they are members has made representations to the Minister on their behalf as have a large number of people in the Geelong area who know them. 
I raise this matter because I think the Government might show some compassion. I suggest that we would not send people back to some countries because of the station to which they were returning and under which they would have to live. To deport to South Africa coloured people who are good citizens and against whom this country has nothing, other than that they came here in the only way possible- under a tourist visa- and then sought to stay, is a crime. But if one is sufficiently desperate that is the only means available. While it is wrong, people who make these sorts of decisions sometimes have to decide whether they will undertake that sort of action in order to come to Australia or whether they will merely give up. We congratulate and accept with open arms people who leave countries such as Hungary and Czechoslovakia. 
-Is the Minister for Defence aware that on 15 March 1973, five years ago today, the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  indicated that he was shocked and concerned that no study of the requirements for the defence of Australia was in existence? I ask the Minister: Did the then Minister also announce on 10 October 1973 that such a study had been commenced? Can the Minister inform the House whether that study was completed? If so, is the report still in existence? 
-I support the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  In order that the House can fully understand the amendment I will read the major points of it. The amendment indicates that the Government's legislative program as outlined in the GovernorGeneral's Speech fails to deal adequately with record levels of unemployment; fails to stimulate productive output; leaves serious uncertainty about the progress of the Australian economy; ignores the serious recession in the international economy; fails to provide long-term guidelines for industry; and neglects to provide firm guarantees for the protection of civil liberties by legislative enactment within the powers of the Australian Government. Each of these points clearly is correct, and can be seen by anyone who cares to read the Governor-General 's Speech. 
The honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  made an interesting speech. At one stage in his speech he extolled the virtues of free enterprise and claimed that we have a free enterprise government. But at another stage in his speech he made it quite clear that under no circumstances did he support free enterprise or free competition, which is supposed to be the basis of free enterprise. In fact, his speech indicated that the greatest failing of the socialist government, as he called it, was that it took action to reduce the limitations placed on free enterprise within Australia. I will not argue about providing protection to industries one way or the other, but the honourable member cannot have it both ways. If he says that he is a supporter of free enterprise he has to support free enterprise. If in fact he is a supporter of private capital socialism, I think he ought to say so. In fact, this Government is not a free enterprise government, and any other government which is likely to take office in Australia- be it a National Country Party government or a Liberal Party government- will not be a free enterprise government. 
The facts on unemployment are that the level of unemployment has consistently risen since this Government came into office and it will continue to rise unless the Government takes other policy initiatives which are designed to stimulate the economy and bring about a restoration of the sort of confidence which would enable employment opportunities to develop. That will not be easy; it may well by now be impossible. A continuation of the present stagnation policies will bring about a situation in which the level of unemployment must continue to rise. If anyone wants to stop inflation, that is very easy. One just stops all forms of money flow and all forms of commercial activity and closes down the nation totally. In that way one will have no inflation; make no mistakes about that. One will have chaos and ruin. One will have no industry and no employment, but one will certainly have got rid of inflation. At the moment the direction of government policy is to close down everything in the name of restricting inflation. 
We have heard in this House from the Government for two years now and for 12 months before that when it was in Opposition that one of the reasons for the substantial rate of inflation is deficit budgeting. The Government makes a virtue of blaming deficit budgeting. When in Opposition members opposite were not in any way averse to increasing the government deficit by $800m when they rejected the initial levy to pay for the Medibank scheme. They voted against it in the Senate and in this House. The deficit was added to by $800m by the gentlemen who now sit on the Treasury benches. They now talk about the evils of large deficits. 
The Japanese economy, which I think most members opposite would suggest has a lower rate of inflation now than we have, last year had a 32 per cent deficit. That Government was proposing to increase its deficit in order to stimulate the Japanese economy. If that occurred in Australia- 
-Thirty two per cent of the Japanese Budget was being financed by private banks. The deficit of expenditure over revenue was 32 per cent. The amendment sets out quite clearly the shortcomings of the GovernorGeneral's Speech. I will deal with one other matter. We hear almost daily about a return to parliamentary integrity, about the need for parliamentary integrity and the needs of the institution of Parliament. In this debate a few moments ago the honourable member for North Sydney dealt with the need for a surveillance force. I took him to say that we ought to establish a coastguard service to defend northern Australia. At this stage I do not want to debate that matter. I think this Parliament ought to debate what sort of defence and surveillance forces we should have and how they should be manned and financed. I think it is a province of the Parliament. I do not think it is something that should be tucked away in a back room where a number of departmental officers with axes to grind and seeking to gain favour for some later project by agreeing with someone else and playing tradeoffsthat is what this is all about- should make a decision which has severe implications for the budgetary, defence and national sovereignty policies of this country. It is a matter about which members of Parliament ought to be at least consulted and given the opportunity to discuss and investigate fully. 
The honourable member for North Sydney suggested that we ought to examine the situation relating to the United States Coastguard. I cannot imagine anything less relevant to the Australian situation than the United States coastguard. It has 35,000 men. America's coastline is about the same size as ours. The United States Coastguard has 272 large ships, including 23 of over 3,000 tons. The figure of 272 most likely exceeds the number of ships in our Navy. It also has several hundred aircraft, small boats, helicopters and other forms of equipment. The US 
Coastguard is not relevant to the Australian situation. We do not have the funds to provide those facilities for our defence forces, let alone a subsidiary coastguard force. We ought to be looking at how we can carry out surveillance of the Australian coast within the finances that are available. We should ensure that the best use is made of those facilities, capacities and skills which are available within Australia and which are within our capacity to employ. We cannot have everything we want, as much as we would like it. 
We must have what we can afford and what will serve the purpose of surveillance and maintenance of our territorial integrity. I do not think it can be done by a separate force. I believe all that would happen is that two forces would be bidding against one another for the same facilities. It would be far better to maintain the existing type of arrangement or adopt a new arrangement whereby the defence forces carry out the actual physical duties on an agency or similar basis. I know how the defence forces treat incursions into their budgets. It is up to the Government to make sure that the incursions do not occur. I do not think it is a defence to put up spurious arguments about incapacity when the capacity exists and, I think, the responsibility exists. I think the defence forces should be engaged in shooting wars and should have a direct responsibag to protect the sovereignty and integrity of Australia and its territorial areas. 
I started to mention the integrity of Parliament I think the integrity of Parliament means not adopting slogans but guaranteeing its own integrity by its actions. We must give serious consideration to matters which come before us. We must make serious attempts to put forward what are the right policies or what are seen to be the right policies, not what are seen to be things which will be momentarily popular in the electorate. I refer honourable members to Edmund Burke's speech to the electors of Bristol in which he told his constituents quite clearly that he was not their agent but that he was their representative; they elected him to use his judgment on their behalf, not to do what they thought was popular at any given time. 
There is one other thing that I think seriously impinges upon the parliament, but not necessarily this Parliament. Those honourable members who have been following the events in Victoria will know that  Sir Gregory  Gowans yesterday presented a report to the Victorian Parliament on what has been known as the lands affair. The report casts some doubts on the judgment of a Minister. It said that there was no negligence on the part of any Minister. I accept the report. I will not challenge its validity. The Parliament and Ministers in Parliament suffer because of the nature of that report. No one accepts responsibility for millions of dollars of taxpayers money being squandered, misappropriated and misused in Victoria. That is a reflection on the parliamentary system. Someone is responsible. Although no wrong is committed a Minister is still responsible for the actions of his department. 
Let me talk about another matter which occurred in the Victorian Parliament not very long ago. A man was elected to the Victorian Legislative Council. The same man will either this year or next year be elected without challenge to the Victorian Legislative Assembly. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I remind the honourable member for Corio that he is speaking to the amendment which has been moved to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. He is covering a wide range of subjects. I have allowed him a lot of latitude. I think he should come back to the amendment before the Chair. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I am dealing with the sixth paragraph of the amendment which suggests that the GovernorGeneral's Speech has failed to provide firm guarantees to protect the civil liberties of the Australian people. Surely, the Parliament must be one of the instruments by which civil liberties ought to be protected. 
-I second the motion. I find it quite strange that the Government is afraid to discuss in this House unemployment and the ramifications of unemployment. 
That the honourable member for Corio be not further heard. 
Question put. 
The House divided (  Mr Speaker-Rt Hon. Sir Billy  Snedden) 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill 1978 which provides funds for the continued maintenance of existing softwood plantings under the softwood forestry agreements. However, on behalf of the Opposition I move an amendment in the following terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that the Government should continue to provide funds to the States for new plantings in the same proportion as in previous agreements, of about 50 per cent, in order to ensure that reasonable continuity of planting rates is maintained '. 
The purpose of the amendment is to seek a continuing Commonwealth contribution to plantings of softwoods in Australia. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics in a study released last year estimated that plantings of 30,000 hectares would lead to a domestic surplus of softwoods by the year 2020. It is the opinion of the Opposition however that if Commonwealth support for plantings falls off the States will not increase their expenditure in order to obtain a level of plantings which would bring about that surplus situation. In fact, a deficit situation will be created. 
The industry, in the softwoods area, is fairly cost effective when compared with imported timbers. The softwoods section is relatively efficient. There seems to be a sound economic case for a continuation of the Commonwealth 's providing funds for such plantings. The Opposition believes some conditions should apply to the availability of those funds. One condition is that cognisance be taken of the report on softwoods of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. This report was presented some time ago. We believe that any clearing of hardwood forests for the purpose of replanting would not be in the best interests of the long-term future of the natural environment or of the nation. Plantings on already cleared land which is becoming available for this purpose can be and are being undertaken commercially. We believe that Commonwealth assistance at this level would ensure a continued planting arrangement which would provide Australia with a substantial proportion of its timber needs into the distant future. 
Obviously there are good economic reasons for seeking to obtain a reasonable level of timber from our own resources. One of these reasons obviously is the continuing cost of freight. Any significant shortfalls could well be extremely expensive in freight terms and in purchasing terms in the near future. Obviously supplies of timber at relatively competitive rates are available for importation to Australia at this stage. If, however, Australia reaches a shortfall situation where it becomes significantly dependent on imports the rates at which we purchase could well change considerably. The amounts of money which would be involved if the amendment were accepted would not be great, but they would contribute to a continuity of supply of softwoods for timber and other purposes. 
My understanding is that softwood planting is a fairly good income earner for those who undertake it. It brings in something of the order of $ 120 to $ 130 a hectare per annum which is a better return on land usage than is available from a considerable number of more popular or better publicly accepted activities. There are obviously delays m collecting returns. 
The Opposition, as I have indicated, does not oppose the Bill. The amendment seeks to have the Government continue the agreement whereby the Commonwealth provides funds, on a 50 per cent basis, for future or continued plantings of softwoods. My understanding is that most States would like to continue these programs. Experience suggests that they are more likely to do so if Commonwealth funds are made available. A fairly rapid drop-off in expenditure in the States can be expected if Commonwealth funds are not reallocated into this area. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  who will second the amendment, will deal more fully with the environmental aspects. I draw to the attention of the House the fact that whilst wishing continuity we also make it clear that we do not believe that it should be at the cost of the destruction of hardwood forests or the clearing of new lands for the purpose. Adequate lands are available which are already cleared. These can be utilised for this purpose with good commercial effect. We believe that the environmental aspects of replanting should be taken into consideration and be part of any agreement under which funds are made available for the purpose in the future. As I have indicated, the Opposition does not oppose the second reading of the Bill but asks the Government to give consideration to the matters contained in the amendment. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
1 ) Are different interpretations of de facto relationships applied by various Government departments. 
If so, do the opposing definitions used by the Taxation Commissioner and the Department of Social Security disadvantage the individual and benefit consolidated revenue as a consequence. 
Why does the Taxation Commissioner treat a de facto spouse as single while the Department of Social Security treats a de facto spouse as married. 
Will he take action to eliminate these differing interpretations. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
1 ) Has he been in contact with the Japanese Government regarding the disputed Australian-Japanese sugar contracts. 
If so, by what method and on what dates. 
Will he table in the Parliament transcripts or copies of any communication. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 22 February 1 978: 
1 ) What is the average landed cost of Australian beef per kilogram in (a) Japan, (b) the United States of America and (c) the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
What percentage of the average landed price is received by the grower. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What is the present staff structure of the Australian Embassy in Paris, including staff of other Departments and locally engaged staff. 
) What is the classification of each employee. 
What was the staff structure as at (a) November 1975 and (b) November 1976 and were all positions filled at those dates. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Has bis attention been drawn to reports that the Ambassador and staff of the Australian Embassy in Belgrade were subject to harassment by officers of the Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation. 
If so, were reports on personal activities of members of the mission submitted to the Department of Foreign Affairs without the authorisation or knowledge of the Ambassador. 
Were members of the Embassy staff withdrawn because of the information contained in these reports. 
Were the claims contained in the reports verified by his Department before action was taken. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Did the use of illegal surveillance at the Australian Embassy in Belgrade constitute the removal of authority from the Ambassador and his effective replacement by an officer of the Australian Security and Intelligence Organisation. 
) What action was taken to protect the Ambassador and his staff from domination by security officers. 
Does this case indicate that the Department of Foreign Affairs is subservient to ASIO. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1 978: 
1 ) Which persons in (a) the Australian Capital Territory, (b) the Northern Territory and (c) each Australian State are entitled to diplomatic immunity. 
What was the nationality and rank of each of these persons as at 7 March 1 978. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Was replacement of the obsolete Honeywell computers of the Department of Defence authorised by the Government in 1972? Did the Government in 1976 accept tenders from Univac Computer Systems for the supply of two replacement computers? Has only one of the two required Univac computers actually been purchased? Has the purchase of the second Univac computer been deferred, thus rendering the initial computer inoperative? Did the Government recently purchase a refurbished obsolete Honeywell H820 computer costing $2.2m? Have delays in the implementation of the initial decision to purchase the Univac replacement computers resulted in severe criticism of the Department of Defence by the Auditor-General and in a de facto reversal of the Government's original replacement decision and the decision to award the replacement contracts to Univac over Honeywell? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Have Australian Army Reserve units cut training parades and other training activities because of shortages of funds. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Have members of the Australian Army Reserve Water Transport Unit in Western Australia been told funds have run out to pay the Unit's costs for the remainder of 1 977-78. 
If so, were Austraiian Army Reserve members in this unit asked to parade without pay. 
Were funds allotted for the Unit's operations used in exercises involving units of the United States Navy. 
Are similar exercises planned during a similar visit by US Naval vessels shortly. 
Have additional funds been sought and denied to enable the Unit to carry out normal training programs. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
To whom were Army Units used in the recent civil security operations responsible. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
To what extent have offset arrangements under the Leopard tank purchase agreement been honoured. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Did Drake International provide clerical and other forms of assistance to Ministers of the present Government while they were in opposition. 
Has that organisation recently received work from Government departments despite the fact that it is one of the highest cost organisations in its field. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
Did he state publicly that the tax changes in the 1 975-76 Budget were inequitable and irresponsible. 
Was he in office as Treasurer within 72 hours of the 1 975-76 Budget receiving Royal Assent. 
If so, what changes were made in these income tax proposals during 1975-76. 
If these taxation provisions were considered inequitable why did he fail to amend them on taking office following the 1975 General Election. 
I am concerned about the motion and the methods by which documents are to be given parliamentary privilege. This occurred a couple of years ago in the Senate when statements which were completely without foundation were given parliamentary privilege. Therefore, persons who may or may not have been named in those documents were exonerated in regard to the publishing of libel in relation to the statements they made. If the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  wishes to give the documents parliamentary privilege he should go through the whole exercise of having the paper printed. I do not think he ought to use this device. I am concerned about the use of parliamentary privilege to protect statements which are not made in this House and which are not at this stage relevant to the proceedings of this House. I do not object to public information or the provision of public information. If the Leader of the House wishes to give public information I think he ought to go through the processes which normally take place of publishing the information in report form, even if it is only a report on the conduct of  Dr Brych,  and making it a procedure of this Parliament. 
If I write a book in which I slander every person in Australia and come into this House and say that I think the slander is public information, should I be entitled to the protection of parliamentary privilege? I think that is really what it is all about. It is an important issue, but I think we are misusing the forms of this House in seeking parliamentary privilege to cover those documents. If the Leader of the House wants to table them and move that they be printed, that is within his power. To use a device to give them parliamentary privilege is, I think, a misuse of the forms of the House. 
-The announcement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has been expected  for some  considerable time. The Opposition acknowledges the need for a replacement aircraft for the Mirage. I am not sure that we accept that the statement made by the Minister fulfils the strategic announcements already made by the Government and the defence role for our armed services set out in the White Paper. There is every appearance in this statement that we are in fact opting for a fashionable air-to-air fighter aircraft rather than a defence capacity aircraft to carry out the roles set out in the White Paper. This has happened before and it is likely to happen in the future. On Tuesday of this week, in answer to a question on notice from the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  the Minister made this statement about the requirement of the tactical fighter force replacement: 
The primary roles for the TFF encompass air-to-air and air-to-surface capacities. These capabilities include air defence, air superiority, interdiction including maritime strike, tactical reconnaissance and close support. 
The statement indicates that these roles have been narrowed in the last few days to a primary air-to-air defence role. We are not satisfied that that fits the statements contained in the White Paper on Australian Defence. I will read the statement that I refer to which appears on page 1 3 of the White Papen 
Any confrontation or conflict would be, initially at least, maritime in character. 
The basic need, as I understand it, of Australian defence strategy is self-dependence and a minimum of reliance on the interference or the availability of an ally to provide areas of defence which are not available to Australia. As I read the document, our defence capacity is supposed to be based on our ability to maintain and provide a major strike capacity in order to increase the cost and thus reduce the probability of any form of incursion against Australian territory. The air-to-air capacity which is referred to tends to presuppose that as a primary defence task we will be involved in air-to-air dog fight roles. I doubt very much whether that is the major and most significant strategic consideration in Australia's defence role. The Minister for Defence has said that this is potentially- I note the use of the word 'potentially '-the most expensive defence procurement likely to be made in the near future. There is one on the 'horizon', if I may use the word, which could be potentially as expensive if the Government eventually decides to adopt that project. 
I wish to present some figures that I have been able to obtain. They are only estimates based on published figures. I will deal firstly with the purchase of a single squadron of FI 5 aircraft because it seems to me that this statement is drawn in relation to the purchase of that aircraft. I have the feeling that the change in the role of the aircraft which we are to procure too neatly fits the change in the decisions of the United States of America on the stages to which that aircraft is to be developed. A strike capacity is not to be provided in the United States version of the aircraft and the strike capacity seems to have been removed from the Australian requirements. Perhaps it is a coincidence but I think that it is too much of a coincidence. The purchase of 25 FI 5 aircraft would involve a program costing of the order of $750m. The purchase of F18A aircraft would cost approximately the same. One would doubt whether there would be any offset procurements available in respect of the F16 aircraft in view of the very wide-ranging offsets already entered into by the company concerned with the Australian Government. The cost for the purchase of those aircraft would amount to $400m to $500m. I turn to deal with the two European aircraft, the Mirage and the Tornado. It would appear that they, along with the FI 8 aircraft, would provide something of a balanced capacity in the aircraft types needed to enhance our defence capacity if our strategic assessment of protecting Australia from an incursion is, in fact, the primary role. The cost of those aircraft would run to about $800m to $900m. That is the position based on the Minister's statement in which he talks about one squadron of aircraft. I do not confess that the figures I have given represent the actual cost which has or has not been assessed. They are the figures which I can assess. 
If the Mirage aircraft is to be modified, its modification must be in an air-to-air strike capacity. On the information I am able to obtain, the aircraft is not suitable for strike operations. Its attitude and design make it a dangerous aircraft to fly and its airframe life would be jeopardised seriously if an attack type capacity were to be built into the aircraft. The Mirage can be modified to give it a reasonable air-to-air capacity in close combat. But the published reports on recent exercises suggests that while, in fact, the aircraft did well in close air combat with F14 aircraft, the umpires acknowledged that the F14 had wiped out the Mirage long before they had reached a close combat situation. Therefore, it is academic whether any such close combat would take place. 
This statement by the Minister indicates that the Government has opted for a piece of equipment about which I would express extreme doubts as to whether it fits an actual defence role of the significance which the cost of procurement indicates. We believe that the most pressing air need at the moment for the Australian defence forces, given the strategic announcements which have been made about the strategic role which we would expect our forces to undertake, would be an aircraft with a substantial air strike capacity against maritime targets. The Minister talks in his statement of support for a surface operations. But it is doubtful whether an enemy's attack capacity is likely to be of a fighter or strike aircraft type which would be likely to engage in air-to-air combat. I turn to deal with the vehicle by which weapons are transported to the point of delivery in any modern war. I would think that any nation seeking to enter into an engagement with Australia at least would have access to relatively modern weapons. Such vehicles are likely to be some distance apart and certainly not in a head-on or an individual force attack role. The F18A or the Tornado aircraft at least would provide some degree of capacity for a strike role. But the whole of this statement by the Minister indicates that a decision has been taken that we should have an aircraft which will fill an up-front dog fight glamour role. I hope that is not true. But it is a very major item of equipment. I believe that such an item of equipment must be chosen on the basis of how it fits in with all the defence forces and with what the Government and professional defence advisers see as the means by which the defence of Australia will be carried out. Obviously, we cannot have all of the equipment. 
Recently I read an article by one commentator in which he said that cost should not be taken into consideration. I understand the Minister's difficulties. We cannot have all the equipment or the types of equipment which we desire. But it is essential that the equipment we have serves the purpose for which we see our defence forces being used to the best possible advantage. I do not see an air-to-air role fighter as one of the major necessities of such a role. I certainly see an aircraft with a strong modern strike capacity being essential. Obviously, the Mirage cannot be modernised for that purpose. The Fill aircraft can be equipped with strike weapons which will give some potential in that area. But 24 aircraft do not represent a major strike capacity and certainly do not represent a major deterrent. The Mirage aircraft has the problem of a range which is not sufficient on Australia's north and northwest coast to enable it to be fully and effectively operational. It can use only two air bases in that area. I would hope - 
-They are Learmonth and Darwin. I would hope that the Government will consider these aircraft and the statement that the Minister has made. It is a long-term investment which ought to have the support of both sides of the House and which ought to be fully explained and examined. The Government, prior to making an announcement on its decision, should be absolutely certain that we are not buying an aircraft because it fits neatly into what the Services see as desirable but rather that it fits absolutely into what is seen to be essential. That is a difference in the role and the purchase of the equipment which I wish to emphasise. What is essential to national defence in accordance with the best strategic advice that is available to us from all advisers and sources of information? I think 1 can say correctly that no person in this House has the capacity to assess the technical role or ability of an aircraft. We must all depend on the advice that is available. 
I must say one other thing about this statement. The statement mentions five aircraft, two of which are of European origin and two of which, I think, are in the very preliminary stages of design. Recently the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is reported to have made a statement- the Minister for Defence may deny it or otherwise- that he does not care what aircraft we buy as long as it is American. The statement is on record. I would hope that that policy is not to be a criterion in the purchase of the aircraft. This is a major purchase from an overseas country and it should be negotiated on the basis that is a major purchase. 
-Yes. We should buy the best aircraft to fit our defence needs, but we should ensure also that in doing so we do not close off our options in advance with statements such as that it must be American. 
-The Prime Minister is reported as saying it. I will provide the Minister with a copy of the report. I seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
It is a public report. It is not a secret. 
-It is from the  Australian Financial Review. 
-I have referred to the report, and I think it is right that I should present it to the House. If it is not accurate the Prime Minister has the means by which he can refute it. Based on that report, I must make two comments. The first is that the current decision is not in fact based on a revamping of the original specifications so that they meet the requirements of the aircraft which, I think, the original specifications were designed to meet, rather than our strategic needs. The second is that in the purchase of the aircraft the role of the aircraft must be paramount. The Opposition does not believe that airtoair capacity is the primary need of our defence forces at this stage. The primary need is for an aircraft which can provide strike capacity and some level of air superiority. The likelihood of dogfights over the Australian mainland or airtoair fights being the primary means of any defence operation I believe to be lower in priority than the need to provide a defence capacity which will deter any potential enemy from seeking to make inroads on the Australian mainland. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr McLeay)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 March 1 978: 
Are antennae on RAAF radar installations at Amberley and Darwin Air Force Bases seriously corroded and in danger of breakdown. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice on 8 March 1 978: 
Was the breakdown in radar installations at the Amberley Air Force Base due to corrosion in vital parts. 
If so, does similar corrosion exist in other radar installations. 
Have high levels of maintenance on these units been necessary for some rime. 
Have stocks of vital spares been (a) depleted and (b) not purchased. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) What action is proposed to reduce the proportion of Defence expenditure taken up by manpower, as foreshadowed in the Defence White Paper of November 1976 and repeated in the Governor-General's speech on 2 1 February 1978. 
What was the total expenditure on defence during 1 976-77 and what is the estimated sum for 1 977-78. 
What percentage of these sums was allocated to manpower and related expenditure. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) Have comparative evaluations been made of the following aircraft: (a) Viggen 37, (b) Jaguar, (c) Tornado, (d) F14, (e) F15, (f) F16, (g) F18, (h) Corsair and (i) Mirage 2000. 
Did the Government state that the choice of a replacement aircraft for the Mirage would be from existing aircraft and not from proposed aircraft. 
Which aircraft have been actually subject to physical evaluation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) Are the patrol boats on order from Brooke Marine, being constructed to the original specifications. 
If modifications have been made, to what extent have these modifications affected the performance capacity of the patrol boats. 
Does the Government require modification to such an extent that the performance will be reduced to only marginally above that of the attack class that they are to replace. 
-The proposal before the Committee calls for an inquiry. I think it should be understood that the Victorian Government has denied an inquiry. That has been stated by  Mr Harm,  a spokesman for the National Country Party in Victoria. The Victorian Government is afraid that people in high places in Victoria will be revealed as trying to destroy the society. In fact, we are dealing with a guarantee of $4.5m. We are discussing whether or not this Parliament is to authorise a guarantee of $4.5m to a company. The Victorian Government has known for two years of the illegal activities which got the company into trouble but it has not acted on that knowledge at all. There must be reasons for that. If the sums of money are to be advanced or made payable, we have the right at least to ask whether or not the Victorian Government's house is in order, because it would seem that it is not in order. 
An examination of the Victorian Government's record reveals that is has consistently refused to conduct inquiries into matters in relation to which there have been considerable doubts about its integrity. Only when public pressure has forced such inquiries has the Victorian Government given in and held them. At the moment it is withholding a report on the Victorian Housing Commission because it knows that the release of that report will mean the end of  Mr Dickie.  Of course, there is determination to keep him in office irrespective of what he has done. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member will confine his remarks to the amendment. 
As far as this particular piece of legislation is concerned, for a government to say, as the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has said, that it is reasonable to deal with a guarantee of $4.5m, which this Parliament and not the Victorian Parliament is putting up, without requiring the Victorian Government to inquire into the affairs of the company - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! If the honourable member for Bendigo will cease interjecting I might be able to get the honourable member for Corio to confine his remarks to the amendment. 
I think it is quite irresponsible of the Government not to make itself fully aware of the management and other problems associated with the company. If it were suggested that moneys of this nature be made available to some of the less popular organisations in this country, honourable members opposite would be on their feet demanding to know exactly where, why and how the funds were to be used. 
Those conditions would certainly be placed on any guarantee proposed to be given by a Labor Government. The Victorian Government's reputation for cover-ups is becoming increasingly well known. By refusing to accept this amendment, the present Federal Government is participating in that form of cover-up. 
-I ask the Minister for Defence: Has the office of Defence Ombudsman been vacant for some considerable time? Has any consideration been given to the appointment of a replacement for  Mr Hay  or is it intended to allow the office to remain unmanned? I also ask whether the Government has under consideration the restoration of the right of officers of the military forces to direct appeal to the GovernorGeneral not while making similar rights available to non-officer ranks. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the highlight of this debate has been the failure of the Government to debate the economy. 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this motion. At least it clarifies the situation and saves the sorts of hassles which can occur late in the afternoon. However, I suggest to the House that it may well be that the experiments with the sitting times are not successful. This experiment has been carried out on three occasions since I have been a member of the Parliament. On each occasion it has proved to be less than satisfactory to the House. It appears to arise each time there is an influx of new members. I think it was the former honourable member for Mackellar who fought for this reform. One Prime Minister who agreed to it suffered an untimely fate because of a sitting on a Friday. It may have been accidental. Nevertheless there has been a long history of sittings that finish early on a Friday not being very successful. 
It may be appropriate if, in determining sitting times and arrangements and before other experiments are carried out, either the Standing Orders Committee or an ad hoc committee of this House or of both Houses were to examine the various possibilities. I think that a return to the practice of sitting for three weeks on three days of each week is the most satisfactory arrangement. It was devised over a long period of time. Many propositions look attractive on paper but some of them are unattractive in practice. Previous experience ought to be a factor in determining these arrangements. Both the Government and the Opposition should seek to reach agreement on this type of change when it takes place. I am sorry that the arrangement of sitting for two weeks and having two weeks off did not work. 
-If some of the honourable members who enthusiastically supported this proposition in the first place and modified the original proposal had not done so the Government may have been a lot further advanced with Government Business than it is now. I am suggesting that any future experiments ought to be examined on a non-party basis or by both parties well before their introduction so that the problems which might arise can be resolved, if possible. 
-With the passing of the motion which will be moved for the suspension of the 1 1 o 'clock rule, a lot of new members in the Government ranks are about to find out what legislation by attrition is all about. Almost without fail, for three years this House has risen at 1 1 p.m. Even during the period of the Labor Government, the House rose at 1 1 p.m., and the disruption which the Government claims has taken place today is kindergarten stuff compared with the disruption which the present Government parties caused then. Honourable members who sought and had introduced the new sitting hours because they felt that they needed more time in their electorates and civilised sitting times for the Parliament are now voting to get rid of the conditions which have existed in the Parliament for more than three years. Many of them, because they were not here then, have not experienced the manner in which this Parliament was operated prior to 1972 by a conservative government. I point out to those honourable members who are so glibly accepting the suspension of the 1 1 o'clock rule that during one week the House sat till 1.45 one morning, 4.45 the next morning and 6.45 the following morning, only to start again at 10 o'clock the same morning. On that occasion the staff of the House refused to serve the House after midnight on the second day,  Hansard  was unable to man the House and the people who sit at the table and for whom no one has any consideration had time only to go home for a shower and then come back to continue their duties. Members on the Government side were counted in divisions sleeping in the aisles because they could not be woken. That was the situation then. 
-Not once. The only person who was asleep was the honourable member for 
Bendigo who continually slept because there was no one to wake him up. He was not gagged because he never said a word for three years. Members of the Government parties should think seriously before they agree to support this motion because once this House adopts this motion it will involve us again in all night sittings and the conduct of the business of the Australian Parliament will deteriorate. It has been pretty shabbily treated today by the Government which has refused to debate the most significant matter in the political arena in Australia today, the handling and future management of the Australian economy. We now have developing a situation where in order to facilitate the type of conduct about which I have spoken the Government is going to move the House into an all night sitting. There is no question that that is what is intended. We are now in the process of suspending the 11 o'clock rule although on the Notice Paper there are Bills of major importance which will not be adequately debated if this process is adopted. The Bills relating to airline equipment and the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill are matters of national importance which should receive serious and proper consideration in this Parliament. By 'proper' I do not mean - 
I would have made my point if honourable members opposite had refrained from interjecting. They should realise how stupid they are in supporting the motion for the suspension of the 1 1 o'clock rule. By suspending the 1 1 o'clock rule we are moving towards legislation by attrition, returning to the bad old days of 1970 and 1971. I will exclude 1972 because I think it is true to say that by that time the present Government parties had accepted the relatively civilised sitting times as being the order of the day. In fact, we used to go home at midnight then. Fred Daly later moved the adjournment forward another hour. The legislation which has yet to be considered if the 1 1 o'clock rule is suspended includes the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill which concerns one of the most significant problems in the urban areas of this nation. It is a Bill which has consequences for the rest of this century and it is proper that this Parliament should have the opportunity to consider fully the measures proposed to be introduced and the means by which this Government intends to deal with the problem. 
The most retrograde step that this Parliament could take would be to agree to the motion currently before the Chair thus clearing the way for the suspension of the 1 1 o'clock rule and returning this Parliament to the dark ages of the 1960s and 1970s when honourable members stood in this chamber at 4 o'clock and 5 o'clock in the morning putting forward points of view on behalf of the people they represented. I remember one night when 10 Country Party members felt it was important to discuss a wheat Bill and they spoke from 4.30 a.m. to 6.30 a.m. They felt that they had to speak and the Parliament kept sitting. But was that a reasonable time to discuss a matter which they considered to be of national importance? Is such conduct fair to the people who work in the Parliament? Is it fair to the Parliament itself? More importantly, members might ask themselves this: Is it fair to the nation that they should desert the national Parliament? 
-Well, the Leader of the National Country Party - 
I shall not delay the House long. I think it should be made clear that the responsibility of the Committee on Privileges is to hear matters referred to it by the House and to advise the House of its findings on those matters. The practice has been, with all the Committee reports that have been presented during the period in which I have been a member of this House- and there have been a number- that the Committee recommends to the House what action the House should take. It is the prerogative of the House to take such action as it wishes. I suggest to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  that he obtain copies of Privileges Committee reports that have been presented to the House in the last two or three Parliaments. He will see in each case that a finding was made and that the Committee also recommended a course of action to the House apart from that finding. 
I think the question at issue here is the question of privilege itself as opposed to the specific case. It may suit the House to consider the matters separately. But I agree with the honourable member for  Denison  (Mr  Hodgman). The House should determine its final attitude to the case referred to it as expeditiously as possible. It may be that the House will wish to hear the people concerned or wish to impose some other penalty. They are possibilities within the power of the House. I think they are not likely but if this is so then the House should move to that situation as speedily as possible. 
The question of whether the whole matter of privilege is referred to the Privileges Committee or whether some other course of action should be taken, such as setting up of a joint committee of the two Houses to study it- I understand that that has been suggested and it may well be a more appropriate vehicle- may require further consideration. But this is a fairly straightforward case unless complications arise. That, as I said, is possible. I do not think any member of this House will stand up and say that we should imprison the people. Certainly I refute the suggestion that the Privileges Committee  would  make a recommendation to the House which is outside the power of the House to carry out. The Privileges Committee is properly advised by the  Clerk  of the House on the question before it and is also properly advised of what actions it can take within the framework of privilege as it exists under the Constitution of this Commonwealth. 
Two questions are involved and I think they ought to be divorced when they are considered by the House. The first one is the specific matter of privilege referred to the House by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  on which a finding has been made and a course of action has been recommended in the Committee's report. The other recommendation is a general one relating to the inadequacy of privilege. It is a serious problem in any case heard by the Privileges Committee and I think that ought to be dealt with separately. 
-I support the motion which is before the House. The motion has two elements, both of which are of importance. The matter of privilege is important. One of the significant results of the inquiry is that, in addition to the findings and the recommendations made- I suggest that both the findings and the recommendations are the only ones that could have been made by the Committee- the Committee raised also the question of privilege. The privileges of this House and of the Senate are those which existed in the House of Commons at the time of Federation. The situation in relation to privileges in the House of Commons clearly has changed through usage since that time. To date this Parliament has chosen not to declare its privileges but rather to depend on the constitutional reference. I am not sure that, after an investigation, we would choose to do differently. However, I do think that there is validity in having such an investigation. 
Certainly the matter of the enforcement of privilege or the usage of privilege represents one of the most difficult of the Parliament's obligations and responsibilities. It is not difficult for the Privileges Committee to hear evidence and to determine whether or not privilege or, as in this case, contempt exists. The difficulty is that the Parliament, because of present attitudes and developing attitudes in the community and in the Parliament, has no methods at its disposal which it would readily use to enforce its authority. I doubt very much, for instance, whether we would lock up the judges of the High Court of Australia for a contempt of the Parliament, as in fact happened in a case involving the House of Commons at an earlier time. I doubt that at this stage the Parliament, except in the gravest of circumstances, would entertain a motion which sought imprisonment. The Parliament is denied almost all other real penalties. 
In the case of a person who has privileges, such as the right of access to this building or something of that nature, it can remove that right of access or in some other way reprimand the person concerned. But they are not real penalties. If the person concerned has in fact deliberately set out to create controversy and, having been taken up on that controversy, deliberately sets out to exploit it for purposes of sensationalism or for some other purpose, we can take the sort of action which I have described. I think it is relevant that the privileges of this House be examined and that a decision be made or at least advice sought on whether or not we can clearly define privilege and whether breaches of it can be acted upon by this House. An unenforceable power or an unenforceable right are no power or right at all. 
All Parliaments have their problems, especially when they do not do what the daily Press or some community spokesman suggests they ought to do and in those cases when they are not able to meet, for various reasons, the expectations which are placed upon them. Quite often they are not able to do that either because they do not have the authority to do so, as is the case with this Parliament- the Constitution limits authority- or because the sorts of problems which exist have to date defied solution by the best minds in the world. 
I turn now to the motion moved by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair).  We will look at the form of the joint committee which is proposed to be set up. The setting up of such a committee is dependent on the agreement of another House. If the setting up of a joint committee is not acceptable to the Senate, or if there appear to be difficulties in determining the form in which such a committee could operate, I hope that the House will entertain a motion for the setting up of a select committee of this House to examine its own privileges. I tend to agree with the suggestion that the Privileges Committee, which ultimately will have the responsibility of enforcing any changes or carrying through any changes which may take place, is most likely not the appropriate body to make recommendations in relation to the authorities which ought to be given by the Parliament. 
I will not say more at this stage. I comment only very briefly on the case out of which this motion arose. I think it is fair to say that  Mr Isaacson  acknowledged responsibility and accepted completely responsibility for the article, even though in evidence he said that he had not actually seen the article. As the editor-in-chief and the person who accepted responsibility for publication, he felt that the message his newspaper was seeking to convey in the editorial was not necessarily conveyed by the form of the editorial. I do not comment on any other part of the hearing which took place, other than to say that on the same day that the editorial appeared an article appeared in another newspaper which was not a contempt of Parliament, as I see it, but which was a contemptible article. That article was published in the  Canberra Times  and was drawn to the attention of the Committee. But such is the genius of the journalist concerned that he can earn his pay only by casting aspersions and reflections upon those persons who attended the opening of Parliament, namely, the wives and other guests of members, or on the Parliament itself.  His  given reason for doing so was that he had not been allowed to enter Parliament House because he had forgotten to bring his pass. When members of Parliament do not perform their function, they, as elected public figures, are entitled to criticism. I think it is cowardly for persons to seek to criticise other persons because they do not carry out their function. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Why does the Depanment of Social Security treat de facto relationships differently to the Taxation Commissioner. 
2 ) Will the Minister take action to correct this anomaly. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) How many officers of his Department were engaged (a) full-time and (b) part-time on duties associated with UNESCO as at (i) November 1975 and (ii) November 1 976 and what were the classifications of these officers. 
What are the corresponding details as at the present timer 
3 ) Are all positions currently occupied. 
Where are the positions located. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Are persons living together in a de facto relationship treated as a married couple for purposes of the social security means test, etc. 
Does the Taxation Commissioner reject claims for wives ' allowances in respect of de facto wives. 
) If so, will he have this anomaly corrected. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Is the RAAF radar installation at Amberley Air Force Base inoperable. 
If so, (a) what is the cause and (b) how long will it be inoperable. 
Does the installation at Eagle Farm Airport have similar range and capacity. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What was the total cost of the design study project for a 1 tonne 4x4 vehicle for the Australian Army. 
Were the prototype vehicles submitted for testing by (a) International Harvester Australia, and (b) the Ford Motor Company of Australia found to be satisfactory under test. 
3 ) Did any of the vehicles survive the test program. 
What was the estimated cost of production vehicles. 
Were the design specifications tailored to fit the requirements of the Australian defence forces. 
Have any vehicles been ordered; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Were the 1 tonne 4x4 vehicle prototypes developed by International Harvester Australia and the Ford Motor Company of Australia capable of providing the same functional requirements as the vehicles which were ordered from Leyland. 
Were the Ford Motor Company of Australia and International Harvester Australia invited to submit proposals for the 1 tonne 4x4 vehicle. 
Did the specifications exclude such proposals. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to reports that officers of the Australian Security and Intelligence Organization acted illegally in placing personnel of the Australian Embassy in Belgrade, including the Ambassador, under surveillance? 
If so, what procedures exist for the Attorney-General to examine reports or files of ASIO in order to establish whether illegal activities did take place? 
Has an investigation taken place; if so, with what result? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) Were the specifications for the procurement of 6 x 6 trucks for the Australian Army drawn up to meet European manufacturers' practices and specifications. 
If so, did the specifications ignore Australian Design Rules to become effective in 1978. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 March 1978: 
1 ) Has a short list of aircraft to replace the Mirage been recommended to the Government by the Defence Department. 
If so, has the Government accepted this recommendation as a basis for future consideration of the choice of a replacement aircraft. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Has he requested a full report on the clearance of the M.V.  Vishna Kalyan  in Sydney and subsequent fumigation of the vessel in Melbourne. 
' Was the master informed during the Sydney inspection that the inspection was part of an inquiry to get rid of a troublesome quarantine officer. 
Did the master make a statement to this effect in Melbourne before an officer of the Health Department quarantine service. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) It is normal procedure for letters of clearance to be given to ships' masters in respect of quarantine inspections by State Directors ofthe Department of Health. 
Has he ascertained the reason for the issue of a letter of clearance to a ship's master by the New South Wales Director of Health,  Dr Bull. 
Has he established whether  Dr Bull  carried out a full inspection on the vessel prior to issue of the letter. 
Has he any knowledge of a letter being issued on any previous occasion. 
-by leave-The House must be shocked at the audacity of the Government in bringing forward such a proposal at this time. It is not much more than two years ago that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Ministers were making repeated accusations about the cost of overseas travel by charter aircraft by the then Prime Minister. The Prime Minister of today made it clear to this House, to the public of Australia, and to anyone who would listen that he would use what he called the open cheaper method of commercial transport. I did not agree with that proposition then, and I do not agree with it now. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has been sent into the House on a mission for the Prime Minister. This is not a defence matter in the proper sense of the word. It is a matter of government policy whereby the Department of Defence operates a fleet of aircraft on behalf of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, with ministerial control resting with the Minister. The audacity of the Prime Minister in this case is shown by the very reasons that have been given for the purchase of two Boeing 727 aircraft, an aircraft which does not fit into the general pattern and structure of the No. 34 Squadron or the maintenance capacity of the Royal Australian Air Force in general. The Air Force has no Boeing aircraft, but it does have available to it aircraft of other makes that may provide suitable alternatives. It is an aircraft which is to be purchased exclusively for use in overseas travel by Ministers, but one has to say that it will almost exclusively be for the use of the Prime Minister. 
I doubt that many Ministers would have the muscle to be able to use such an aircraft, other than in group travel. The cost of the purchase of these aircraft is not able to be assessed but, with the necessary examinations and other arrangements which have to be entered into and with the fittings and equipment which have to be installed in order to maintain and fly these aircraft because the facilities required are not in keeping with other facilities in the Royal Australian Air Force, it has to be in the $20m to $40m bracket. One day after a substantial proportion of the work force in the Australian motor industry, for example, has been told that its jobs are on the line and only a few weeks after another Minister has conducted a purge on people receiving $49 a week in unemployment benefits- a purge in which half of them were denied income for four weeks and denied compensation when they were reinstated- the Government suddenly finds that it has $20m to $40m to purchase two aircraft for a Prime Minister to travel overseas, when that Prime Minister said that it was improper and a waste of public funds for a former Prime Minister to use charter aircraft for which the government of the day had financial responsibility only for the short time that it was in use. It would take a lot of overseas travel to justify the purchase of two aircraft- not one aircraft but two aircraft- to convey the Prime Minister outside Australia. We are not able to compare the cost of his cheaper commercial travel, which he stressed greatly in his earlier days in office before he suddenly found that political gimmickry was not as important as his own personal comfort, with the cost of charter travel by the former Prime Minister because the cost of that travel was the total cost, including departmental officers and others. 
-For the information of the honourable member for Bendigo, I point out that only two days ago the Department of Productivity incurred the cost of bringing an aircraft to Canberra in order to give a ride to a friend of the Prime Minister. It was intended to take the aircraft to his home. I would be interested to see whether that Department actually sells an aircraft. 
I return to the subject matter of the statement of the Minister for Defence. The costs of charter travel by the former Prime Minister were available to this House and were subject to criticism. The costs of overseas travel presented to this House by the present Prime Minister and by some of his Ministers could not be described in any other way than as a misstatement of actual costs of overseas travel. We were provided with information in answer to a question which indicated that one of the Prime Minister's trips overseas cost $845. 1 would love to find the formula by which that can be done. We were informed also that a six-day overseas trip by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  had cost $62. 1 would like to find out how that can be done too. The Government is refusing to disclose the actual costs of the Prime Minister's overseas travel by allocating the expenses involved to various departments, and the Ministers concerned refuse to answer questions which are placed on the Notice Paper and which are relevant to those departments and those costs. So we have the Prime Minister saying repeatedly that charter travel by a former Prime Minister cost X number of dollars and that it was an extravagant waste of money but refusing to allow to be examined the cost of his own overseas travel which in many cases has been greater. For the benefit of honourable members opposite, I inform them that on one occasion the Prime Minister had the airport at Singapore tied up completely for two hours because of a security problem on a commercial aircraft on which he was to travel. That was to the total inconvenience of the other passengers. 
What I am saying is that we have a double standard government which has suddenly decided that having taken all the profit it can find out of abusing a system that it now finds to be acceptable, it will not purchase an aircraft or charter aircraft but will in fact purchase two aircraft for the Prime Minister's private use and overseas travel. It would be interesting to know exactly what level of usage is involved, what the cost is and what the alternative cost of using charter aircraft might be. I would suggest that charter aircraft would be readily available. We do not know the cost of the Prime Minister's travel by commercial aircraft. Ministers have refused to disclose that and the Parliament has been denied those figures. The Government wishes to cover them up. The cost to the Press corps which accompanies the Prime Minister on his overseas travel by utilising commercial aircraft rather than travelling as they did previously, and most likely some of them will in the future and that might be the reason for the second aircraft, on charter flights on a paytheirway basis, was nearly doubled in some instances, especially for TV crews where they were required to use commercial aircraft. That was occasioned merely through gimmickry. That is all it was. 
-The Government is buying these aircraft because the Prime Minister's personal comfort has been disturbed and the Government is now of the view that it has wrung every drop of political advantage out of its previous stance, which the honourable member now admits was a dishonest stance. I should like to raise a matter that is not set out in the paper but I would hope that the Minister for Defence can advise me. Who will pay for these aircraft? Is it an appropriation taken from the capital expenditure of defence or will it be a special appropriation made by the Treasury for this specific purpose? 
I am at least glad about that. That means that another 25 departments will be looking at their budgetary arrangements to see which one of them will lose between $20m and $40m. The Government has already committed itself to no increase in expenditure from its budgetary arrangements. The Government is being quite dishonest with the House in relation to this matter. The Prime Minister is showing his opportunist nature and the manner in which he is willing to manipulate the truth and the manner in which government services are conducted or ought to be conducted in order to achieve his own political advantage. Government supporters will have to answer why they carried out a campaign of vilification against a former Prime Minister for the manner of travel he used on the advice of security officers. They will have to answer why they have been consistently denying the Parliament details of the cost of the Prime Minister's overseas travel during the past two years. So far the Government has supplied figures such as $62 for an overseas trip. One could not do it for that in a row boat and certainly the Prime Minister does not travel in a row boat. The VIP fleet is to be expanded by two aircraft. I ask Government supporters and the Parliament what extra usage will be made of the VIP fleet to justify four major jet aircraft each capable of carrying 30 or more passengers? Who will use them? 
-There are 26 Ministers and only one Leader of the Opposition. I think the Deputy Leader of the Opposition also has some access to them. 
He will use them as required. I ask what the extra usage will be that will justify the purchase of two extra aircraft each with a seating capacity even in VIP configuration of something between 40 and 50 people, or the Prime Minister? 
-by leave-The Opposition does not oppose the setting up of a committee to consider all the ramifications of the provision of Service housing, although we suggest that such a committee would serve a longer term purpose if it were a committee other than an interdepartmental committee- for example, a committee outside the departmental structure. This is not a simple problem and most likely is least of all a matter of economics. Servicemen are regularly transferred- far more regularly than people from most sectors of the community. The disruption caused presents a serious problem in these circumstances. In spending relatively short periods at a station it is important that families be established quickly in new locations and that they be established permanently. The problems faced by a serviceman's wife or husband, whichever the case might be, in re-establishing a home on numerous occasions during a lifetime in the Services are disruptive and can cause very serious tensions apart from the purely logistic problems with which the Services are confronted. 
Obviously, in some areas there is no alternative to providing adequate stocks of Service housing. In some other areas private housing could, at a cost, provide some of the accommodation which is needed. I would like to see that prospect examined in fairly great detail outside the departmental structure. I think the departments are more likely to have vested interests or prior commitments to existing arrangements, changes to which could be disruptive to their own operations, than would an inquiry which was held outside the departmental structure. Another area which must be looked at is the effect of any change in the Service housing structure on the communities into which servicemen move. Any significant shift from supplied accommodation to private accommodation, especially subsidised private accommodation, can have an effect on rental and housing values in an area which is to the disadvantage of the community concerned. I understand that this happened some years ago at Ipswich when a sudden influx of servicemen into the community forced up rental and housing values to levels which were to the disadvantage of the local community. As I said earlier, it is a very complex problem and one into which I would hope the Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  might consider having an independent inquiry. 
I do not want to comment on the report. I have read the recommendations contained in it. Some of them are quite radical and I think it most likely that they could not be accepted in practice. Some of them seem to have an economic rationale which would be attractive to any government. But it is a more complex problem than economics and pure expenditure. There are people and families involved, families which have a minimal chance to lead the normal life that another family would lead and which, therefore, need to be in a position where housing is readily available. It is not unusual in a number of areas of government service for persons who should be or who are seeking promotion to have a period where they remain static in the interests of their families purely because they are not prepared at the time their families are growing up to undertake the necessary moves around the country. This statement sets up an inquiry. I hope that the Minister will examine the possibility of extending that inquiry a little more broadly and having it conducted outside the Public Service system. I am not being critical of the capacity of the Public Service to carry out its function but I do think that it has vested interests and that it is probable that the application of a person fresh to an inquiry, who can hear evidence from the various sections involved, would have a better result. 
I want to make one other point. The accommodation for single servicemen ought also to be examined. At the moment in some of our Service bases in Australia the accommodation for single servicemen is certainly not in tune with what would be acceptable in the 1970s. I instance some of the facilities at Fairbairn in Canberra, which we have recently been debating. Single servicemen in some accommodation there do not even have ablution and other facilities available to them in the buildings in which they sleep. That is not a satisfactory situation in the 1970s. It is a situation which was probably acceptable 100 years ago but I do not think it would be considered acceptable now to have a set of living circumstances where servicemen have to leave the building in which they sleep and go somewhere else in order to wash their hands or to do the other things that they might wish to do in the middle of the night, especially under some circumstances. In this town I would think that would be a painful experience on some occasions. 
There are a number of problems concerned with Service housing. There are also problems related to Defence Service home loans. I note in the statement that 10,000 married personnel are, in fact, accommodated in private homes. The availability of Defence Service loans has a bearing on the amount of housing that is required for the Defence Forces, especially by servicemen who feel that they are likely to be permanently stationed in one place or intend to retire to a specific area at the end of their period of service. At the moment those loans do not meet the financing requirements of home purchase and the delays are more than excessive, with the result that home values are being seriously undermined. 
-I am certain that it does but I am raising the fact that this matter is related to this inquiry. I do not intend to expand that. 
-The Committee was considering another matter but this is a related matter because the amount of housing that is provided by that system has a direct bearing on the amount of housing required under the other system. Therefore, if adequate Defence Service loans were available, the demand for Defence provided homes would be reduced by that amount. The Opposition does not oppose the setting up of the inquiry but it believes that it ought to be far broader and take into account issues which were not necessarily considered by the Standing Committee on Expenditure and, therefore, are not included in the Committee's recommendations. 
-The Opposition does not dispute the security angle on this matter, and it never has. In fact, the justification for the manner of operation of the former Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, as indicated in my earlier speech, was the security angle. However, I suggest that there are at least two methods of providing satisfactory aircraft travel overseas. I would never have suggested that the use of commercial airlines was a satisfactory arrangement. I think that when in opposition members of the present Government exploited that fact- to their detriment for the last two years. The point I make is that the cost of the purchase of two aircraft additional to the existing fleet which have very little other function is too great an expenditure under existing circumstances to be justified and it has not been justified by the statement. Charter aircraft could most likely be used for the travel of Prime Ministers, without taking into account any kind of operating costs, for the next 10 years at least when we take into account the cost of the purchase of these aircraft. I make that point without taking into consideration the maintenance or operating costs. The security angle is not in dispute. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Has he received correspondence from the Australian Automobile Dealers Association claiming disadvantage to their members arising from stock valuation procedures. 
If so, is there any substance in these complaints. 
Will the Government take action to correct any disadvantage. 
Do similar disadvantages exist for other sections of the retail trade. 
I want to make only one or two remarks on this matter. If tax evasion is to be contained in any way it is necessary that the Commissioner of" Taxation have some discretionary powers. The problems that have arisen and have brought about the difficulties of the Government and the former Government with regard to Curran schemes have been because the Commissioner's discretions were removed almost totally by court decisions. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  would be as aware as anyone else of the almost total impossibility of drafting legislation in such a form that interpretation of that legislation or changes in the usage of that legislation will not render inoperative the intent of the Parliament in establishing that legislation. I am also concerned with the manner in which attempts are being made to ensure the profitable continuation of the tax evasion industry. It is to me a serious question at which this Parliament has to look. I think the Parliament ought to take such steps as are necessary to make it the taking of a serious risk to enter into tax evasion schemes whether they be within the letter of the law or not. The Government ought to be seen to be consistent. At a time when it has rejected a proposition on the motion for the second reading of the Bill relating to the dates from which these schemes would apply, the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in another place is announcing that she will be studying the incomes of pensioners for the last 12 months to see what impositions can be made on their incomes of $49 a week in order, I presume, to recoup to the Government some of the $500m-odd that it could have lost and some of the money that it will have lost from tax evasion schemes which will date only from the time that the Government finds them so big that they become embarrassing, not from the start of the financial year. 
-One of the things that the Committee ought to take into consideration is that the amendment which the Opposition would have moved is not before the Committee because it would have advantaged the Treasury by increasing the amount of taxation levied, even if only marginally. The amendment which is before the Committee seeks to take away retrospectivity in respect of Curran schemes. The difference between the approach of the Opposition and the Government to this matter is that the Government has clearly indicated that in legislation designed to overcome tax avoidance it is prepared to prevent a continuation of a tax avoidance process only if that tax avoidance process becomes significant enough in terms of revenue lost to be of concern to the Commissioner of Taxation. Therefore, if a tax avoidance scheme is not expanded by the tax avoidance experts to the extent where it becomes noticeable, no announcement will be made by the Treasurer because action on it would not be recommended to him and the tax avoidance will be allowed to continue. 
The proposition which the Opposition put in the second reading debate and which it would have moved by way of amendment to this clause in Committee if it had been able was that warning should be given to those people in the tax avoidance industry that tax avoidance schemes entered into in the judgment of the Taxation Commissioner for the purpose of not paying tax which properly should have been paid would be subject to legislation, if legislation were enacted in respect of those schemes, for the whole of the financial year in which the legislation was passed. That would not constitute retrospective legislation. It would constitute a warning to those people who are employing their talents in tax avoidance, and most likely diverting some of the best brains in Australia from productive to negative activities, that there is no safe haven. At the moment there is a guaranteed safe haven written into the legislation and it will be continued under this legislation because the legislation provides that until such time as an announcement is made people can proceed with any tax avoidance scheme they may be able to devise. 
Honourable members on the Government side have made a number of remarks about what an Australian Labor Party Government would or would not do but they are quite prepared to sit by silent whilst the aged people in the community are being pursued upon the direction of a Minister last Friday, in respect of income which may be 12 months old but in respect of which inquiries have not been undertaken because the Department was short of staff. 
-Senator Guilfoyle, the Minister for Social Security, on Friday. It is a parallel case. The Government is pursuing pensioners for a few dollars and will send them retrospective taxation bills because these people may not have understood what was required of them or may have made mistakes in their taxation returns. 
-I thank you for your ruling,  Mr Chairman.  If the honourable member had been able to understand he would have seen that I was making a parallel of that case to demonstrate the different standards which honourable members who have spoken in this debate have adopted. For a few dollars of pensioners' money the Government is pursuing and is seriously jeopardising the standards of living of those people whereas millions of dollars lost to revenue through tax avoidance is a matter of principle. It is a matter of principle that people should be able to withhold ' that money. They entered into schemes knowing full well that the schemes were for tax avoidance purposes and that if taxation were levied on that money for the full financial year they would suffer no real loss. Perhaps the Committee will take that into consideration. They would be entitled to claim the legitimate costs of their transactions as a business deduction. They would be denied only the fictitious costs, that is, those which never existed, which they disclose as a loss for taxation purposes. They therefore profit from a law which is obviously improper and from a scheme into which they entered in order to defraud the Commonwealth legally or otherwise of revenues to which it was entitled under the law. They will not be denied taxation concessions in respect of any operation in which expenses were incurred. It is the fictitious expenses, those which do not exist, which are in question and it is schemes which were entered into as a taxation dodge which are to be outlawed, not schemes in respect of which expenses were actually incurred. Many of the people concerned will have entered into those schemes in the full expectation that the Government would take action. They would not be involved in any loss. The loss, said to be between $500m and $ 1,000m- not an insignificant amount- would be to Commonwealth revenues. 
That may or may not be nonsense, but certainly the privileged people in our community are not entitled to that benefit, while this Government pursues people on a maximum income of $49 a week for one or two dollars that it wants to collect because these people may have put in incorrect income returns or, in ignorance, may not have assessed or set out their incomes correctly. There will be more government employees chasing those one or two dollars than there are tax dodgers- let us make no mistake about that. Those are the standards that exist. 
The Opposition regrets that it cannot move an amendment which would place at total risk tax avoidance schemes for all time and thereby discourage those who would devise them. It would save the Treasury millions of dollars; it would return equity to taxation and it would have the effect of diverting skilled persons into the productive areas within our community. It might even help our economy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 12 April 1978: 
Has he received representations from the Victorian Citizens Military Forces Association seeking to have changes made to the form of awards made to members of the Australian Defence Reserve Forces. 
Has he examined the requests contained in a petition presented by me on 4 April 1978  (Hansard,  page 899) and by other members seeking restoration of imperial awards to replace the National Medal. 
Is it a fact that the National Medal is inappropriate and inferior, and unsuitable for awards to reserve personnel in recognition of service. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 12 April 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a number of reports from prominent persons advocating the re-introduction of national service as a solution to unemployment and claiming that this would increase the strength of the armed services. 
If so, would such a course increase the efficiency and capacity of the Defence Forces. 
3 ) Would the transfer of funds to training of national service personnel reduce defence capacity. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 12 April 1 978: 
What are the requirements for the award of the National Medal to members of (a) the permanent defence forces (b) ancillary services and (c) the reserve defence forces. 
Is it a fact that prior to the introduction of the National Medal members of the permanent and reserve defence forces were eligible for separate and distinct long service and good conduct awards. 
Is there a conflict in that the use of the same decoration for both permanent and volunteer services might not be appropriate. 
If so, will consideration be given to introducing an appropriate Australian decoration for members of the reserve defence forces. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 14 March 1978- 
1 ) Did the Government statement of 24 January 1 978 say that a committee of permanent heads would examine and report on all aspects of coastal surveillance within one month. 
On what dates has the committee met. 
Is it a fact that no meeting of the committee had taken place prior to 9 March 1978. 
Has a committee of departmental officers considered and prepared recommendations for the permanent heads committee. 

 -Mr Speaker, with your indulgence, I ask you whether you are in a position to make a statement or to provide information to members of the House relating to accommodation within Parliament House. I raise this matter especially in view of Press and news reports today in which it is suggested that Cabinet has in fact issued directions to  Mr President  and to you relating to this matter, something which I hope is incorrect. 
-I will delay the House for about only one minute. I want to raise with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  a matter that has been before him for some considerable time; namely an application by a Geelong group for commercial FM operations. The group has asked for a test licence in order to carry out tests on FM broadcasting in that area. It has received a number of replies, all of which tend to refer to the situation of the eventual issue of permanent licences. I think the Minister will remember that prior to the introduction of television considerable test broadcasts were carried out in order to test equipment and for other purposes. What is required in this case is permission to conduct tests in order to see whether there is a future for that type of broadcasting operation in the area. To go into a permanent licence situation under these circumstances would appear to be too big a step. Is the Minister in a position to indicate whether such applications for test licences are considered and will he consider the application to which I have referred? 
-I want to speak briefly to these Bills. I do not wish to follow the Une taken by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates).  At present, there are serious problems in the field of tertiary, secondary and technical education. These problems are not being assisted by the politicising of the situation. In Victoria, which is the State from which the honourable member for Holt comes and from which all honourable members who have spoken in this debate and all honourable members who are listed to speak in this debate come, a very serious problem exists which I think is the result of a flow-on from what I consider to be political decisions by the Victorian Government with regard to degree conferring institutions. Victoria has about half the degree conferring institutions in Australia. It certainly has a number of institutionsI do not wish to name any of them- whose future viability must be in serious doubt. This has led to a high degree of political activity in recent months. Unfortunately, even the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has entered into this issue on behalf of the Warrnambool institute. Institutions are trying to tear each other down in order to bring about their own survival. 
If legislation which was introduced recently in the Victorian Parliament, and which was not considered to be legislation on an education basis as it had nothing to do with the report from which it arose, becomes law- I feel that it will not become law because more rational second thoughts will take place or have taken place- it would place that State in the position in which it could censure and override decisions of the councils of universities and colleges of advanced education on educational and staffing matters directly relevant to their academic functions rather than their financial or other commitments. It would also place them in a position in which they would not be able to make direct application to the Commonwealth organisations responsible for education without first obtaining the approval of a Victorian body which was to be set up. 
The basis of this move was again for political decision-making purposes, not for decisionmaking on the basis of education content. It was in fact designed to ensure that applications met political needs rather than the education needs of the State. That is a serious matter. Serious problems exist within the tertiary education system in Victoria. Those problems will be solved only if rational debate takes place on them and only if they are tackled as educational problems, not political problems. I believe it would be better for Victoria and the educational institutions concerned if the inquiries which were to deal with the matter were to be extra-curricula rather than internal to that State because there are pressures in the State which will totally prevent any real appraisal taking place. 
I want to raise one other matter which I believe is important. In 1975, following the presentation of a report and agreement with being obtained of the Victorian Government, which passed the necessary legislation, this Parliament established in Geelong the Deakin University, which is mainly in the electorate of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  although some parts of it are in my electorate as the capital required for the actual building of the necessary structures has not been made available because of changes in government policy and changes in patterns. In fact, the Deakin, Murdoch and Griffith universities and, I think, one other of the newer universities have had their development cut off at the socks. Because of their development situation they have not been given any additional funds over and above those which were made to the existing universities for expansion. Now their situations are totally different. They are new institutions which require certain basic buildings and structures which already exist in other institutions. 
Deakin University is located in various parts of Geelong from Waurn Ponds, which is 7 to 9 miles to the south, to North Geelong which is about 5 miles to the north of Geelong. Courses are taken at different locations during periods of the same day without any form of transport being available for students. It is extremely difficult to travel from one place to another without any form of transport, public or otherwise. In fact, students use hitch hiking posts which are sometimes successful and sometimes not. There are specific problems. I make these points today because the Deakin University is to be officially opened tomorrow. That is an important step even though some people in Victoria were asking that it be closed yesterday. 
The conditions under which young people attend tertiary institutions, especially when they are undertaking vocational courses, should be reexamined. It is possible under the existing arrangements for young persons to be placed in an extremely difficult position because they do not live in the metropolitan area in close proximity to an institution. They may have to travel long distances. They do not necessarily have to live outside the capital city to travel long distances. If they lived in Dandenong, in the electorate of the honourable member for Holt, and they were attending an institution in the centre or to the north or west of the city where the course they wished to study was available- of course, there is a rationalisation of courses- they could be involved in much greater expense and more difficulty than other students who are in exactly the same position financially and in other respects. I make that point because the conditions under which tertiary allowances are made available- that is not the subject of this Bill- are too bland. They do not take into consideration different circumstances. They certainly do not take into consideration the circumstances in which some students find themselves. 
It is unfortunate that the present problems which are besetting Victoria especially have reached the stage they have. It is even more unfortunate that local political representatives who may feel impelled to do so but who most likely are aggravating rather than assisting the situation, have turned what was a mistake and what is now almost a disaster area for some of the institutions into a political dogfight rather than an educational problem. 
-The Minister for Defence will be aware that on Monday of this week a question was asked of the Leader of the Government in the Senate relating to a United States of America communications satellite installation, and that on that occasion the Minister gave an incorrect answer which he corrected the following day. In the corrected statement, which was a considered statement from the Minister for Defence, the Minister indicated that the station concerned was a replacement for a station closed in 1973 and had in fact been constructed in 1977. 1 ask the Minister. Is that information correct or in fact is the station concerned a station which is propsed to be constructed in approximately 18 months time as part of a 2 5 -station project for the Pentagon's world command system? Have the contracts for this construction been let for 18 months? If that information is correct, why has the Government indicated that the station was already constructed when in fact it is a proposed station, not yet constructed, for an entirely different purpose? 
I wish to talk about a matter which is closely related, but not directly related to that which has been raised by the honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite),  that is, the manner in which the surveillance of Australia's coastline and resources zones is to be undertaken and the position of the defence forces in that undertaking. I am concerned- I have expressed this concern in this House on a previous occasion- about the continual statements of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  in which he has made it quite clear that he is seeking to remove surveillance of the nature mentioned by the honourable member for Dawson, that is, coastal surveillance of territorial integrity, from the function of the Defence Force, despite the fact that in the Government's White Paper on defence that function is clearly set out in a number of places as being an accepted function of the Defence Force. My concern is that the defence forces, through the professional advisers to the Minister, are seeking to protect their budgetary arrangements by the device of shedding what could become a growing encumbrance on their funds unless other financial arrangements are made. It is a serious situation and one which I think is regrettable. 
On 24 January of this year, the Government announced that it was setting up a committee of permanent heads to examine and make recommendations on the means of increasing the level of Australia's coastal surveillance. It was implied in that statement that the Government considered that a greater degree of coastal surveillance was required and that the Government would fund the necessary increases. If that was not meant, such an explanation should have been included in the statement. The fact that the defence planners feel it necessary to oppose this proposition because they see it as a threat to the funds available to them for what they see as proper defence functions indicates the necessity for the Government not only to make a decision but also to make clear the funding arrangements and the sources of those funds. 
There has been considerable discussion about this matter and a number of proposals concerning it have been put forward. I understand that at least one which is under consideration by the Government- a news sheet which circulates in Canberra has said that the decision has already been made in this regard, but I should hope that that is not true- suggests the setting up of an independent coastguard. There are arrangements already for co-operation between departments, under the chairmanship of the Department of Transport, for the collection and collation of information on civil surveillance matters and the use of that information. Certainly no one could suggest that the defence forces would be carrying out civilian police roles in this area. That is a matter which could be fairly simply disposed of by administrative arrangements. I think it important that that not be the criterion. 
The setting up of a separate coastguard service is an attractive but certainly a misinterpreted proposal, if we were to set up a separate coastguard operation in Australia to provide separate surveillance for what are basically civilian roles, although I should have thought not, a fairly substantial organisation would have to be set up. It would have to be a much more substantial organisation than most people tend to think. The United States coastguard regularly appears in various forms on our television screens, but most people do not realise the extent of that organisation. The United States coastguard has a strength of some 35,000 men. It has a number of small ships and large ships, far in excess of the total number of Australian Defence Force ships. The United States coastguard has substantial numbers of aircraft and helicopters and a substantial quantity of other specialised equipment. That coastguard would not be comparable, even though the United States and Australian coastlines are, with any force that may be envisaged as a separate operation in Australia. 
It should also be pointed out that if the Defence Force, which has the technical capacity in communications and logistics command arrangements, does not undertake the actual physical surveillance tasks, new arrangements will have to be implemented. New command authorities, new lines of command and a totally new bureaucracy will have to be established in order to carry out a function which is being carried out at the moment substantially by the Defence Force although without the necessary equipment or funding. We cannot, as was suggested by the Minister in answer to a question, wait for or depend on the development of over-the-horizon radar. We certainly cannot seek to expand the highly technical military surveillance equipment which is in fact purchased for and should be utilised mainly for military purposes. Thus additional equipment will be required and obviously, additional funding will be required. I suggest to the House that in either the short term or long term it would be cheaper to fund a special unit of the Services to carry out this function. It would also be more efficient from a national point of view, remembering that our budget availability for any given purpose is restricted and is certainly not comparable with that of the United States, to which a lot of the suggestion about a coastguard allude. 
I repeat that I am concerned that practical discussion about how this function can be carried out does not appear to be taking place, certainly not at the defence level. I should have thought that in any budgetary discussions where funding for defence was going to be a serious problem if a low threat situation were to continue over a period of years an actual functional operation would be of assistance to the budgetary claims of the Department of Defence. I think it is bad politics for the Department of Defence to be seen to be shedding a role which most Australians, especially those in northern Australia, see as one of its functions and as a responsibility which ought to be undertaken. Recently  Mr 
Everingham, who is the Majority Leader in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, made the point that northern Australians are part of Australia and, as such, are entitled to expect that they would be defended by the Australian Defence Force. This statement was repudiated by the Minister for Defence. But I think it sets out the concern of people in northern Australia, who feel that they are the ones who are at risk and that they are the ones who are vulnerable. 
If the Government opts for a separate coastguard, within a few years we will have the situation where a quasi-Service organisation which has access to publicity on the grounds of what it is doing on a regular basis will be seeking to expand. That, I am sure everyone accepts, is a certainty. That organisation will be seeking to expand on the basis that it has functions to perform, functions which must be performed and functions which the Australian people consider they are entitled to expect to be performed. The pressure on budgets will be back on the Department of Defence because it will not be one of its functions: It will be a function which will be competing with its military surveillance operations. I think it politically unwise of the Minister for Defence and of his advisers to seek to have the Department opt out of this role. It would be nationally unwise for the Government to come to a conclusion whereby another force seeking to use funds and establish a second bureaucracy in an almost parallel field would be formed. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 12 April 1978: 
1 ) Did he state following the appointment of the honourable member for Petrie as  Deputy  Liberal Party Whip in the House of Representatives that the member for Fadden had not been dismissed, but rather had not been re-appointed to that position for the Thirty-first Parliament. 
If so, will he ascertain to whom the salary for  Deputy  Liberal Party Whip was paid in the period of the 3 1st Parliament prior to the appointment of the honourable Member for Petrie. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
What is the authorised staff establishment of the Office of National Assessments. 
-Did the Minister for Defence state on 16 May that the Government had taken the position that no statement officially commenting on the United States plans should be issued pending confirmation by the United States authorities of the Government's existing understanding of those plans and their implications? When was the decision taken that no comments would be made? When was the Government's required information received from the United States Government and if, as indicated by the Secretary of the Department of Defence, the information was not available in the policy areas of that Department as late as 1 1 May, when was that information considered by the policy committees within the Department of Defence and when were their findings conveyed to the Minister? Has the Minister indicated that approval for the station in principle has been given to the United States authorities? 
I note that there is reference in Supply Bill (No. 1 ) 1 978-79 to commercial vehicles. Tonight, I want to raise with the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  the growing concern and uncertainty about the future of the Australian motor industry. It is one of Australia's major employers. It is also like the textile industry in that it is peculiarly regional in effect. There are two or three major regions which are very vulnerable to any changes in circumstances. I am aware that figures released this month show an upward trend in motor vehicle registrations. 
The short term problem clearly is lack of sales rather than competition from outside Australia. The lack of sales can probably be associated with the high cost of replacement vehicles. There are delays in the purchase of changeover vehicles. The very high cost of hire purchase, operating costs and the accelerating price of motor vehicles are relevant factors. The Government has to review the existing arrangements in the industry. It has to decide whether the market for Australian vehicles, which has not grown for six years now, can afford additional expansion in the capacity of the Australian industry. The imposition of higher tariffs on imported vehicles will not solve the situation. 
As I mentioned earlier, the cost of vehicles is now one of the main factors against a recovery in the market. The changeover cost of vehicles, say, four years old is about 100 per cent of the original purchase price of the vehicle. Obviously that is a serious deterent. The Australian design and tooling sections, the skilled sections of the industry are in serious decline. In the commercial vehicle field, assembly has become the main area of activity. It looks as though the motor vehicle industry will degenerate into an assembly industry in the next five years, with Australian companies being dependent on imported designs and possibly imported tooling. I do not think the Government can take rational action which will prevent that type of technology from being imported. Therefore the solution in the Australian scene would seem to be some sort of internal support to the tooling and design areas. I understand that Australia is one of the few countries manufacturing motor vehicles which does not give internal support to tooling and design and that type of processing. 
These are important technical areas in the industry which have been neglected in the past and which have tended to be protected by the types of vehicle plans which have been adopted. Unfortunately, those plans have had built into them, ever since their original inception a number of years ago, the seeds of the destruction of the industry. All the major manufacturers in Australia are moving towards the adoption of world designs, world cars. If something is not done to encourage the utilisation of Australian skills in this area, the capacity in Australia to do these things will disappear and therefore there will be no jobs for our trained personnel who are among the world's most competent. There will be no employment for them and therefore we will have lost a major segment of an industry in which skills are important. 
I raise the question because I believe that the Government must at this stage be very concerned about the industry and must look at means by which it can take rational action which will protect the Australian content of the industry without substantially altering the present tariff arrangements. As I say, that is not an option which is open to the Government. There are means by which design and tooling processes can be assisted, namely, by means of taxation and other things. Such assistance would pay off handsomely to the Government in the longer term. It is an important industry. It is a highly regional industry and, at the moment, it is highly competitive between regions. If one manufacturer goes to the wall, then the jobs in one region disappear. It is a serious problem. 
That is fair enough. I raise the matter because it is important to as many as 90,000 Australians whose jobs are in jeopardy. I think the Minister ought to take cognisance of my remarks. I do not know exactly what honourable members opposite are complaining about, but in my electorate there are 6,000 people whose incomes depend on this industry. I happen to think it is an important one. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-I ask the Minister for Defence: Did the Secretary of his Department indicate in an interview that policy areas of his Department were not aware as late as 1 1 May of proposals to change communications equipment at North West Cape? Is it a fact, as reported, that Air Vice-Marshal Jordan, one of the most senior military officers in the Department, was aware of these proposals and had had discussions on them in the United States? Does the Minister agree with the statement made by his Secretary, which clearly implies that senior military officers are not part of the policy formulation sections of his Department? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether Malaysia has reached the stage of self-reliance in the provision of defence aircraft at which the Australian Government stated that the RAAF Mirages would be withdrawn from Butterworth Air Base. 
If so, what is the reason for the retention of these aircraft in Malaysia. 
Is he satisfied that the security arrangements at Butterworth for the protection of RAAF aircraft against terrorists are adequate. 
-The Minister for Defence will recall saying yesterday that Air ViceMarshal Jordan received a briefing last year in the United States about United States intentions at North West Cape but that he did not properly communicate the policy implications of that briefing to his Department. Was another member of that mission present, a  Mr Mathens,  Assistant Director, Science and Technology, Joint Intelligence Organisation? Did he communicate the policy aspects of that briefing to the appropriate areas of the Department of Defence? Was another member, a  Mr Pritchett,  First Assistant Secretary, Strategic and International Policy Division, and now head of the Policy Co-ordination Division, also present? Did he convey the policy implications of that briefing to the appropriate areas of his Department and was that information conveyed to the Minister? 
-I raise this matter with your indulgence,  Mr Speaker.  Will you inform the House whether any further developments have taken place relating to the announced Cabinet decision on accommodation within this building and arrangements for changes in the accommodation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
How many recipients of social security benefits had benefits cancelled as a result of the recent campaign by the Department of Social Security in February and March 1 978. 
How many persons were successful in appeals against the cancellation of benefits. 
What was the average period during which persons whose benefits were found to be improperly suspended were without benefit payments. 
What means were available to these persons to meet costs associated with normal living during the period when the Government was arbitrarily withholding benefit payments. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
1 ) Is Australia a party to any international agreements on hijacking and piracy. 
Are there any circumstances under which the Government considers hijackings and acts of piracy to be justifiable. 
Do any agreements on hijacking and piracy to which Australia is a party provide exemptions whereby these acts might not be considered criminal or illegal. 
Has the Australian Government had brought to its attention any acts referred to in pan (3); if so, what action was taken by the Government. 
I move: 
That the Minister for Defence no longer possesses the confidence of the House for his failure to maintain proper ministerial authority of the Department of Defence. 
The motion that I have moved is one of the most important and serious that can be moved in respect of any Minister. I do so in all seriousness because I believe it has been amply demonstrated in the last three weeks that the Department of Defence is completely without ministerial authority, does not answer to the Parliament, does not answer to the Minister and fails to deal adequately with any policy matters which properly should be the responsibility of the elected Government and the Parliament of the country. The American plans for new facilities at the North West Cape communications base were made public in the United States 7 months ago. In spite of that the Australian Government was unaware of those intentions until 3 weeks ago when the matter was raised by the Opposition in the Senate. Fifteen months ago, according to information given to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  last week, the matter clearly had become one involving policy considerations. Yet the Minister for Defence had no knowledge whatsoever of the matter only three weeks ago. 
Consultations between the United States and the Department of Defence had begun in 1972. Six years later the matter was still concealed within the Department- too sensitive an issue, too secret a matter to be passed on to the Government and the Minister. Clearly the Department of Defence believed in doing nothing which would tamper with the state of ignorance shared by the Government and the Minister. In the Senate the Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  who apparently makes something of a profession of giving misleading answers to questions, made three attempts in two days to answer the first question on this issue put by  Senator Button.  Confusion did not reign; it poured. First, on 8 May 1978 he had no brief on the subject even though it had been published that morning. Perhaps the Department hoped the issue would not surface or, if it did, would sink quietly, quickly and scarcely noticed. It had not bothered to inform the Prime Minister's office and the Minister for Defence had not bothered to acquaint himself with the background of such a potentially controversial matter reported that morning for the first time in Australia in the  Australian Financial Review. 
Later that day  Senator Withers  rushed back into the fray to report that the  Financial Review  really referred to a solar observatory at Learmonth and implied that the newspaper story was a concoction of journalistic ignorance and malicious invention. In the sober light of next morning  Senator Withers  was more circumspect and contrite. He confessed that the brief had been wrong. He disclosed that the  Australian Financial Review  report referred to a satellite terminal which had been obsolete in 1973 and for which a terminal of the same type was again installed in 1977. Again he was wrong. He was still floundering two days later when he evasively acknowledged that there was much more to the matter than he had so far disclosed or, even more importantly, been aware of. He observed that the improved replacement satellite terminal was under construction in the United States- for 1980-81 but that the matter was yet to reach the level of formal contact on a governmenttogovernment basis. He did not acknowledge that there had been consultations over six years between representative of the United States and the Australian governments. The Minister was not aware of this basic fact; neither was the Defence Minister whom he was representing; nor was the Prime Minister's office which was briefing him; nor the Cabinet; nor the Ministry. Not one person in the Government of this nation knew what the Department of Defence knew. In fact the consultations moved into a policy area 15 months earlier but still the Department kept the information bottled up behind its own ramparts. 
It was incontestable that the Department's conduct was wrong. The Minister for Defence admits, after persistent questioning, that his Department's conduct reflects a 'significant blemish'. Nonsense! The Department behaved improperly and its behaviour was inexcusable. More importantly, it took four days to prize this inadequate explanation out of the Department of Defence. On every one of those four days the Department would have been alert to the fact that this matter had become one of important political concern and was likely to develop further in the event of inadequate information or, worse, misleading advice being supplied to the Parliament. The question to be asked is why did the Department act in this way? Does it consider the Parliament a thicket of fools? 
Furthermore, the Department exposed the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  its own Minister and the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  to humiliation before the Parliament- the humiliation of being uninformed, wrongly informed, partly informed, of being misled and of misleading the people 's Parliament. On the evidence, it is obvious the Department is out of control. We must ask whether there is a conspiracy within the Department to keep the Government in the dark and feed the Parliament mush. 
It is inconceivable that key negotiations, proceeding for Six years, would be unknown to the head of the Department. Obviously, he should have communicated promptly and fully to his Minister the details of the negotiations as soon as the matter became the subject of newspaper reports on 8 May. Instead, it took four days of parliamentary examination before even the semblance of a reliable answer was offered in the Senate. The Minister says, in exoneration of his Department, that 'it becomes a matter of hard judgment as to when there should be a movement of any issue from a strict technical area into a policy area'. The explanations just are not credible. 
The Minster for Defence himself does not emerge with clean hands from this effort to keep the Government and the Parliament in ignorance on an important policy matter. He deserves to sink for pumping up an unwise and unjustified loyalty to his Department at the expense of the credibility of his Government and his responsibility to the Parliament. On 1 1 May He said he had been told 'informally' of the United States intentions at North West Cape. 'Informally' what does that mean? Does it mean that he picked it up "om a reference in a back number of the  Pacific Defence Reporter!  The Minister is not credible, on this matter. This was nothing more that a flimsy cover up. Later, on 25 May, he said: 
. there exists a difference of opinion between the United States Government and the Australian Government as to the procedures it observed. 
Ten days earlier on the national radio program  A.M.  he said of the conduct of the United States Government in this matter:   . . we were not treated with the proper courtesy. 
The United States Ambassador responded by writing to the Defence Minister on 16 May stating: 
. I have watched with increasing dismay as the public discussion . . . unfolded amid charges of United States duplicity and bad faith. 
That was a clear rebuke to the Minister for Defence. We believe the United States has become the scapegoat for a Minister who wants to sidetrack the criticism from where it rightly belongs, namely with him and his Department. He is the responsible Minister; he is accountable for his Department; he is supposed to be in charge of it. It is, however, unfortunate that the United States Ambassador saw fit to buy into this public controversy. The Ambassador, no doubt with helpful purpose, said: 
I fail to see why the replacement of obsolescent equipment should have to escalate to the policy level of formal government-to-government exchanges simply because some journalist has scoured the . . . hundreds of thousands of pages of congressional testimony . . . 
The Minister himself said last week that the matter became a policy matter 15 months before the Ambassador wrote that letter. Contrary to the Ambassador's view, this is not an occasion for berating the Press. The issue is dereliction of duty in public office by the Defence Department and the Defence Minister. 
This brings me to the important point made by the Minister- that technical negotiations precede policy discussions. Consider some strictly hypothetical illustrations, say, the installation of intercontinental ballistic missile launch sites on Australian soil or permanent nuclear submarine facilities as has already been suggested by the Leader of the Opposition in an interview. Surely the Minister does not propose that there would be discussions between the two governments at technical level over several years, or even several months, on such matters? Nobody could believe seriously that it is proper practice for the Department of Defence not to convey to the Minister, at the earliest stage, details of any technical proposals put to them in this way? This is not a simple matter of installing a new satellite terminal as though it were the installation of a new wall socket for a television set. A complete, large, new ground station has to be constructed and fitted out for a major new communications function. 
The Defence Minister brushes this important point off as if it were of no consequence. He is undisturbed by the fact that the contracts for the supply of the equipment to be installed at the new satellite ground station at North West Cape have already been let. He seeks to massage national concern by assuring us that it is not until the time for construction of the ground station building that the matter becomes significant. If it were, in fact, true that another government had advanced such a plan to the contract stage without informing the Minister, one would expect the atmosphere to be seared with the florid expletives which the Minister has said he obtained from his background. If that were the situation the United States Government would have behaved with gross impropriety. But that is not the situation. The fact is that the United States did consult. The Defence Department let the Government and the country down and the Minister is posturing in an attempt to side-track responsibility. The Minister seeks to brush over the dimensions and nature of this new facility as an upgrading' of satellite terminal equipment, again of no great significance. 
Lieutenant-General Lee Paschall, Director of the Defence Communications Agency, in testimony before the American Senate Armed Services Committee, makes nonsense of the Minister's soothing assurances. The new facility will be part of a new DSCS III program which supersedes the DSCS II program. The new DSCS III is vastly different from the program it replaces and carries wide ranging, new and major policy implications. The Minister seems content with the happy state of ignorance that he and his Government have been kept in by his Department. Indeed, he is an apologist for it. He glosses over the failure of the Department to process Air Vice-Marshal Jordan 's written submission on the 
Air Vice-Marshal's discussions with United States Authorities on the matter. 
The Minister's head of Department,  Sir Arthur  Tange, puts the whole question into clear perspective.  Sir Arthur  Tange said, as reported in the Melbourne  Age  on 1 8 May, that the Department decides when it has developed a matter sufficiently to pass it on to the Government. Can one imagine a situation where, after six years of confidential negotiations between government authorities on a sensitive policy matter, the Department still does not feel the Government has a right to know? Who is running this countrythe Government or the Public Service? Who is in charge of the Defence Department- the Minister, the Department head or anyone? The Minister exposed the weak link in the whole set up when he said: 
I would regard it as bordering on impertinence for me to seek to rebuke  Sir Arthur  Tange . . . 
Note the choice of the word 'impertinence', not unjustified', 'unfair' or 'unwarranted'. Is it that the Minister does not have control of his Department because he is thoroughly intimidated by the permanent head of his Department? Is that why he has embarked upon this perplexing course of unjustified and unsustainable defence of gross dereliction of public duty by his Department? Is the fear that his own weaknesses, his own failings, would be exposed if he were to take the other obvious and proper course of firmly and publicly bringing his Department to account? 
The Minister says the United States should have informed the Australian Government once the issue became public in the United Statesthat is, some seven months ago. Is he buckpassing again? Australia maintains about 90 armed Services and Defence Department personnel in Washington. What do they do to justify their stationing there at taxpayers expense? Do not any of them monitor defence developments in the United States Congress, especially when they affect Australia? Instead of abusing journalists for doing the work that should be done by Government staff in Washington- checking relevant congressional testimony and reports- the Government should be thankful that someone does the job for them. Without the efforts of journalists the Government and the public would still be in ignorance on this important policy matter. 
Similar land satellite stations to that proposed for the North West Cape base are to be established elsewhere in the world, for example Augsburg and Landstahl in the Federal Republic of Germany. 
German Government consent was obtained for this development before tenders were let for the acquisition of satellite terminal equipment to be installed there. If the United States proceeded to acquire the equipment for installation at North West Cape without properly seeking Australian Government approval, in the way in which it did seek that approval from the German Government, it has been guilty of a far more serious breach of conduct towards Australia than that described by the Minister for Defence as merely being ' not treated with proper courtesy'. 
It would make a mockery of the 1974 Barnard-Schlesinger agreement covering North West Cape, which those two gentleman described as providing for full and timely information, continuing contact and extending and strengthening of the Australian-United States bilateral consultations. If the Minister is correct in his criticisms of the United States, then a very serious matter has arisen; a grave breach of the undertakings by one party to a major bilateral commitment has occurred. 
The United States rejects that. It rejects the criticism by the Minister for Defence. The United States has made clear that in its view it has maintained proper consultations at the appropriate official level. It implies that the fault lies on the Australian side. All of this represents a thoroughly unsatisfactory set of circumstances. The credibility and reliability of the United States is in grave question by the Minister for Defence. The reputation and confidence of the Department of Defence has been put at stake by the Minister for Defence. 
The propriety and competence of the conduct of the Minister for Defence has been brought under censure, properly, by his own behaviour. Even as recently as 25 May in this House he acknowledged there are still no clear guidelines laid down within the Department to prevent this happening again. All that is required, in the Minister's words, is that officers should be a little more critical. The same people responsible for this farrago of misinformation, deception and ministerial embarrassment are being asked to be good enough not to do it again. These important and disturbing issues must be properly resolved. There must be a full and open inquiry. 
Furthermore, the Minister has demonstrated conclusively that he did not and does not have control of his Department. The Department has, over a long period of time, been able to hide behind excessive secrecy and lack of parliamentary scrutiny on the grounds- quite often improperly- of security considerations. That is not good enough. It is a major department of state which should be and is required to be responsible to the Minister in this Parliament and to the Parliament itself. In that it has failed. 
It is not responsible to this Parliament unless this Parliament is able to be properly informed and unless the Minister who is responsible in this Parliament is fully informed. The Minister clearly has been misled by his Department and clearly has not established nor has full control over the activities of the department of state which he represents in this Parliament. For that there is only one proper course of conduct: If he will not resign, the Prime Minister ought to seek his resignation. The motion I move is one of the utmost seriousness and I hope that it has the result of ensuring that the situation which has occurred does not occur again. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
How many officers of the Department of Social Security were employed as inquiry officers to examine the accuracy of information provided by social security applicants or recipients as at 1 May 1978. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
How many persons are employed as tax inquiry officers in the commercial area. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
What provisions exist for a private citizen or public servant to obtain redress from illegal security service activities or harassment. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 May 1978: 
1 ) Is the Navy seeking to reduce the pay levels of a number of other rank categories. 
If so, is it proposed to alter the levels of (a) Signals Leading Seaman, pay level 6 to a pay level 5, (b) Aviation Leading Seaman, pay level 4 to a pay level 3 and (c) steward, pay level 3 to a pay level 2. 
3 ) What is the reason for seeking to reduce the salaries of personnel in these ranks. 
asked the Leader of the House, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
1 ) How many questions without notice were dealt with on each sitting day of the 1 978 autumn sittings. 
Is it considered that this represents an adequate opportunity for members to question Ministers. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) Has the Historic Memorials Committee commissioned a portrait for the National collection of  Senator Neville  Bonner, as the first Aboriginal to be a member of the Australian Parliament. 
If not, has the committee considered such a commission. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 June 1978: 
1 ) Has he announced that the Australian Services Canteen Organisation is to be wound up. 
If so, did he indicate that continuing losses were the basic reason for the closure of the Organisation. 
In which of the last 10 years did the Organisation record losses. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Is the purchase price of push-button telephones lower than for standard units. 
What is the price quoted for the supply of similar quantities of (a) standard and (b) push-button units. 
Is the push-button unit fully transistorised without moving parts. 
Are the anticipated maintenance costs for push-button units below those of standard units. 
Are additional charges to be made for push-button units for financial reasons or to raise revenue from the public based on novelty or scarcity factors. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
Has the Government received representations from any of the participants in the motor vehicle manufacturers plan for consideration of an alteration which would permit withdrawal from the plan and re-entry as a new entrant at lower rates of local content. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
1 ) What conditions apply to the use of aircraft from No. 34 Squadron. 
What are the financial arrangements for charging the cost of travel under these arrangements. 
Under what circumstances are members or shadow ministers entitled to travel on VIP aircraft. 
Are arrangements for the use of No. 34 Squadron aircraft during election periods solely at his discretion. 
5 ) Can senators be transported within their State. 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Has a formal request been received from the United Nations for the provision of support troops for a United Nations peacekeeping force in Namibia? If so, has the Government responded to the request, and in what terms? 
-These two proposals relate to light commercial vehicles and trucks. As it is not usual for the House to have the opportunity to debate these proposals later, I want to ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  one or two questions about the general matters which may or may not be in the proposals. Obviously, I have not had time to read them. In the last couple of days the Minister has announced proposals to substitute tariff for bounty on certain parts supplied for commercial vehicles in Australia where the parts are not supplied from in-house sources. Whilst this will be of advantage to the parts manufacturers in Australia vis-a-vis competition from imported parts, it could create in cases where there are marginal price differences conditions where the companies which currently manufacture in-house components- I think immediately of General Motors-Holden's Ltd and International Harvester Australia Ltd and possibly there are other companies in Australia- will find it no longer economic to manufacture those parts and will prefer to buy them outside with the benefit of the bounty. 
My concern is that this could cause transfers of employment which, while possibly benefiting the smaller companies, may have serious repercussions in regional areas. The Minister and I both live in regional areas where this could occur to the extent where substantial sections of manufacturing plant could go into disuse purely because of the operations of a government bounty designed to assist sections of the industry. I make the point that during the period of the Labor Government some forms of assistance which were given to maintain employment in certain industries, coupled with the subsidies which were then available in Victoria- I do not know about other areas- created over-capacity within Australian industry in certain areas. This also created imbalances in those industries because the employment creation subsidies, together with a subsidy which was available in some instances from the Victorian Government to allow decentralised industries to change to more economic forms of production, although this sometimes brought them into somebody else's market place, caused unwelcome structural changes and the breakdown of not one but two companies operating in a field where there was an adequate market for the original company but not for two companies. 
I do not know whether the Minister is able to reply at this stage. I am concerned about the possibility of existing in-house manufacture being discontinued because it may become more economic to buy outside. I am concerned also about the effect of displacement and the possible movement of employment opportunities from one area to another. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
1 ) Is the firing range at Williamtown Air Force Base in danger of being rendered inoperative because of the encroachment of sub-divisional development. 
Would loss of the capacity for training in weapon firing seriously reduce the ability of the base to carry out its functions. 
What action is the Government taking to ensure that the functional capacity of the base as a pilot training and operational base is retained. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 May 1978: 
What is the current authorised staff establishment of the Joint Intelligence Organisation. 
What was the authorised staff establishment of the Organisation prior to the establishment of the Office of National Assessments. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) How many incidents of robbery or misappropriation of arms, explosives and weapons from defence stores have occurred in the last year. 
Where did the robberies and misappropriations occur and what was taken. 
Which of the locations have (a) permanent and (b) part-time security coverage. 
Are security arrangements for the storage of weapons and ammunition at unpatrolled locations, such as Australian Defence Reserve depots, adequate to prevent weapons falling into the hands of criminals or terrorists. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
Did his Department recently place orders for laser rangefinders for the Defence Forces with a Norwegian firm. 
If so, has an Australian designed laser rangefinder capable of similar functions been developed at the Weapons Research Establishment, Salisbury, SA. 
If so, was the estimated cost of the Australian system below the system purchased. 
Was the Australian system considered. 
Would purchase of the Australian system have given stimulus to Australian industry and encouraged continued expertise in weapon development technology. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
During the answer to a question the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said that I would be responsible for dismissals and loss of job opportunities at Godfrey Hirst Australia Pty Ltd in my electorate if policies of the Opposition were pursued. The Prime Minister misled the House on that matter and made charges against me that I think I am entitled to refute. The facts are that Godfrey Hirst Australia Pty Ltd is the only wholly Australian manufacturer of carpets and does not import any carpets, In 1976 the company asked for a reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority which after 18 months was refused by the Government. It was seeking protection against the dumping of United States and New Zealand carpets, not carpets from ASEAN countries. The company has a major commercial process that it has developed without government assistance and it has been notably overlooked in any government assistance for the marketing of that process. Godfrey Hirst Australia Pty Ltd is extremely successful. It is improper for the Prime Minister to cast any doubts on its future success. 
I have nothing on my conscience that would require me to explain to the employees of Godfrey Hirst Australia Pty Ltd the policies of the Opposition, but their jobs have been repeatedly placed in jeopardy by the Prime Minister. 
-I raise a matter which was mentioned today by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  during Question Time. At that time, the Prime Minister indicated that members of the Opposition would be responsible for substantial losses of employment in Australian industries if they asked the Government to explain legislation which was before this House last night. That particular legislation was so complex that it warranted 1  'A  minutes in a second reading speech from the Government and no explanation at all as to how the system would work. However, I do not want to debate that particular question because that piece of legislation has been passed. 
This morning the Prime Minister made a number of charges relating to firms in the electorates of various members. I know the situation of the firms in my electorate and I know the problems that those firms have had with the present Government. I think that before the Prime Minister, who uses beautifully prepared throw-away lines which are totally meaningless as far as the firms are concerned, starts using those sorts of gimmicks, he ought to be prepared to accept the sorts of responsibilities that the Parliament and the nation are entitled to expect from a person who seeks and attains the high office of Prime Minister. The firm in my electorate mentioned by the Prime Minister- Godfrey Hirst (Australia) Pty Ltd- is the only carpet manufacturing firm in Australia which as a result of a policy decision makes all its carpets in Australia. Until recently, like all the rest of the carpet firms, it was a partial importer of carpet. 
Throughout 1 976 the company sought to have a reference against dumping referred to the Temporary Assistance Authority for hearing in order to protect its manufacture in Australia against dumped carpets from overseas, especially the United States- not the Association of South East Asian Nations countries, as the Prime Minister inferred. That reference was not granted because the Government was not prepared to stand up to the importers who objected to this measure and who, in a number of cases, were also Australian manufacturers of carpet who were in a better position by importing than manufacturing. That report was sought for over 12 months in order to protect the jobs of Australian workers. But the Government refused to take any action at all. It took the side of the importers. 
Subsequently there was a full hearing on the matter and that hearing has now been completed- in 1978. But the firm is still awaiting the determinations of the Government on the report of the Industries Assistance Commission. It took until 1978 to complete a report which was started in 1976. Yet the Prime Minister comes into the chamber and talks about the threat to jobs. If that is the speed of action of the Government on a matter as important as this, and the Prime Minister places the importance on it, then God help any Australian firm that is in desperate trouble and in urgent need of assistance. Prior to the 1975 general election, the Prime Minister came to Geelong and told the car workers how he would protect their jobs. One thousand of those workers who were employed then are now collecting unemployment benefit. If they do not happen to be married, the rate of their unemployment benefit is frozen for another 18 months- under the policies of the Prime Minister. 
The firm about which I rose to speakGodfrey Hirst (Australia) Pty Ltd- has developed one of the most modern techniques in the world for the dyeing of carpets. It is accepted internationally. The sort of assistance this Government has given it is to recommend it for a design award. It is not giving the firm any substantial or significant assistance to market Australian technology when that technology is marketable and capable of being an important source of revenue to this country. It is unfortunate that on a matter as serious as the question which gave rise to the question asked of the Prime Minister today, the Parliament - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I wish to raise a matter concerning a ruling you made,  Mr Speaker,  on privilege. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 May, 1978: 
1 ) How many persons have entered Australia as refugees by small boats. 
How many were (a) male and (b) female and what were their age groupings. 
) What were the countries of origin. 
How many persons were unable to meet health requirements normally applied to persons seeking entry into Australia. 
How many persons who entered Australia under the circumstances referred to in part ( 1 ) have applied to have other members of the family admitted to Australia as migrants. 
How many family members are involved in these applications. 
Are normal health requirements applied to these applications. 
To what occupational groups did persons entering Australia as refugees belong. 
How many of these refugees came direct from their country of origin. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1) Is the proposed new installation at North West Cape to be under the operational control of the United States Navy. 
If not, who will have operational control of the facilities. 
Were funds for the purchase and installation of equipment appropriated to the United States Navy or another agency. 
Does the North West Cape agreement provide for the use of the base by any organisation other than the United States Navy. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
Was the Australian Joint Intelligence Organisation aware of the United States Government proposal to alter the facilities at the North West Cape base. 
If so, when was the information received and from what source. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) Is it normal practice for matters of significant policy content to be discussed at a technical level within the Department of Defence, without any notification of, or report on, the discussion being made to policy and other sections of the Depanment. 
Do technical level discussions involve details of financial arrangements, and the letting of tenders for technical equipment. 
Were tenders for technical equipment let in August 1977 and funds for the installation at North West Cape approved by the United States Congress in 1977. 
Was the Government or the Depanment of Defence notified in advance of the intention (a) to let tenders for equipment and (b) to appropriate funds for the Australian installation in the 1977 United States defence vote. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
How many Defence personnel are located in Washington, D.C. 
) What is their rank or designation. 
Are Defence Force officers answerable on a single service basis. 
How many civilian officers are responsible for policy areas. 
Do any of the Defence personnel located in Washington have responsibility for reporting on policy developments. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) Which officers of the Defence Department or Forces are responsible for monitoring and reporting upon hearings of defence matters before United States Congressional committees and sub-committees. 
On what date and to whom were the hearings of the Congressional Sub-committee on Defence Construction at which documents were tabled relating to new facilities at the North West Cape Base reported upon by the Australian Defence officers who had the responsibility of making these reports. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 May 1978: 
1 ) What was the composition of the delegation from the Defence Department which went to Washington, D.C. in November 1977. 
Did Air Vice Marshal Jordan lead the delegation. 
Was Air Vice Marshal Jordan the only member of the delegation present during technical briefings at which plans for the expansion of United States facilities at North West Cape were discussed. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
How will profits made from canteen services be assessed after the Australian Services Canteens Organisation is wound up. 
) What will happen to these profits. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
1 ) How many civilian personnel were employed by the Australian Services Canteens Organisation as at 1 April 1978. 
How many persons employed were (a) part-time, (b) female and (c) located in centres with civilian populations under 10,000 persons. 
What alternative employment is available in the location referred to in part 2 (c). 
How many service personnel will be required to transfer to these locations in order to provide the service currently given by civilian staff in the Organisation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 June 1978: 
1 ) How many Service Personnel will be required from each Service to provide canteen services to replace the Australian Services Canteens Organisation. 
Will these personnel be taken from existing service strength. 
) How many of each rank will be required. 
Will special training or courses be required. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 June 1 978: 
1 ) Is the Government undertaking a reduction in the level of services available to Service families in isolated areas. 
If so, is this a policy decision designed to reduce costs. 
Are reduced services and facilities a cause of discontent and loss of morale. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 June 1 978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a published interview by the Secretary of his Department on 17 May that discussions on the new satellite communication terminal AN/MSC-6 1 had taken place at a technical level but had not reached policy areas. 
If so, has he made a similar statement. 
Is the new AN/MSC-6 1 satellite terminal part of the United States intelligence and control system. 
Did the United States intelligence sources inform Australian intelligence of the proposed changes and their advantages. 
Did the Joint Intelligence Organisation in addition to technical areas of his Department have information about the United States proposals; if so, why was this information withheld from him and the Permanent Head. 
If JIO was not informed, will he ensure that new procedures are instituted in order that Australian intelligence is aware of new initiatives and developments immediately they commence. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 June 1 978: 
1 ) What sum has been paid to Service trusts from the distribution of profits from the Australian Services Canteens Organisation during each of the last 10 years. 
What was the undistributed profit of the Organisation during each of the same years. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 4 May 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government decided which commodities will be included in negotiations for freer access of Australian primary products to the markets of (a) the United States of America, (b) Japan and (c) the European Economic Community. 
Does the Government intend to warn Australian manufacturers of the inclusion of their area of activity in trade-off arrangements associated with negotiations. 
Has the Government considered increasing the number of European passenger cars into Australia as a bargaining point. 
-I am somewhat at a loss to know why the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  felt the necessity to make a statement on these three points concerning the Government's general policy decisions in relation to conditions of service and defence matters. One of the notable points about this statement is that the Government has decided to assess the cost of rations and quarters twice annually instead of annually. The Government stated in its Budget Speech a few nights ago that because of the change in the inflation rate and the consequent greater stability, it is reasonable that people on age pensions and other sorts of pensions ought to wait and have their incomes adjusted annually. In other words, the Government is using the double standard which it has used over a considerable period of time. When Government expenditure is involved it considers that one standard should be adopted. For instance, it considers that a period of 12 months between adjustments of the incomes of pensioners and other people whose incomes depend on Government assessments is satisfactory and that six-monthly adjustments are no longer necessary. But when income may accrue to the Government- according to the estimates of the Department of Defence the amount anticipated to be saved this year by more frequent adjustments is $21 1,000- the Government changes the period between adjustments from 12 months to six months. When it makes money, more frequent adjustments are necessary. When someone who can ill alford it pays, less frequent adjustments become necessary. 
The dropping of the recruitment allowance is a consequence of the Government's success in creating large scale unemployment and thereby providing a significant pool of people to select for recruiting. I am not sure that this is a good policy. I have to rely on the Minister's statement that the allowance does not significantly encourage recruiting. It was introduced during the period of the Labor Government in order to assist recruiting in difficult times by holding those people who were already in the armed Services. I make one point, however: If the reenlistment bonus has any significant effect- I would like to see the evidence that it has not- in retaining persons who have already completed a period of service and therefore are trained for the jobs which they are expected to do in the defence forces, it is a saving for the Government, not a loss. 
The cost of training any person for any of the complex tasks within the defence Services is extremely high. An amount of $1,000 paid three times in the economic lifetime of a serviceman is not a very great amount compared with the cost of training a new recruit for the same job possibly every six years or even more frequently. It is not possible to work out the economics of this measure unless some realistic and thorough assessment of reasons for signing on can be made and unless it is known whether the incentive adds to the numbers who sign on. Whilst recruiting may be easier than it was two years ago, one of the factors of which the House might take note is that recently a very extensive advertising campaign to obtain trainee military pilots was largely unsuccessful. I understand that only five suitable recruits were obtained in six months. 
The third measure outlined in the statement is the withdrawal from servicemen serving outside Australia of a relatively minor benefit in relation to postage; that is, communication with Australia. Again, the amount concerned is about $200,000. That amount is almost exactly the same as the amount allocated in the Budget for  increased costs in the reintroduction- as it is described in the Estimates- of the schools cadet system. I do not know that either measure has any additional effect on defence. One is one of a number of withdrawals of service conditions for servicemen that have taken place in recent years. It should be remembered that last year the Government decided to extend from three years to six years the qualifying period for defence service homes loans. 
In this year's Budget, despite a statement made in May by the Minister for Construction and Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay)  that an inquiry was being undertaken into whether the defence housing system would be continued, the Government has withdrawn $15m from the provision for defence housing. Again, it may be that the Government is taking advantage of depressed economic circumstances which Government policies have created. In the areas of defence establishments where houses are not to be provided or are to be disposed of if the report of the Expenditure Committee is carried through to its conclusion, it will create competition for rental accommodation which is in very short supply in most cities of Australia. It will thus force up rentals not only for Service personnel who may gain some subsidy through other schemes within the defence system, but also for civilians in the same areas, and thus add to their costs. 
This is a minor statement by the Minister. I think he has made it now to soften the blow, but it represents a continuing deterioration of the conditions of service of Service personnel and a Government attempt to cash in on the employment and economic difficulties in the community by reducing the standards of those persons who are employed in government service. The Opposition is concerned by the statement. It is more concerned with the general implication which arises from it, namely, that in periods of difficulty the Government is prepared to discontinue services which at other times it would maintain. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 15 March 1 978: 
How many (a) officers of the Defence Department and (b) members of each of the defence forces are posted outside Australia. 
Where are these persons located. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 May 1 978: 
1 ) How many rifle ranges or firing ranges are located in or adjacent to built-up areas, or in situations where overshoot areas extend into places of general public usage. 
In which cases is it proposed that these ranges will be re-located. 
-The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has confirmed what I said before dinner, namely, that the Commonwealth is withdrawing from a responsibility into which it entered and which it accepted when the original Bills were passed through the Parliament in 1969. Those arrangements provided that the Commonwealth would meet certain costs if certain services were developed within the community, under conditions laid down by the Commonwealth. This is not a 1972-75 arrangement. It is a 1969 arrangement. A considerable infrastructure and commitment has been built up around those arrangements contained in the original legislation. The Minister has said that this proposal is part of new federalism. It seems to me that most of the losses of Commonwealth support are in areas such as this which usually involve relatively low-cost programs which assist people in ways which help to avoid larger costs in areas from which the Commonwealth is withdrawing. 
The Minister has said that the States have a responsibility to pick up the tab. There is a wide range of matters in which that is the attitude of the Commonwealth. It is withdrawing from everincreasing areas. Funding to the States is not increasing at the same rate. Yesterday during Question Time we had an example of selective quotation. The final figures given by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  snowed that in at least one State the actual rate of increase this year was lower than the inflation rate, and so there was a net loss. This year local government has not received an increase in assistance from the Commonwealth. Where the State does not pick up the tab- not only in this area but also in a wide range of other services-local government will either have to pick up the tab or increase its costs or reduce important services. That is what this is all about. We have to decide whether services such as home help are important in the community. 
-Self-help is one of the good things if one has enough money to be able to afford it as the honourable member for Petrie has. But a lot of people in the Australian community do not have that opportunity. 
-If the approach of the honourable member for Petrie and of the Government to assistance for the needy in Australia is epitomised in that type of inane remark, then God help any person in Australia who has a genuine and real need. 
-You have just said - 
-It is the easy way out to talk about people, who like to live a normal life and do the things that other people do, as being squanderers, layabouts and drunkards. But this legislation is about home help service in the form of housekeeper services, meals-on-wheels and other services. Very few of those people are seen to be doing anything other than trying to survive in their own homes and to avoid being placed in an institution. That is the sort of service we are talking about. It is the service which keeps people in their homes, in dignity and out of institutions where they do not want to be. We are talking about $5m in the one instance and a considerably lesser sum in the other instance, the welfare officer situation. The Government has taken a policy decision- that is its right- but do not try to slide out of it by saying that the Government is not removing its funding in this area and that it is somebody else's responsibility, because that is what the Government is doing. Do not expect honourable members on this side of the chamber to sit back and keep quiet, having listened to the demands and platitudes of honourable members opposite over a number of years with regard to this type of area. The principal Act was introduced by a Liberal-National Country Party Government, the funding arrangements were set by a Liberal-National 
Country Party Government and this Government is now moving to remove those funding arrangements in a manner which can only cause difficulties. The Government is saying that the States will pick up the tab and it has already acknowledged that it does not have any agreement for that. 
-It is not a dollar for dollar basis now, and the existing arrangements were built up on that type of funding. 
-I am aware of that. We know how mean the Government is. What the Minister is asking us to accept is that we should thank him for taking a couple of dollars off people. The Government is saying 'If the States do not pick up the tab, bad luck'. It has no agreement that the States will pick up the tab. In a number of areas, because of the financial arrangements, these types of services have been extended and are now available where they were not and would not have been available except for the existing funding arrangements which the Government is now removing. The States, as I have said, have not agreed to pick up the tab. The Government never asked them to make that sort of agreement before it brought in the legislation. It has merely said 'We will reduce our contribution'. 
It was announced but not agreed, not negotiated. The Government has no agreement. That is what I said. The Government is using as an excuse the fact that it has told the Premiers that it is pulling out and, therefore, under the new federalism its arrangements must be adopted by the States as a matter of compulsion. That is what the Government is saying. The alternative is that this type of service will be reduced within the community in areas where local government bodies do not have the funding available to meet the difference in the costs of providing those services. 
-We are talking about $4m or $5m. 
-The facts are that as a policy decision the Commonwealth has decided to remove itself from an area where, we would say, important human factors are involved and where cost factors in the long term can be greater to the Commonwealth because of the inability of people to remain in their homes, which situation can be created by the withdrawal of domiciliary services such as those contained in this Bill. If the Government wishes to do that, that is all right, that is its responsibility. But at least honourable members opposite should say that that is what the Government is doing and not try to cover it up by suggesting that the Government is doing the States a favour by handing over a financial obligation. 
-I am glad that the Minister can. 
-I would have hoped that something would have sunk into the skulls of honourable members opposite by now. Unfortunately they have money to hand out but it is not for those people who are covered by this type of legislation. 
-This debate was adjourned for about a fortnight. I should make it quite clear that the Opposition is opposing the States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill because it represents a repudiation of Commonwealth Government responsibility, a withdrawal of support for home care services which are vital to the care of the aged and a transference of financial responsibilities from the Federal Government to local government bodies in the main which are not in a position to afford it and which to date have been denied the increase of 1.5 per cent to 2 per cent of revenue which they were promised. This is part of a transference of financial responsibility in advance of a transfer of finance so that the additional funds that eventually will go to local government will have been absorbed by the withdrawl of other Commonwealth facilities. 
The Bill is opposed by the Opposition because the Opposition believes that it is bad legislation and bad planning and represents bad government. Under this legislation services which would enable people to maintain themselves in their own homes with a little bit of assistancenot very expensive assistance- will be withdrawn or increased in cost with the end result that much more expensive facilities will be utilised in order to care for those aged persons under conditions which are less favourable to them and which they find less satisfactory. 
-The Opposition is not opposing this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-This is another piece of legislation in respect of which the Government, or at least the National Country Party, has repudiated undertakings given to the Australian electorate and, in particular, to supporters of the National Country Party. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Hume will remain silent.  I  call the honourable member for Corio. 
The nitrogenous fertilisers bounty legislation was the subject of an Industries Assistance Commission report presented in September 1975. The report was condemned immediately by the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  members of the National Country Party in general and by most members on the then Opposition benches. The report was not adopted by the then Government and the bounty, which was then $80 a tonne, was reintroduced for a further 12 months. 
Nitrogenous fertiliser is very significant in the sugar industry as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will know. It is also used significantly in cereal grain production and in other primary production areas in Australia. The price of nitrogenous fertiliser in the period since August 1974 to the present has increased from $97 a tonne to around $ 1 5 9 a tonne. It will increase another $ 1 4 a tonne as a result of the Government's policies relating to the price of fuel oils- fuel oils are basic to the manufacture of this commodity- and by a further $9 a tonne as a result of this legislation. In other words, in the last month the Government has taken actions which will increase the cost of nitrogenous fertiliser to the user by $23 a tonne. That will happen as a result of legislative action in this Parliament. 
I  heard an honourable member on the 
National Country Party benches say that it was rubbish to say that the Government had repudiated undertakings given to the electorate. It may be that things said by honourable members when they were in Opposition have no meaning now that they are on the Government side. Certainly, there is a significant body of evidence that is a fact. But these are the words used by the present Minister for Primary Industry and I quote them without any elaboration because they speak for themselves. The then Opposition spokesman for Primary Industry, the present Minister for Primary Industry, said this: 
I can give an unqualified assurance on behalf of the Country Party, that in government with the Liberal Party we will restore the bounty on superphosphate and ensure that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty continues. 
I hope that honourable members on the National Country Party benches heard what I said. I will repeat the statement: 
I can give an unqualified assurance on behalf of the Country Party, that in government with the Liberal Party we will restore the bounty on superphosphate and ensure that the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty continues. 
A few weeks ago in the Senate,  Senator Webster,  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry in that place, had this to say: 
A review of the outlook for those industries using nitrogenous fertilisers is being undertaken at present to determine the appropriate arrangements to apply during 1979. When this review is completed the Government will consider the matter and make a decision. 
My understanding of the situation is that significant problems exist within the industries that use nitrogenous fertilisers and that the price to growers has been reduced significantly in comparison with what it was two years ago. One can only assume that the Government, having undertaken that review which the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  indicated would take place, has decided that the industry no longer warrants its support. In 1976, the first year after this Government took office, the bounty was reduced from $80 a tonne to $60 a tonne. This legislation will reduce the bounty from $60 a tonne to $40 a tonne. That represents a 50 per cent reduction in the bounty in four years. 
The present Minister for Primary Industry made it very clear- he made an unqualified statement when he was in Opposition that the bounty would not be removed. The reductions are moving almost in line with the recommendations of the IAC report presented in September 1975. It is not unreasonable for this House to assume that, in fact, this is the intention of the Government. Certainly, the Government is removing from the grower a benefit in respect of nitrogenous fertiliser amounting to $20 a tonne. The Government also is increasing the price of fertiliser by approximately $14 a tonne as a result of the decisions it has made in respect of oil pricing. 
The sugar industry is the major industry using nitrogenous fertilisers. It uses about 37 per cent of the total quantity of nitrogenous fertilisers used and the number of growers in the industry is significantly less than in other industries where the usage is at about the same level. The sugar industry is currently facing declining prices and has little expectation of increased sales and increased returns to the grower. We have heard mention of the fact that the superphosphate bounty is being restored, albeit at a declining rate, for the next five years. But this nitrogenous fertiliser bountry, which most likely affects far fewer members of the community, is being gradually eroded away. This is not happening in the way in which the superphosphate bounty will gradually fall into limbo, by the attrition of time, but through actual reductions in the bounty and by government sponsored increases in the base price of fertilisers. 
The Opposition opposes this legislation. It is contrary to undertakings given by the Government to the Australian electorate. I hope that those honourable members on whose behalf the statement I referred to earlier was made by their then spokesman on primary industry will show enough integrity in this House to vote in accordance with the undertakings they gave to the electorate when they were seeking election to this place. I hope that they vote in accordance with what they said their actions would be in this Parliament if they were elected. One can derive from this legislation the impression that the Government has decided that the sugar industry in particular can fend for itself. The end result of the changes that I have mentioned in the pricing arrangements for nitrogenous fertilisers will be requests for significantly increased prices on the domestic market. This would be counterproductive to the Government's claimed aim of reducing price rises and inflation. 
That is not the only justification for opposing this Bill. The Bill will also reduce a benefit, contrary to the Government's undertakings when seeking election. The Government's election mandate ought to be something for which honourable members opposite accept responsibility. The legislation will also reduce on bounty when the Government has decided that another bounty should stay for five years unaltered. The Opposition opposes the Bill. It believes that it represents a dishonest presentation by the Government of what it claimed to represent when it sought the support of the Australian electorate. I hope that those honourable members of the National Country Party who believe that they have a responsibility to the undertakings they gave to the people whom they asked to support them will also oppose this Bill. 
I raise a matter which I find of serious concern. I hope that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  who is at the table, will report my remarks to the two Ministers concerned. I feel that the case I raise is one of inequity. Recently a former resident of the United Kingdom who served with the Royal Navy in circumstances in which he was arguably a member of the Royal Navy. In 1975, he sought, and subsequently in 1976 was granted, a service pension. He was marginally over the age of 60 years. I point out to the House that in all probability he would have qualified for a number of other benefits had he not obtained the service pension. Almost certainly he would have qualified for an invalid pension, and certainly he could have obtained sickness or unemployment benefits. I make that point because of the circumstances I want to raise. 
The gentleman concerned made his application on the basis of having served on Royal Navy ships. He was an employee of the Admiralty in circumstances which in his opinion were the same as those of a member of the Royal Navy. He was interviewed in 1975 by what is now the Department of Veterans' Affairs and was subsequently granted a service pension in about April 1976. He received that service pension until he applied for fringe benefits and then asked for review of the denial of those fringe benefits in mid- 1977. As a result of a review by the Repatriation Commission his service pension was cancelled. That was on a test of eligibility and is arguable. He has been notified in a letter from the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  that the amount of service pension payable to him during the period in which he was deemed to have been eligible by a decision of the Department is recoverable as moneys incorrectly paid by the Department for a pension for which he is now not eligible. The point I make is that because the original pension was granted, whether in error or not, and certainly not through any responsibility of the person concerned, his eligibility for other forms of benefit was not tested. Therefore he is not now in a position, if the pension which was paid to him for a period of approximately 18 months is cancelled and has to be refunded, to seek recognition of his right to another form of pension which would have been paid in almost identical circumstances and at exactly the same rates. 
If the legal position is as stated in a letter I have received from the Minister, then the legal position is wrong. A gentleman who has been granted and has accepted as a right a pension and who almost certainly would have been eligible for other forms of benefit under other Acts of this Parliament should not be placed in a position, because of a change in definition or a change in the manner in which he is assessed some considerable period later, of being fined the equivalent of 18 months payments of that pension. He was most likely entitled to a pension under other Acts of this Parliament- a position which was not tested- but may not have been entitled to a pension under the Act of Parliament for which he was accepted. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Parliament, a number of matters could be raised. This type of debate could and should take a lot more time than it will take in this chamber. For instance, two years ago a report on reforms for committees of the Parliament was presented and, while some action has been taken not directly from that report, the report itself and its consequences have not been debated by this chamber even though, on a number of occasions, undertakings were given that that debate would take place. I think it is important that members start to think about and debate what the Parliament is and how it functions. If we do not give consideration to this aspect, persons outside the Parliament will continue to press for changes in the parliamentary system which would affect its operation and could destroy the institution as a viable part of the Government and the representative voice of the Australian people. These matters are significant and serious. 
In recent days there has been what I think is a fairly unfortunate debate by people who either are not very well informed or are seeking to mislead others about parliamentary privilege. It arises mainly out of events which did not take place in this Parliament but which have been related to this Parliament and have in the past taken place at least in another House of this Par.liament. The Victorian Premier and the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  have both made statements about the need for a review of privilege. Firstly, I would say that the Standing Committee on Privileges asked for a reference for that type of review some time ago. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  gave an undertaking that the Government would pursue the request and appoint a joint select committee- privilege being a matter for the two Houses- to inquire into and to report on the operation of privilege. 
But the matter to which I refer in this context is the question of certain documents which were tabled in the Victorian Parliament. I have seen a number of complaints by the Victorian Premier and, as I mentioned, a Minister of this chamber relating to that matter. Something that should be understood at least by the Press when it talks about something being given privilege is that papers do not carry privilege and cannot be given privilege by the House. Privilege does not apply at aU to any form of paper tabled in the House. The Parliamentary Papers Act provides immunity with regard to publication provided that the House authorises the publication by a resolution of the House. That is quite different from automatic privilege. It requires the vote of the majority of the members of the Parliament to give a paper that immunity. In fact in the Victorian Parliament such a resolution was carried. Leave was granted to table a document and subsequently a motion for the printing of the document was moved and carried. The Premier's party had a majority, so that neither the Minister in this House nor the Premier of Victoria - 
-I do not know exactly what he had to do with this matter. What I am talking about is people making irrelevant claims about a document carrying privilege because it was presented when in fact that privilege was given by a majority vote of the House in which the Premier who now complains commands a majority of votes. There is no way in which an individual member of a parliament can table a document unless he has the unanimous agreement of the House. A private member can table a document only with leave; one dissenting voice prevents that tabling. The document can only be given immunity- it cannot ever be given privilege- if the House carries a resolution to the effect that the document will be printed and therefore published. I think that matter is important. It is important that the difference be noted. I think it is important also because privilege is fairly meaningless in the context of this parliamentary operation or any parliamentary operation where we have a situation where no penalties effectively can be applied to any person who stands and defies the Parliament. 
The only penalties which can be applied by this House, no matter what the nature of the privilege, is a reprimand or an imprisonment. I was not here during the case relating to Fitzpatrick and Brown, but I would doubt that a majority of members would ever again agree to imprison a member of the public on the basis of a breach of privilege, even of the grossest type. That leaves the House impotent against a defiant person. The House can do nothing to punish that person other than to reprimand him or to humiliate him. Effectively it can do nothing. I think that an inquiry into privilege is absolutely essential. I think it is essential when it is carried out that those honourable members who carry it out should not be stampeded by people outside the Parliament about what they would like to prevent the Parliament having and what they would like to prevent being debated. This is not the only privileged institution in the community. The privileges of Parliament have been hard won and have been evolved for very necessary reasons and should be retained for those reasons. It is necessary to make privilege effective and to use it responsibly. I think that this Parliament has done the latter. It is up to this Parliament now to do the former. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
-I want to raise a matter which was the subject of some heated debate in this House last week. It concerns legislation which has now passed from this chamber. It relates to the arrangements which were made between the States and the Commonwealth at the time of the Premiers Conference. Arising from those undertakings, legislation was passed through this House. I am referring to the States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill 1978. In debating that matter, the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  indicated that at the Premiers Conference the Commonwealth had said that the States would be expected to pick up the difference between the $2 for $1 grants which had existed previously at the Commonwealth level in the home help area and a $ 1 for $ 1 grant which the Minister indicated was an acceptable level of Commonwealth assistance in this area under the new federalism scheme. I disagreed with the Minister, but that is neither here nor there in this case. 
What concerns me is that we now see the situation under the new federalism policy as it is unravelling. If the published remarks of the Secretary to the Victorian Cabinet are to be believed- I have no reason to suggest that they should not be believed- the Victorian Government has indicated that it feels that it has met its obligations under this arrangement by maintaining the share which existed before the Commonwealth changed its arrangements. The significance of this is that the Commonwealth, under the new federalism policy, has said: 'I am all right, Jack'. It has reduced the $2 for $1 grant to a $1 for $1 grant for assistance in home help arrangements. The Victorian Government has not acknowledged any obligation at all under the new federalism policy in this matter and has maintained its grant at its pre-existing level. 
The two governments involved in fact have allowed the total amount of funds available to the local government bodies that operate the home help schemes to fall by approximately 25 per cent- an amount which now must be met by increasing charges for home help services which, in the main, are housekeeper services and so on. Quite often aged persons who are seeking to remain in their own homes are not able to afford to hire domestic assistance. It is a cheap means by which domiciliary care can be provided and by which people are able to stay in their own homes and do not have to be admitted to nursing homes which are far more expensive and which are less satisfactory to many aged persons. The service has to be maintained under this new federalism policy which, in effect, is a means by which both governments can absolve themselves of any guilt in failing to meet their responsibilities to these people. 
The amounts of money involved are not large. For the whole of Australia about $5m is involved and in Victoria the amount is less than $2m. Let me point out the difficulties that the Premier of Victoria has with money. Recently he told the Victoria Racing Club that no additional funds would be made available to it this year over and above what had already been announced. The VRC said: 'We will go out and campaign against you in a political sense because the racing industry requires more funds'. Within four hours the Premier found $3m, which is more than is required for the Victorian Government to meet what the Commonwealth claims are its responsibilities under the home care scheme. 
The position now is that where the councils carrying out the schemes can afford it they will have to find the additional money. There has been an expansion of this type of service since the $2 for $1 grants were introduced by the Whitlam Government. Two councils in my area to which I have spoken are up for $25,000 and $12,000 a year in additional costs. They do not have any part of the additional 0.5 per cent of revenue that they were promised. These councils will have to find that money from a non-growth sector of taxation. I think it is about time, if there is such a thing as new federalism, that someone worked out who has what responsibilities. It should not be just a haven for buck-passing. That is what it has been in this case. 
-It is practically impossible to deal effectively with the estimates of either of these two departments, firstly because, unlike senators, we are not provided with details of the departmental estimates in documented form. Even the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was supplied with the only available copy a few hours ago. The estimates of these departments cover as broad a range as I think we would have before us. In 10 minutes it is impossible to deal with them adequately. There are some specific matters in each portfolio with which I think the Committee should deal, and some matters which probably ought to be included in the estimates of these departments are not. After a quick glance at a copy of the estimates for the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and at Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1978-79, I am concerned at the fact that a number of costs, which under previous governments were set out in total in those documents, are not now set out in the documents presented to the Parliament by the present Government even though comparisons between the two sets of figures are regularly made. 
I refer to the costs of overseas travel. The present practice in assessing costs of overseas travel is to discount from the costs officers seconded from other departments to the Prime Minister's entourage and also to exclude from the costs the segments which relate to the fares of those officers. When VIP aircraft are used, the cost is not included in the total costs either. This presents a false picture. A look through the Estimates does not give any real comparison between the cost of that form of travel and the cost of the form of travel previously used by another Prime Minister when a charter aircraft with all-up costs was made available. Then it was quite easy to see what was the total cost of travel. I am not one of those people who would inhibit the travel of Ministers. I believe it is absolutely essential that direct contact between Ministers and members of parliament take place with people outside Australia. For too long Australia lived in isolation and hid behind its isolation. I think it made serious mistakes because of that situation. That does not alter the fact that if comparative figures are to be used the figures ought to be comparable. 
One or two other matters concern me about this set of estimates. One matter is that the cost of security arrangements is rising rapidly; I am not sure that the security itself is increasing at the same rate. There is at least a school of opinion which suggests that the development of our visible security arrangements around any particular figure will in fact draw unto him persons who will seek to breach that security. If publicity is given to those breaches it encourages other people to try the same thing. 
-I think there is too much visible security at the moment. In this building at the moment there is practically one police officer for every person in the building. I do not think the arrangements, most of which have been enforced by the Prime Minister, are reasonable nor do I think the announced future arrangements are reasonable. My understanding is that currently there are matters before the Joint Committee on Public Works relating to alterations to this building, of which neither of the Houses of Parliament have been told, nor have the members of the Parliament. I think it is important that members should know what is going on in this place and elsewhere. One instance about security arrangements to which I would point is that where they cover persons such as the Leader of the Opposition, he is entitled to expect that any documentation that he makes of his movements to a security organisation or to persons who are responsible for his security are kept absolutely confidential. At the moment he cannot be confident that that is the situation. 
In 1976 the then Prime Minister called for the diaries of people who were responsible for the security of a former Prime Minister. I think that must cause a breakdown because the persons concerned have to accept that their movements are not secure or confidential with regard to any meetings or anything else that they arrange; in the name of security they can be documented, can be called for by the Prime Minister and are available to the Government. That is just the same situation as putting secret police on the tail of Leaders of the Opposition and, by doing so, preventing them from carrying out their proper functions. 
One of the problems with the security arrangements at Parliament House is that they can inhibit seriously a person seeking to see a member of parliament. A Government Minister or other persons could use the fact that a person visited an Opposition member against that person in respect of promotion opportunities and so on. This sort of thing does happen. Names are sought and names are found. Members of the public may be inhibited by security arrangements. These people could, as the Prime Minister once saidand admittedly it was in his favour to make such a statement- wish to raise in the public interest matters that ought to be discussed with members of parliament and members of the Opposition. 
I would like to refer to a number of other matters while I am speaking about security. I would like to raise one point which the Prime Minister could determine relatively quickly which would greatly enhance the security arrangements in this building. I believe that accommodation should be provided for the Executive branch of Government outside this building. The accommodation could be connected by a single entrance only through which members of the Executive could enter this place for parliamentary duties. This would not be difficult to arrange. It will be easy to build an Executive block adjacent to this place which had a single elevated entrance into this place. Such an arrangement would remove from this building the entrance and exit of many thousands of people a day who come here not on parliamentary business, not for duties associated with the Parliament but for duties associated with the ministry. If this were done security arrangements would be that much easier. 
I would like to make one other point about security. I believe that the present arrangement whereby everyone from the Clerks down walks around with a dog tag on his or her collar is not the best means of identification. I think that people who are regularly employed in this building could be covered much more adequately by being provided with some form of insignia to which they alone would be entitled. If it is considered that a pass is necessary- and the pass system is utilised all around the world- a pass could be carried in the pocket and produced whenever required. It is ridiculous that people who are extremely well known have to walk around wearing their picture on a piece of card. This system of identification may be all right in places in which people are not known. But it is certainly not all right in this place. I believe that a proper insignia and a proper codification could be issued to people who work in this place. I do not think there would be any difficulties at all if identity discs, or what have you, were carried in the pockets of people in this place and produced on demand. 
I want to make reference to one other matter which I think hits at the very heart of the way in which Parliament itself operates. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  is responsible for the Remuneration Tribunal. The Tribunal in its most recent report made an allocation of staff to the Opposition. The Prime Minister, for reasons best known to him, decided to refuse to go along with the recommendation in the report. He used what was left out of the report to enable him to act in this way. The Prime Minister threatened to reduce staff by the number which he intended to cut off the allocation to shadow ministers if the Opposition did not accept his breach of the meaning and sense of the report. The report - 
-The Prime Minister. 
-The report indicated that one additional staff member, an assistant secretary- that is the research assistant-electoral assistant rate- be provided. 
We have letters. 
-The Prime Minister decided that he would not do that but that he could make 10 staff members available. He then fixed different rates of salary. There were in fact 16 staff members involved, if we leave the leaders out of the allocation. He then fixed salary ranges and conditions. As a result $ 1 ,000 or $2,000- it is most likely nearer to $2,000 than $ 1,000-will be spent on the provision of this staff than would have been the case if the report of the Tribunal had been adopted. I think that that is stupid. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (Dr Jenkins)-Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether he is correctly reported in a letter in the  Pacific Defence Reporter  which appears above his name. Does he confirm the statement in that report which indicates that the long term future of defence procurement items for Australia rests with overseas suppliers rather than Australian suppliers? Does that statement reflect government policy and is that objective the reason why the Nomad aircraft has been excluded from the specifications for the supply of equipment for surveillance ordered by the Department of Transport? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 26 May 1 978: 
1 ) Are officers of his Department responsible for providing the Government with reports on hearings before the United States Congressional committees. 
Is coverage of the various armed service and defence committees proceedings and reports part of the responsibility of officers of his Department in Washington. 
Were reports on the Congressional hearings at which documents disclosing the proposal to locate an expanded satellite facility at North West Cape, reported upon by the Australian Mission in Washington: if so, was this information transmitted to the Department of Defence. 
-The Opposition does not oppose these Bills. The Opposition has long stood for stabilisation and rationalisation of income for primary producers. The dried fruits industry has gone through more than its share of traumas in recent years, not the least of which was caused by the changes in market access which occurred because of the exclusion of Australian produce from the European Economic Community. The Bill itself continues a scheme which was introduced in 1971. At that time, it covered most dried fruits- raisins, sultanas and currants- and was similar to the wheat stabilisation scheme. Growers paid into a fund when prices were high and received payments when prices were low. This Bill extends the scheme to the seasons 1978, 1979 and 1980. 
In the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a number of points emerged. The first is that the base price is now $5 1 5 a tonne, which is 20 per cent above the 1976 level and will be adjusted by cost changes. The second point is that only sultanas are covered by the new scheme. The other dried fruits- raisins and currants- have been dropped out of the scheme. The Commonwealth's contribution is limited to a $25 a tonne payment and to $60,000 in total. This payment is made if and when growers' funds are exhausted. Previously, payments were limited to $23 on 75,000 tonnes. The Commonwealth's absolute commitment has fallen, even in money terms, from $ 1.725m to $1.5m. This is a movement in the direction recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission to phase out assistance in this area. It is to that extent- in line with similar legislation which passed through this House recently with regard to the nitrogenous fertilisers subsidy- that the Government is moving to adopt the report of the Industries Assistance Commission to phase out of existence that particular fertiliser. This is directly contrary to the undertakings which the Government gave to primary producers in the firmest terms during its period in Opposition. 
I remind the House of the statement made during a debate on the nitrogenous fertilisers legislation on behalf of the National Country Party by the now Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  He indicated, without any qualification, that a National Country PartyLiberal Party Government would not in any circumstances accept the IAC report. At that time for obvious political reasons, he demanded that the Government be thrown out of office because it intended to adopt the IAC report. Not dissimilar statements have been made in respect of this particular area of primary industry. In fact, National Country Party members when in Opposition- I make that qualification because, in Government, they are not delivering what they promised in Opposition- made rather exaggerated claims about what should have been done by a Labor government but what is not being done now by the National Country PartyLiberal Government. It is another case of when one does not have the responsibility one says things that people will like to hear. In fact, some honourable members opposite are still saying those things out in the electorate but they are not voting that way in this Parliament. This legislation will give some assistance of a declining nature to a section of the dried fruits industry. It certainly is not comprehensive assistance. It certainly gives notice to growers that they can expect the Government to follow the same course it followed by introducing the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Amendment Bill- that is, gradually phasing out assistance to the industry. 
-That is your statement. The Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Amendment Bill was quite clear. It was absolute evidence of the National Country Party's lack of influence in the Government and of its failure to honour obligations which it gave to the electorate, to those people it asked to support the National Country Party during the period it was in Opposition. This legislation represents a drop in government assistance of $225,000 which is a significant drop at a time of increased costs. It also adds to a number of other adjustments which are being made by the Government in the primary industry areas where government expenditure is being phased out. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation. It warns the growers that, unless they are able to require undertakings given by members who purport to represent them, they can expect further legislation of this nature and of the nature of the nitrogenous fertiliser legislation to withdraw direct government supportother than talk- from their industries. 
-We have just heard the proof of the statement that statistics can always be made to say anything that one wishes them to say. It is a pity that the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  did not concede that some of the expenditure, especially in areas such as education, is the result of government policies and not some gross expenditure or lavishness on the people of Canberra. The fact of the matter is that over the last 20 years as a matter of government policy many thousands of people have been transferred compulsorily to Canberra. I think we all remember this policy as one of the major mistakes of the Menzies era. Nevertheless, it has occurred. It has caused increases in population such as occur in the outer suburban areas of the major cities. It has reduced the population in some of the State capital cities from which people have moved. This has required additional expenditure because new facilities have had to be provided for an unnatural growth of population. I think that ought to be taken into account when anyone starts talking about the amounts which are expended in Canberra, especially on such things as education. Governments cannot have it both ways. If a government tells people that they have to leave their homes, pull up their roots and go to another place and if it expands that place unnaturally and far beyond the normal growth, I think it is not unreasonable for the government concerned to be expected to provide the facilities. 
As to people getting value for money out of money expended in Canberra, I think most Australians are quite proud of the open spaces in Canberra. Woe betide any government which decides that rather than have open spaces and a national capital of which people can be proud it will set Canberra up for land speculators or others to put up flat developments or something else. That is the sort of alternative about which I think we are talking. Some of the natural areas in Canberra which are uncared for and still in a semi-bush setting ought to be left that way because they are part of the city's attractions. That is not what I rose to speak on; but people make speeches such as that and play to the electorate back home on the basis that those people there are being cheated a bit, as they are. The Government showed just how much people are being cheated the other day when a Minister, in dealing with the home help Bills, talked about it being the responsibility of the States to pick up the tab for what the Commonwealth has not done. But of course the States have not picked it up; so the councils will have to pick it up. This is a beautiful buck-passing exercise. If I were on the side of Parliament where that was happening I would be looking for some sort of scapegoat too. 
I want to talk about a matter which is of serious concern and should be of long term concern to most Australians. We may now be debating one of the last sets of estimates for the Northern Territory. We are allowing control of that area to pass out of the hands of the Federal Parliament and into the hands of a new parliament which has been established for the Territory which is moving rapidly towards statehood. That is a situation in relation to which the people of the Territory have not as yet been consulted, and apparently they are not considered important enough to consult. Nevertheless, they are being forced into that situation. I note that it is not the intention of the Government to adopt the same practice in regard to the Capital Territory. Apparently the people of Canberra are closer to hand and therefore are able to demand a referendum. By moving out of the Northern Territory we are moving out of an area in which almost the total Aboriginal population lives in a tribal state. That is the aspect about which I am concerned because I do not think that provision is being made for the long-term continuation of a reasonable policy in relation to Aborigines in the Northern Territory. I do not think there has been any planning in that regard or that any funds have been allocated for that purpose. 
The history of the American Indian is one of a white man government in Washington making a succession of treaties and wars with the Indians. On each occasion that the economic circumstances changed so that the white people of the United States needed something that they had guaranteed the Indians in a treaty, the Government would develop a new treaty which met the economic needs and greed of the white population. In Australia we are moving into that sort of situation in which we give undertakings which, apparently, we do not take very seriously. Certainly, undertakings that have been given on behalf of this Parliament in recent times have not been taken terribly seriously. Before we allow to pass out of the control of this Parliament the determination of the rights and privileges of Aborigines, including the right of Aborigines to live their own lives, I think proper and carefully set out legislation which deals with the tribal Aborigines and their rights to live in the manner in which they wish to live in the Northern Territory should be established. 
I think it would be a tragedy if we were to adopt policies such as those being espoused in Queensland, for instance, where the aim of the Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement in that State is the assimilation of Aborigines. In other words, its aim is gradually to wipe out the Aboriginal race and make them become imitations of white people and, on the basis of the way in which the policy is being carried out at the present time, second class citizens. This is the worst thing that can happen to any race of people. It is something which the Aborigines in Australia should not be obliged to accept. It is not accepting the responsibilities which were given to this Parliament by means of a referendum which received practically unanimous support throughout Australia. It was the most overwhelming result in a referendum on a contentious matter in Australia since Federation. 
The obligations to Aborigines rest on this Parliament quite clearly. It is absolutely essential that we should assert the rights of Aborigines to be Aborigines. We should reject, once and for all, any white anting of their culture and their normal mode of living for commercial gain. That is the great danger with which they are faced: They are vulnerable to exploitation for commercial gain, whether it be by a rum runner or a mining company which, if it means making a quick dollar, does not mind if the whole history of a people is completely denigrated in return for a few years of quick turnover. In many cases, Austraia could afford to forgo that development. At the moment, it would appear that that is not likely to occur. 
Anyone who likes to look can see the clear evidence of what happened to the American Indians. Greed was placed above everything else in the relations between the white people of the United States and the American Indians. At the moment, all the evidence indicates that both this Government and the existing State Governments which have under their control large numbers of Aborigines are allowing a similar situation to develop. In the last week, the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  has been saying that if certain mining contracts were not signed then the land rights of Aborigines in the Northern Territory could be in jeopardy. In a number of instances the right of Aboriginals to make decisions for themselves has been taken away. We have a situation even now whereby Aboriginals could be allowed to elect their own representatives provided they elect those representatives nominated by the Ministers of the Government concerned. 
I make no suggestion about whether the Government of the Northern Territory has or has not made decisions on this issue, but it will be under extreme pressure from commercial interests to give up principles which are unprofitable but which protect the Aboriginal people of the Northern Territory who wish to live in their traditional way. The Government of the Northern Territory will be under extreme pressure. It has less than a viable economic base at this stage on which to assume statehood and to be virtually weaned from the Commonwealth. It will be under pressure to raise revenue in the easy way. One such method is that of denying the traditional occupants of land in the Northern Territory their way of life. Unfortunately, the word 'assimilation' is used too often and we are rarely prepared to consider what it actually means. It does not mean that Aborigines should become part of the white community. It means their losing their national identity and their traditional way of life and being destroyed as a race of people. At an earlier time in history there may have been some excuse for what occurred in the United States. At this stage there is no excuse for it occurring in Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-'  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I want to raise a matter which is of some concern to this House and which should be of concern to the members of it. There has been a lot of talk about 
Parliament House- about security and other matters- in recent weeks. I want to draw attention to a matter which might have far greater consequences for the thousand-odd people who work in this building when the House is sitting. I refer to the ability to protect this building against fire. Two years ago during Estimates debates I indicated that the Press Gallery in this place is most likely the greatest fire trap in Australia. I ask you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to raise this matter with the Presiding Officers because I believe that the House is entitled to information about this, as are the people who work in this building. 
It has been brought to my attention that a report by the Fire Commissioner in Canberra indicated that this building could be brought to what would be regarded as a satisfactory level of fire protection only by razing it to the ground and rebuilding it. I can assure you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that such a report does exist. I want to know whether the Joint House Department has taken that report into consideration; if so, what action has been taken upon it; and whether it has been drawn to the attention of the Presiding Officers of this Parliament. Fire is something which no one ever expects to happen. It is something for which this House ought to be prepared. If the fears which are being spread about the building about security ever come to fruition the extent to which it  is  possible to contain the fire, evacuate the people and control this building under conditions of fire would become of paramount importance in saving lives. 
If this report exists- I am assured it does- I think that people in this Parliament are entitled to know that this is so. If the report is couched in the terms I have indicated- namely, that this building just cannot be brought to modern fire protection standards because of the manner in which extensions have been made to it, the nature of its structure and the complete lack of any rational communications or accesses within the building- I think that someone ought to say something about it and try to undertake the necessary corrective actions if possible. If, as I understand it is so, the only way that this is possible is to bulldoze the building to the ground, we at least ought to be told and the people who work in the place ought to be paid danger money. 
-This is an abuse of parliamentary privilege on a motion of this nature. 
-These pieces of legislation are being forced through the Parliament in one day. The normal conventions of this 
House have been breached in that the Government did not allow for a party meeting of the Opposition to take place between their introduction and their debate in this House. They have been guillotined through because the Government feels impelled to get them out of the way. In the first instance, the Government was not game to bring them into the House at the time it indicated that it would do so- on Tuesday of the last sitting week- because it was not confident that it could rely on the support of its own members. For that I do not blame the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  If it had not been laid clearly on the line that this was a matter of confidence in the Government, the Government would not have been able to rely on its own members with regard to these pieces of legislation. They were introduced on the last day of the previous sitting period and they are being debated on the first day of the current sitting period. 
We may have been able to manage it in that time. Unfortunately the honourable member did not have to try. This legislation contains some very curious and innocuous provisions, but it does not contain the provisions which we would have expected it to contain. Honourable members opposite keep talking about the levy on income tax, which is expected to raise some $600m in this year, as being a temporary provision. Income tax was introduced in Britain during the Napoleonic Wars as a temporary provision and I would suggest to the Treasurer, unless he has some hidden treasure which he has not yet disclosed, that this will be just as temporary a measure. There are a number of one-off provisions in the Budget and in the Treasurer's accounting which will not be available for his accounting next year and which will have to be replaced by other forms of revenue, if the Government's undertaking is to be met. The income tax surcharge is one of those provisions. If the Budget figures are correct, since the Budget was introduced changes have eroded nearly $200m off the Government's income or have added that amount of money to the expenditure provisions. For instance, it has already been announced that the estimates for unemployment benefits are $ 100m under the presently projected figure. 
The Government made a lot of noise and Government members continually make a lot of noise about their support for home ownership in Australia. This is an act of faith with people speaking on behalf of the Government parties which is reflected neither in this legislation nor in actual events in this Parliament. One of these pieces of legislation takes away from first home purchasers on combined incomes below $14,000 the tax deductibility of all or a portion of their interest payments on mortgages and thus adds to the cost of buying a home. To obtain total deductions one has to be on an income of less than $160 a week, which would almost render one ineligible for a loan without the assistance of this provision. The Government is wiping out the provision in one fell swoop. It says that it is justified in doing so because the measure is designed purely to raise revenue, but by doing so it will add something like $30m to the costs of purchasing homes for many thousands of Australians. Many people entered into mortgages on the basis of this tax concession being available and with confidence that the Government would meet the commitment which was given to young home owners, many of whom are partly through the first 10-year period of the repayment of their mortgages. Other people who would have been planning to purchase a home are in not dissimilar circumstances. They have to borrow another $2,000 because the Treasurer cannot meet the obligation which was given in the 1975 election campaign with regard to homes savings grants, which are not contained in this legislation but in respect of which the Government's actions are comparable in taking away the home interest deductibility scheme. In both instances the person most in need and in difficulties and with the least borrowing powers will be the person who suffers most. Such people have to borrow an additional $2,000 which the Goverment promised them as an election promise and made a lot of fuss about. To have to borrow that additional money is a repudiation of the worst type. Despite the bits of papers being sent out by the Minister responsible, which are fraudulent documents because they have neither the financial backing of the Government nor guarantees from this Parliament that that money will be available, there is no undertaking that the Treasurer next year is going to increase the expenditure for homes savings grants from $20m to something like $ 1 60m which will be the amount needed to meet the commitments for this year in addition to the total commitments which will fall due next year. This legislation also has a very serious provision for retrospectivity in respect of accumulated annual leave which is something the Government has said in the past that it does not agree with. 
-Not right? 
-The Government has indicated that amounts received in lieu of accrued annual leave will not be taxed at the ordinary rate, and the only concession of which I am aware is that it will be set aside from the normal annual income of the person concerned and taxed as a separate item. That means an increase of about 25 per cent in the rate of tax in that area. 
Because the Treasurer is apparently not aware of the real circumstances of many people, I would point out to him that persons are not always able to take their annual leave when it is due because of circumstances in their employment. Governments are the worst offenders in this regard because they will not always release employees for the full period of accrued annual leave which is available to them. In such cases an accrument of available annual leave takes place every year. A number of persons who were approaching retirement age would have decided that it was not unreasonable not to take their accrued annual leave in the last year or the last couple of years of their service. Now they will pay a penalty of 25 per cent not because they have deliberately not taken their annual leave but in many cases because they have not been able to take such leave. I would point out that during the period that I was an employee of the Victorian Railways there were many employees who had accrued annual leave of up to one year because they were not allowed to take the full amount of leave owing to them each year and in some instances they were not granted their leave at all. 
For the Treasurer's benefit I would point out that in recent years there have been employees in this Parliament who, because of the sittings of the Parliament and because they were required to be present in the Parliament during that period, were not able to take the leave which had accrued, some of it as a result of a leave credit as opposed to payments of overtime which were not allowed within Public Service awards under which they worked. Those people who could not take their leave because of circumstances beyond their control will now have an increase of 25 per cent retrospectively placed on those accruals. If the Government wishes to change the form of taxation then existing accruals should not be counted. The Government has exempted them in the case of long service leave. I think the Treasurer ought to take into consideration quite seriously the fact that in many instances annual leave is in much the same circumstance. A person taking a long period of accrued annual leave, expecially at a late period of his employment, could seriously disrupt the organisation for which he works. The organisation might not have been prepared or might not have been able to grant annual leave during an earlier period when it fell due. 
I raise one other matter in this legislation. Among the various changes in taxation there is an announcement that donations to the World Wildlife Fund Australia will be tax deductible in future. I do not dispute that measure at all. I do think though that it is most likely the Fund would have been much happier if the amount spent on feting the  president  of the Fund and his wife when they were in Australia recently had been donated to it. I am sure it would have been more appreciated by everyone concerned. What I ask the Treasurer is: Why one particular organisation? Who does Community Aid Abroad have to bring to Australia in order to get its extremely valued work outside Australia accepted as tax deductible. Why are organisations such as the Freedom From Hunger Campaign and others which are doing very significant work and contributing greatly to Australia 's reputation abroad left out? 
-I think the organisation concerned is also an important organisation. But what I want to know is how the Government striked its rationale. What is the rationale by which this particular decision is taken while other organisations which have been appealing to governments for years have always been rejected on the basis, and I presume still are - 
-You put the guillotine on this debate, my friend, not I. If you want to speak in debates you make arrangements with the Opposition on debates; but if you want to ride roughshod over the Parliament that is your business. 
-With this legislation the Government is showing very clearly where it stands on the question of income tax. The concessions which are being taken away are those which will disadvantage most of those on the lowest income. I wonder what the Treasurer has done about the book that is advertised every week on the back of the  National Times?  The advertisement says that for $10 a person can buy a book which will tell him how to avoid paying all income tax. Rydge's Journal publish the book so the Treasurer will know where to find his tax avoidance schemes. Rydge's guarantee that if a person follows the advice given in that book he will not have to pay any tax at all. He will not even have to go into the sorts of schemes which some people enter into for tax avoidance purposes. I would have thought that the publication of that sort of information would have been illegal under the various income tax Acts, but apparently it is not. If it is possible, as claimed in this advertisement by what is supposedly a reputable journal, to purchase a tax scheme for $10 that will enable one to avoid all forms of income tax, then I suggest that someone else has to pay, and the person who has to pay is, of course, the wage and salary earner who is on - 

 A division having been called, and the bells being rung- 


 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I take a point of order. I think it should be pointed out that the Opposition does not oppose all provisions of the Bills, but it has no opportunity to vote selectively on the Bills or the provisions of the Bills. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
1 ) What are the financial arrangements necessary for the proposed purchase and modification of two Boeing 727-100 aircraft for No. 34 Squadron. 
Did he state that the funds for the purchase of these aircraft will not be provided from Defence appropriations; if so, will ownership of the aircraft be vested in the RAAF. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 May 1978: 
) What is the reason for his failure and that of his predecessor to answer question No.12 which first appeared on the Notice Paper of 9 March 1977 in the previous Parliament. 
As the information sought in that question is of a factual nature, is the delay due to a wish to withhold information from the public in order to avoid questions about the validity of additional charges made for the now widely advertised Touchfones. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 May1978: 
What defence-related facilities (a) operated by a foreign power and (b) jointly operated by Australia and a foreign power existed in Australia as at (i) 1 July 1968, (ii) 1 July 1970, (iii) 1 July 1972, (iv) 1 July 1974, (v) 1 July 1976 and(vi)1 May 1978. 
What is the foreign power and designated operating agency in each case. 
Have any alterations of operating agency taken place; if so, (a) when, (b) in respect of which facilities and (c) by what authority. 
Under what agreement or other authority does each facility operate in Australia. 
) When did each agreement or other authority enter into force and when does each expire. 
What is (a) the function and (b) the location of each facility. 
How many (a) Australian and (b) foreign personnel were employed at each facility as at (i) 1 July 1968, (ii) 1 July1970, (iii) 1 July1972, (iv) 1 July1974, (v) 1 July1976 and(vi)1 May 1978. 
To how many personnel at each facility did a Status of Forces Agreement apply as at 1 May1978. 
What was the capital cost to (a) Australia and (b) the foreign power involved in siting and building each facility. 
What has been the annual operating cost in constant dollars to (a) Australia and (b) the foreign power involved for each facility since its establishment. 
What firms undertook construction and provision of major equipment for each faculty. 
Does Australia operate either solely or jointly any defence-related facilities in foreign countries; if so, (a) where, (b) for how long has each facility operated, (c) what is the purpose of each facility and (d) under what authority or agreement does each facility operate. 
I repeat that yesterday the Government guillotined as a matter of urgency income tax Bills through here in order to avoid debate in the House which is responsible for the financial affairs of the nation. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  has made it quite clear that the Senate can have two full days to debate those Bills if it wishes. I want to know why the Government is afraid to debate in this chamber. On this occasion it is going to force Bills through this House that cannot be considered in the Senate tomorrow because the Senate has already given the time to the income tax Bills. These Bills will not be considered in the Senate until next week. 
The Opposition, in seeking to test the legislative committee proposition- and there are some extremely complicated clauses in these Bills which are coming before this House with a lot of explanation required as to meaning, effect and manner in which they will be implemented by the Government- believes it is appropriate that as it had a party meeting today and could not have given notice before today of its intention to move to a legislative committee position, should be able to test the new system by having these Bills referred to a legislative committee. The Minister's proposition in suspending Standing Orders is to ram the Bills through the House so that proper examination cannot take place in this chamber. 
-I second the motion,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Earlier tonight, the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  indicated that there would be ample time for debate on this question. It is quite obvious that the Government has repudiated that statement. The Government is not prepared to allow this matter to go to a committee and quite obviously - 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  put: 
That the honourable member for Corio be not further heard. 
-I ask the Minister for Defence whether a decision has been taken not to continue with the installation of Australiandeveloped sonar equipment on FFG frigates being constructed for the Australian Navy. Has an American system, SQSS6, been chosen to replace the Australian-developed system? Is the United States system significantly inferior to the Australian system and not attuned to operating conditions in Australian waters? Has this replacement been brought about by lack of financial support and staff for the Australian operation which have caused delays in development? 
-I know that the honourable member is not interested in Australian products. He would rather buy from the Americans. That may be the idea of the honourable member for Bendigo; it is not mine. 
-by leave-There has been more activity on the Australian Services Canteens Organisation over the last six to eight months, since the Government made a statement without any backup statements on future canteen services or the future of the employees in the organisation, than on any other matter of similar consequence. Most members of the Parliament have had a considerable amount of correspondence on this matter. The report of  Sir Basil  Osborne has been requested on a number of occasions- My understanding is that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  at least on one occasion, indicated to a delegation that it was not available because it had been presented to a previous government. The date on the report would indicate that that is not correct. A second report, on  Sir Basil  Osborne's recommendations and prepared by the Australian Services Canteens Organisation Council, also has not been made available to the House. 
The Government has made a decision to reject the recommendations of  Sir Basil  Osborne which were largely to continue a central canteen organisation operated basically by civilians with a component of Service personnel so that those service personnel would have experience for the operation of canteen services in wartime. The question remains of the type of canteen facilities that the Government intends to make available to the Services. This statement adds nothing to the vagary of earlier Government statements. It appears only to add to the confusion and the problems which confront persons who are employed in ASCO, especially civilian employees, in areas where alternative employment does not exist or is not readily available. The Government has indicated on at least one occasion that it will seek to employ those civilian employees where practical but in most cases the employees of the organisation will be replaced by Service personnel. When the Government gets around to announcing the form of organisation which it will adopt it will almost certainly be a Service organisation. Those persons who are displaced because of the change of organisation will have little or no opportunity for alternative employment. I have a table of the locations of members of the organisation and the unions to which they belong. It broadly delineates the types of activity in which the civilian personnel are involved on a full time, part time and casual basis. I ask leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="111131197810172_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

Basically, there are approximately 1,000 civilian employees in the organisation, of whom 480-odd are permanent employees, the remainder being part-time or casual employees. A large number of them are located in remote areas where no alternative employment and no other source of income are available. Part-time jobs for females, such as clerical work and similar forms of employment, just do not exist in the remote areas where some military establishments are located. 
The provision of canteen services comes under the conditions of service of servicemen and it is an entitlement which they have. I do not doubt that the Government will provide in future a form of canteen services. However, it should have been possible for the Government to have given this report to the Parliament a year ago before announcing its decisions. It should also have been possible for the Parliament to see the responses of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation to the criticisms which were levelled in  Sir Basil  Osborne's report, as well as the modifications to its operation which are suggested in that report. I think it is also not unreasonable to expect that when the Government takes a decision to wind up an organisation and to replace it by another form of organisation the Government ought to be able to tell the Parliament and the people involved in employment in that area what sort of organisation and what opportunities will be available to them. 
It is over six months since the Government announced its decision to wind up this organisation. It has just tabled a report which was given to it in 
January 1976. The responses to that report are not available. They are referred to vaguely in the text but I do not think it is good enough for some thousand employees of ASCO to be left hanging at the end of an unbaited hook which the Government has set- they may be employed and they may not. There has been no indication from the Government of what its intentions are, if in fact it knows. I think the Government does not know what type of organisation it intends to use to replace the present organisation. 
The Opposition is glad to see this report after some 2V4 years of secrecy. There is nothing in it that ought to be secret. I do not think there is anything in the responses of ASCO that ought to be secret. I hope that one day the Government will make up its mind about what is in fact intended for these services and especially about the future of the employees who will be displaced without prospects of jobs in the areas in which they are located. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) Did he appoint a committee of inquiry into anomalies in the Defence Forces Retirements Benefits scheme relating to persons who retired prior to 1972. 
If so, was  Mr Bonnett,  a former Member of Parliament, appointed to that committee. 
Did  Mr Bonnett  report on serious disadvantages which exist in the scheme in a report presented to him. 
If so, has the Government considered this report. 
Will action be taken to correct these anomalies. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) When will he make a detailed statement on proposals for the future development of canteen services to replace the Australian Services Canteens Organisation. 
Will the Organistion be compensated for the loss of employment caused by this policy decision. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) What is the reason for the continuing delay in the payment to servicewomen of equal pay granted some time ago. 
Is this delay caused by problems related to the computer capacity of his Department. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) What ranks and classifications in the (a) Army, (b) Navy an (c) Air Force have been recommended for reductions in pay rates in the latest review. 
2 ) What is the level of the reduction in each grade. 
Has the Government decided to accept these recommendations. 
-I ask the Minister for Defence: Were three officers of the Naval Technical Services Division of the Department of Defence who prepared a report critical of the Division's operations interviewed late last year by a senior officer of the Department of Defence? Have these officers been moved from their then positions to less important positions because of their activity in preparing this report? Has a further witch-hunt relating to this report, sponsored by the Prime Minister's Department, been commenced in the last week since publication of articles by a well-known journalist? Finally and most importantly, what action has been taken within the Department of Defence to meet the criticisms contained in that report, which I understand are substantially valid? 
I would like to be as confident as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton),  who has just resumed his seat, that the Government is in fact dealing with technological change and that it is approaching a position where the effect of that change on the community is capable of being managed. All the evidence is that we are in a substantially laissez-faire situation relative to the long-term effects of technological change, and the Government has neither the capacity nor the inclination to deal with those who are displaced by that form of change. It is one thing to suggest that we can train the future work force to take up the positions that will result from those changes; it is another thing to try to bury or forget that section of the work force which is being permanently displaced from employment and skills into which they entered many years ago on the basis that they could anticipate confidently that they would spend their working lives in those industries. Persons of 45 years of age and over with obsolete skills are becoming permanently unemployed, with little prospect of finding alternative employment. 
The judgment of the Government is that those people should be treated as some sort of criminal or as being unwanted. Thus it passed legislation in this House last week to freeze their wages if they are not married- those wages being unemployment benefit- for a period of 1 8 months. So not only are they disadvantaged because of circumstances beyond their control but also the Government has decided that it will apply financial penalties to them as well. That is in sharp contrast to what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had to say when he was in Opposition. He indicated quite clearly in public statements that it was his opinion- his opinion not as Prime Minister but as a member of the Opposition and spokesman on labour at that stage, I think- that the persons who were displaced by long-term economic downturns of technological change should not be asked by the community to bear alone the costs and responsibilities that arose from a change in their circumstances. He actually said that he believed that the community should be responsible for paying those persons at least 80 per cent of the minimum wage. The difference between his statements in Opposition and in government is that he is now reducing below what is considered to be a very minimal level of pension persons who are single- and not necessarily young, because there are a large number of older people in this category- to a sub-standard and frozen income of $52 a week. 
I want to raise one or two matters relating to the Department of Productivity and the general initiatives being taken in areas where Australian technology is capable of competing internationally but where the Government has given minimal or no assistance to promoting the commercial use of Australian technology. I start with the Nomad aircraft and the coastal surveillance decisions which involve at last one of the departments in these estimates as a customer and another as a marketer. I also raise the question of the Australian Government Engine Works in Melbourne, which is under threat of closure, the general situation of the design and development capacity of Australia's electronic industries, and the substantial lack of support for the end products of those industries. In this place there has been some debate on the Nomad. A Government members committee, as opposed to the Government, has indicated that the aircraft should be utilised more fully as a reconnaissance aircraft to maintain surveillance, for civilian and defence purposes, of the Australian coastline. 
The Government in its original specifications and in a substantial proportion of the existing specifications has virtually written the Searchmaster version of the Nomad out of this area. The aircraft is capable of doing a job on a longterm basis, as is at least one other aircraft substantially made in Australia, but in this case an Australian-designed aircraft, in a superior manner to those aircraft which will obviously be preferred under the terms of the proposals put forward by the Government. A change of mind brought about by a public outcry and some concern expressed in this House will allow the Nomad aircraft to be considered, and I emphasise considered, for three of the aircraft jobs in the coastal surveillance area. I do not think that that will help Australian technology in any way. Any other country with aircraft as capable and as suited to the role for which they are required would give support to its own industry, its own design capacity, and would utilise that aircraft in a role where a government requirement exists and would look upon that as an investment. We are seeking to sell this aircraft to other countries and have done so successfully in at least two instances. It must be disheartening for the marketers of the aircraft that they cannot point to support in tangible terms from the Australian Government and from Australia for the aircraft for the role in which we are seeking to tell other people that it is admirably suited. The Australian Government has passed a vote of no confidence in it. 
The Australian Government Engine Works is a different problem. Removal of large engine capacity repair and maintenance in Australia will substantially reduce our response to and ability to deal with defence needs in this country. It is a facility which, irrespective of its economic base, provides skills that are essential to our national wellbeing and to any defence effort that we may have to mount in the future. 
I make the point that the Government has a responsibility in this area. It cannot continue, without serious damage to the total technological structure of the nation, to pass off industries on the basis that in the short term it is cheaper to buy things outside Australia for use by governments than it is to support and maintain skills. 
That reflects the attitude which has now seriously inconvenienced a number of industries in the subcontracting phase where no apprentice training or addition to national skills has taken place over a long period. Hence Australia has been left with an inadequate supply of skilled persons in many industries. It is a short term benefit to forgo the cost of maintaining skills or providing new skills but it is a long term technological loss to the country which cannot easily be replaced. 
I raised those three matters because I think that, particularly in the case of the Nomad, they reflect an attitude which has to change. We have to be proud of our own capacity to do things. That needs some support at least at the government level. The last matter I want to raise is the electronics industry. Australia has, over recent years, almost totally wiped out the Australian electronics industry. One of the few areas in which real design and development capacity exist is the Weapons Research Establishment. It is not under the control of any of the departments we are discussing but it reflects the general national situation. A number of weapons have been developed. Australia has been one of the countries which have been very tardy in purchasing the results of that research. Either the projects have been badly advised in the first place or the Australian Government has not given support to the final products of skills. The end result is that we lose the skills. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Primary industry is one of the most volatile and, I suppose, most important areas of Australian activity. I want to speak in this estimates debate about one specific matter which I think needs clarifying. I want to speak about it without the rancour that has been evident in relation to that matter in the last couple of days. I raise the question of the United States legislation relating to beef which was passed through the United States Congress on the last day of the sittings of the Congress prior to the mid-term elections which are due to take place on Melbourne Cup day. 
The fact that this legislation was to be passed and was before the Congress has been known for at least a year. The details of what was likely to happen have been known for at least four months. I believe, from the limited association I have had with the industry, and I am certain that the Minister would agree, that the agricultural attaches in Washington representing Australian primary producers are very competent and provide the Government with adequate and accurate information. To me that means that they would have provided the Government with the information that this Bill was likely to be passed, especially in view of the large majority in the Congress. Counting votes on the Hill in the United States is a professional art which competent people can predict to within a very small number of votes in relation to most pieces of legislation. 
I merely mention that. I also mention, because these matters are important, the methods by which legislation becomes law in the United States and the disabilities that exist in that area. I think we are being made the subject of a public relations exercise. The passage of legislation through the United States Congress under all circumstances except the circumstances which exist at the moment means that that legislation becomes law unless the  President  takes positive action to veto it. I say that it becomes law under all circumstances except the present circumstances because there is another circumstance. The Congress adjourned after the passage of this legislation. The so-called 'in pocket' passage of legislation whereby the  President  does not in fact lend his name to the Bill by signing it but returns it unsigned to Congress within the specified period, and whereby the Bill automatically becomes law, does not apply if the Congress has adjourned. The Bill cannot become law under those circumstances. Therefore it is not necessary for the  President  to veto the legislation and thus take the odium of that action for the legislation to be rendered impotent, if not defeated. 
At least three months ago it was fairly common knowledge that this Bill would be passed. An election was coming up. Congressmen in the United States, like their counterparts in most other countries, like to show their electors that they are looking after the interests of their electors. In this case the legislation conflicts with what the  President  would suggest is the national position. I think it is safe to say that the  President  will not sign the legislation. It will then lapse and the Congress will have the opportunity if it so chooses to pass the legislation after it has safely navigated the election on Melbourne Cup day. I think that ought to be put on the record because I think it is likely to happen. I think it is most unlikely that the  President  will veto the legislation. I think that is almost certain. I think it is common knowledge in Australia; I think it would be common knowledge among those people in this Parliament who take the trouble to acquaint themselves with the realities of American politics. 
If there was any doubt that that situation was likely to occur the responsibility rested with the Government to send the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to Washington to put 
Australia's position while the Bill was actually before the Congress, before it was passed. If the  President  does intend to pass the legislation the place to be is on the Hill lobbying the people who will pass the legislation, thus causing whatever damage the legislation would do the the Australian beef grower. This is the second occasion in two years when such a situation has occurred. If there is a problem the responsibility of the Government is to be on the spot when the discussions take place and when the decisions are made. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 June 1 978: 
Willhe table the Report on the Australian Services Canteens Organisation by  Sir Basil  Osborne. 
Will he also table additional suggestions made by the Council of the Organisation. 
-In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Education I want to raise a matter of specific and real concern to the area I represent, which basically is the Geelong area. In 1976 the Gordon Institute of Technology and the Geelong State College, being the former teachers college, were consolidated and by legislation of the Victorian Parliament, but on the initiative of this Parliament, became the Deakin University. The Gordon Institute of Technology, at the time when the proposal for the Deakin University was mooted, was in the process of moving from buildings it had occupied for many years in the central business district of Geelong to more suitable accommodation at Waurn Ponds, which was in fact a completely new operation some five or six miles out of the urban area of Geelong. The State teachers college was located in fibro buildings of a very temporary nature which, like this Parliament House, were expected to serve for a much longer period than temporary structures ought to serve. The two institutions were both inadequately housed. One was in transit from a site to which the Gordon Technical School was being transferred. It now operates in those buildings. That institution itself is not able to obtain the accommodation it needs in order to function properly as a senior technical school and training institution under the Technical and Further Education Commission. The Gordon Institute of Technology was gradually being moved to a new location. 
The project was halted during the triennium. Certain funds which were to be available for the Institute of Technology were not actually expended because of the change which had been announced. With the change of government in 1975 funds for capital works were virtually cut off. Perhaps this sort of exercise could have been justified in relation to existing unversities. After all, even if facilities were not improving at least they were fairly adequate. There is always need for greater facilities but at least facilities existed at the Institute. The new Deakin University did not even have the former facilities of the Institute of Technology. They were already being occupied by the Technical School, which was to take over the sub-tertiary functions of the old Gordon Institute. The new buildings were far from complete. In fact, the facilities were less than half of those that the college of advanced education would have expected. No funds had been spent on the State college, which was also subject to transfer, for improved facilities during the triennium leading to the amalgamation of the institutions. It has not since had any adequate funds spent on its existing location, which is temporary and unsuitable. Yet it is expected to operate a substantial segment of a university. 
Under the funding arrangements of the Commonwealth, no additional funds for capital development of the Deakin University were made available last year. No funds have been made available this year. Between $ 1 7m and $20 m is needed for the construction of proper facilities to enable the University to operate on the site on which it is expected to operate. It is quite unsatisfactory and almost unreal that in north Geelong some lectures are given in the faculty of education, that at Waurn Ponds, about 13 miles away, other lectures associated with the same course are given, and that about half way between, in a converted factory, other lectures associated with courses in the same institution are given. That is not a reasonable proposition. I do not think it is reasonable that a new institution which does not have the basic facilities on site should be treated in exactly the same way as the older institutions which have these facilities. 
I raise this matter because I think it is important. I think that the Government's approach is unreal. The University exists. It has been approved by the former Labor Government and by this Government. Facilities for it do not exist. It is unfair to students who live in areas where public transport is practically non-existent. They have to travel extreme distances between institutions in order to obtain an education at a tertiary level. The Technical School is also unsatisfactory for long term accommodation. It has been unable to obtain all the buildings to which it is entitled. It has to share the use of some of them. In general, the denial of capital funds is in fact a denial of educational opportunities. In Victoria, unfortunately, because of opportunistic decisions by the State Government there is an excess of tertiary institutions. The combination of two or three of them into one institution was a step in the right direction. At one stage Victoria had up to 45 degree conferring institutions. Every school above kindergarten looked as though it would be promoted to a degree conferring institution in order to meet the political requirements of the Victorian Government without any consideration at all of the educational status and standing of the degrees which were conferred or the welfare of the students who were subjected to this type of economic or political expansion of these facilities. 
The Deakin University offers a substantial number of off-campus studies. I note that in the last couple of days more than 5,000 people have sought places at the University next year to study basic off-campus degree courses. This is an important development in the education system and one which I believe should be supported. The major point I raise is the lack of capital funds in order to provide the basic faculties for an institution which is expected to operate as and compete with universities which have the facilities they need. Deakin University is the University most affected but at least two or three others were cut back in their physical capital development by changes in government attitudes and policies to the severe detriment of those who have to work and study in those institutions. This was done in a very short-sighted manner. 
-I wish to raise a matter which is of considerable concern to me personally and which should be of concern to the Parliament. That is the staffing of the parliamentary committees. I do not want to raise a specific matter but the method by which staffing is arrived at, the manner in which staff is allocated and the effect that the ability of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  or the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to place ceilings on that staff has on the freedom of the Parliament to carry out its function. There have been and will continue to be problems because of staff ceilings and because of the need for staff to be added to the general committee staff. 
As I see it, because of the staff ceiling arrangements there is also a serious problem of conflicts between the domestic or the single House committees operated by a House, the joint committees which are assigned to a House and the general staff available to the Departments of the Senate or the House of Representatives. At the moment the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has a total of nine staff members. This may seem to be an adequate staff if one ignores the fact that the Committee is carrying out four separate investigations through subcommittees, all of which have substantial work loads. The Defence sub-committee, for instance, has an extremely heavy work load but a staff of two. 
Senators believe that their domestic committees are understaffed and at least some have suggested that it should be within the capacity of the  President  to reduce the number of staff on the joint committees and to allocate that staff to the Senate committees. That legitimate claim by senators highlights the conflict that exists. There are two separate arrangements for committeesfor those established by a single House and for those established on a joint basis and allocated to a House for administration. There are a couple of other committees that are not administered by either House. But by the imposition of staff ceilings a committee can be rendered almost impotent through staff not being available to enable it to adequately perform its functions. If this Parliament is to inquire into anything relative to a major public service or community activity it must have backup research and staff facilities. It cannot have those facilities if the Executive has the right to overrule the Parliament in respect of the resource support that is available to the Parliament to enable it to carry out the tasks it feels should be undertaken. 
I make one other point. I do not believe it is appropriate, even if the existing system continues, for the staff of joint committees, of domestic committees of a single House and of the House itself to be lumped under one staff ceiling. There ought to be an appropriation for staff of joint committees in accordance with the decisions of the two Houses of Parliament to establish those committees. Such committees are established by decision of the two Houses and their staff should be separate from the staff of either House even though the committees' staff may be administered by one or other House. 
It is not possible to deal at length with a matter such as this on an adjournment debate. I would like a discussion of what I see to be an important need for reform of the whole system under which we operate. The system is rendered almost impotent because of the limitations I have described, as well as other restrictions. There is also the fact that the two Houses seem to be competing with one another for a single role. I have prepared a paper which I believe can form the basis for discussion of the activities of the two Houses and the manner in which they should operate. I do not have time to read the paper into  Hansard.  I therefore seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard  so that honourable members can read it and comment on it. I hope that the paper will at least start some discussion of the manner in which this Parliament might make itself an effective decision. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

PARLIAMENTARY REFORM 
A discussion paper on the future development of Parliamentary Government of the Commonwealth by Gordon G. Scholes, M.P. 
The present structure 
At present, the two House structure with differing terms of office and electoral base, but mirroring and competing with each other for status and authority, constitutes a source of instability which can and has made effective government impossible and rendered the electorate impotent. 
The result of an election can because of the differing electorates and methods of election, result in a different result in each House, despite an exactly similar actual vote i.e. the 1974 double dissolution elected a Labor majority in the House of Representatives, but a tied Senate. 
The overhang in normal elections of half the Senate, supposedly to give continuity in the Senate, in fact distorts the wish of the electorate, where it seeks to remove an incumbent majority. 
Proportional representation has removed the possibility of a complete or substantial change at a single election. 
The majority of senators being subject only to the will of their Party, rather than the electorate, only 12 of the 64 senators face a significant electoral risk. 
Thus, the continuity question is irrelevant. 
While Government Members and Senators may affect Executive decision, the non-Executive Members of each House play only a minor and substantially ineffective role in actual law making and the decision making process. 
Not since 1937 has a Government been defeated by a vote of elected Members of any Australian Parliament where that Government enjoyed majority support at the time of election in its own right. 
It is improbable that a reversal of the power of decision making concentration will take place, nor will effective Parliamentary control develop without significant changes in approach, attitude and the relationship of the Executive to the Parliament. 
On both practical and equity grounds the concept of a basic equal component of the Parliament being elected by proportional representation should be accepted and any proposal for reform of the system should include a major involvement of the Senate, but with a role different from the House of Representatives. 
The intended role of the Senate was to protect the rights of the States, however, this has not occurred. If the boundaries of the areas from which senators are chosen bore no relationship to State boundaries, the composition and operation of the Senate would be as it is now, on political, not geographical allegiances. 
In a two House situation it is a waste of resources for the functions to be duplicated. 
The division of a single function between the two Houses, diminishes both and weakens their effectiveness. 
A House of Review and a House of Government is the theory, but not the practice. 
Both the Senate and the House of Representatives are Houses of Government, with the Senate Committees as the only concession to a review function. 
This could be changed to provide each House with a separate and different function. 
-The statement delivered by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  is one on which I congratulate him. However, it contains no reference at all to the real situation in defence. On first hearing, the statement gives the impression that everything in the garden is rosy, that there are no serious problems confronting our defence forces and no serious problems confronting Australian defence. The first thing I want to say is that this statement, following on the statement made last year, buries the five-year defence program and the White Paper on defence presented in 1976. Clearly, the Government is not able to meet that program. The suggestion by the Minister that the deferments or cut-backs- use what word you wishare of a temporary nature is very similar to the suggestion of a former British Prime Minister,  Mr Pitt,  when he introduced income tax. It, too, was to be a temporary measure. 
Lost expenditure is not temporary and it is not recoverable. Delays in equipment programs are not recoverable. The statement delivered to the House today indicates that the Government has accepted a view which it rejected when in Opposition, namely, that there is no credible threat in the foreseeable future. It has slowed down new equipment assessments and purchases until they are almost non-existent. It has reduced the training levels, especially in the reserve force, to levels which would render that force almost totally impotent and must bring up the question whether the reserve force is seriously considered to be part of the Defence Force. I make that statement quite clearly, and I make it quite clear that I support the training and use of the reserve force as an adjunct to the permanent military force and consider that it has a potentially effective role in bolstering the national defence effort. I say 'potentially' because this statement and the general rundown in reserve force activities over the last couple of years make that potential minimal and close to being non-existent. 
One would have thought, after watching the advertising campaigns which took place a little earlier this year, that a serious effort would have been made to ensure that the co-operation with the reserve force that was sought from civilian industry, the input that was asked of officers who give a considerable amount of their time to the reserve force and the participation in that force that was sought from young men and women would have been accompanied by a serious effort by the Government to make that force not only attractive but also a functional and effective means of providing additional Defence Force personnel in times of any need. This statement and the practical situation indicate that that will not happen and is not likely to happen in the near future. 
The Minister for Defence depended for justification of the present statement and the financial situation on past expenditures by past governments. In the statement he used certain figures to justify his assertion that present expenditure is higher than expenditure under Labor governments and indicated that expenditure in real terms is higher than under any other government since the McMahon Government. I think that we ought to put to rest the McMahon Government figure. It is totally irrelevant to the current situation or the situation at any other time after 2 December 1972. The defence budget brought down in 1972 included a component of 1 1,000 national servicemen in addition to a Regular Army force and other regular service personnel which was basically equivalent to the numbers engaged at the present time. At that time 1 1,000 additional salaries were being paid which would have had an effect on the defence vote.  Major equipment  - 
It may have been a sacrifice, but it was one honourable members opposite made knowingly and deliberately as part of their contribution to the Vietnam war. At the time of the change of government in 1972 there was a minimum of new equipment purchases in the pipeline, with none being due for delivery in the first two years of the Labor Government. In fact, most of the decisions on new equipment purchases which are set out in the Minister's statement were approved during the term of the Labor Government. Unfortunately for the Government, in practical terms it still has to pick up the tab for the increased equipment costs which result from those decisions. There have been very few new equipment decisions since 1975. 
In terms of the gross domestic product, which is a measuring stick usually used in determining these things and one which I note the Minister used to criticise the Labor Government's lack of input when he was the Opposition spokesman, the defence expenditure in 1973-74 was 2.61 per cent; in 1974-75, 2.68 per cent; in 1975-76, 2.6 per cent; in 1976-77, 2.65 per cent; and this year it is estimated at 2.63 per cent, allowing for the changes in monetary adjustments to the GDP as set out in the Budget. In other words, the average of the three Labor Government years was 2.63 per cent of GDP; the average of the first three coalition government years, in the present term, is 2.6 per cent. I use those figures because they were used in Opposition by the present Minister. They are different figures from the ones the Minister used and I think they prove beyond doubt that figures can tell one anything. 
The statement by the Minister indicates that a number of major programs are, to say the least, slipping. It casts some doubts on the Government's continued support of an aircraft carrier acquisition investigation. I note the Minister's words in the statement when he referred to the means of meeting the gap that will be created when HMAS  Melbourne  is phased out. That is different from statements which have been made in the past and, if I may say so, it is a more realistic statement. I have some concern, as I think have most people who think about defence equipment, at the replacement syndrome- the continuation of a form of weapons system because the weapons system which is becoming obsolete was in that form. Technological change is so extensive that weapons forms in use one year can become totally obsolete the next. I am not commenting on the carrier project at this stage. We will deal with that at a much later stage, I suggest; but at this stage it is at least arguable whether that is the proper and appropriate replacement for HMAS  Melbourne  when that vessel is phased out. 
The tactical fighter force program clearly has slipped back at least two years from its initial projection. I note that the Minister has stated that in the 1980s we will be able to benefit from the state of development of modern military aircraft technology. I repeat what I said when the Minister made a somewhat different statement earlier this year on the TFF program: Air to air capacity does not seem to be the most important factor for aircraft entering Australian service at this time. It is a desirable capacity, but I doubt whether it is a $500m priority in a restricted defence expenditure program. If, as is set out in the White Paper- I have seen no statement to contradict it- the aim of Australian defence is to protect the Australian continent from an unlikely but nevertheless possible incursion on to the Australian mainland and to exercise a role in the immediate area which would have a correlation to the defence of Australia, an air to air, land based fighter is not the weapons system that we ought to be looking at. Rather we should be looking at a weapons system which is capable of acting in a substantial capacity against ground based forces or surface shipping, which are the most likely offensive targets for which an Australian aircraft would be used. 
There is at least one aircraft on the list which meets that criterion. I do not want to comment on the list because at least one of the aircraft is in the developmental stage. It is still very much a potential rather than an actual aircraft. One has been wheeled out only in the last few weeks. I think that the only aircraft which meets the criterion set down a couple of years ago most likely will be midway through its effective life before any Australian deliveries could take place. It may be that it would not be a practical proposition to purchase such an aircraft at that time. I personally think that aircraft is most likely included in the list because of its price which is more attractive than the price for most aircraft. It is a rather unattractive aircraft if one has to pay for it. But that can be said about all the aircraft. 
The Minister's statement makes no mention of replacements for the Army's 5.5 inch guns which were due to be replaced by a 155 millimetre medium gun. Orders were supposed to have been placed in 1977. Those guns seem to have slipped right out of the defence program. The 105 millimetre field guns were due to be ordered this year. They appear to have disappeared. My understanding is that as few as six 5.5 guns are capable of service operation at any one time. If that is the case then the offensive and defensive capacity of the Army must be under some considerable threat because of its lack of an adequate weapon. The 105 millimetre gun is also reaching the end of its effective life. Whilst it can be kept in storage for long periods it cannot be significantly used and maintained indefinitely as an adequate weapons system. 
The underway replenishment ship and the mines countermeasures vessels have been mentioned. As far back as 1973 the Wessex helicopter was suggested by the Navy as unsuitable. A replacement program was, in fact, included in the Minister's statement last year. It does not appear in this year's program nor does it appear that funds are available for the replacement of those helicopters. They will be reaching the end of their lives unless something substantial is done to increase their lifespan. The Minister has indicated that $ 15m is to be made available for updating the Mirage aircraft. Apart from the statement made by the Minister earlier this year on the technical fighter force project, little or nothing has been heard of that up-date program. I think the House will welcome a statement by the Minister on the form of up-date it is intended to undertake for the Mirage aircraft and whether that will extend their life beyond 1985. The Minister indicated earlier this year that that date was the potential end of the effective life of the Mirage aircraft. 
A number of aspects in the defence area other than equipment and personnel ought to be discussed by the House in some detail. I note the Minister's statements about procurement and sniping from the Opposition. The facts are- I put these clearly to the Minister- that there is an urgent need for a review, similar to that which the Hope Commission carried out into the securities area, into the whole structure and operations of the Department of Defence. The cutting back of 6,000 civilian personnel within the Department may or may not have improved its efficiency. It may be that those changes which took place as a result of the Tange report and which have now been operational for several years need review by persons outside the Department. It is very difficult to see fault when a person looks in the mirror, irrespective of how selfeffacing that person may be. 
The Department of Defence was exempt from the Coombs report on the Public Service. It has not had an independent examination into its structure and operations since the Tange report. Substantially, that was a looking-in-the-mirror report by a person who I acknowledge is highly competent. I believe that what has been going on in the last few months- some of it malicious and some of it soundly based- indicates that a moral problem exists in that area. It will not be solved unless the Minister takes the initiative in this matter and that is his responsibility. Any criticism which takes place in this House has to be criticism of the Minister, not of the Department, because in this House the Minister accepts those responsibilities. I have not met anyone in the Department who was not dedicated or competent. I would say that about all the professional serving officers to whom I have spoken. That does not necessarily mean that there are not problems and it does not mean that those problems can be ignored. 
The Minister mentioned some cutback in computer availability based on the AuditorGeneral's reports which have been coming out regularly for a number of years. The computer problems within the Department of Defence require an independent inquiry and reassessment. They also require the expenditure by the Government of some funds in order to bring in persons who are up to date in computer management and programming so that those problems can be resolved. The whole efficiency and capacity of the Defence Force and of the Department of Defence could well rely on the response capabilities of its computer sections in this modern day and age. The Auditor-General's reports, which have appeared at least for the last four years, are subject to inquiry within this Parliament. They appear not to have been resolved. Only a passing reference was made in the Minister's statement to some reduction in capacity. I suggest that without increasing personnel but with a proper approach to modern management processes by bringing in a team capable of dealing with computer programs and of setting the computer section of the Department of Defence in proper order, there could be great savings in personnel, funds, equipment costs and in other related areas within the Department of Defence. If the problems are ignored they will grow and any saving in personnel will be lost by the costs of inefficiency. 
I deal only in passing with procurement. The Minister mentioned the process and he indicated in his speech that he was satisfied with that process. He and probably the officers who advise him are the only people I have come across to date in this country who are satisfied. The lead time on procurement is excessive. The Department and the procurement sections face serious problems in that they have to start a process which they sometimes have difficulty in completing in the time scale and which is necessary for the technology which they are seeking to procure. There are problems. I believe that they ought to be resolved by proper managerial inquiries into the process and by consultation with the people with whom the Department has to deal. There are complaints- and I think they are on the record- that a great number of people are concerned about the time the procurement processes take. We go through a farcical situation in order to meet the requirements which are laid down. Knowing that only one organisation can provide a particular weapons system or item, we still go through a long process which ultimately results in the Government paying a far higher price for the goods that we seek. That may be heresy but, nevertheless, it is true. 
Given the problems that the Minister has outlined in his budgetary statement, I wonder what is the justification for the maintenance of two Mirage squadrons in Malaysia which it was indicated in evidence in the Senate add $ 18m to the cost of defence. The maintenance of those squadrons in Malaysia was initially indicated to have a time scale which would enable the Malaysian Air Force to become competent and efficient with the aircraft which they had procured. Those aircraft are operational. I do not think anyone suggests that the Malaysian Air Force is not now capable of carrying out the role which was initially carried out by the Mirage squadrons. I have some suspicion that we may not have the capacity to house the aircraft or the squadrons in Australia, but that is a suspicion and not necessarily a statement of fact. I would be interested to know what value we are in fact obtaining from the expenditure of $ 18m. One of the problems that face defence in Australia at the moment is a loss of morale of a very significant magnitude. There is also a concern at the public level about defence. There is no significant defence capacity in Australia from the Cape York Peninsula to Perth. 
-No significant capacity. 
-I did not know that Amberley was north of the Cape York Peninsula. The Royal Australian Air Force has one aircraft, a DC3, stationed at Darwin and the Army has no real capacity at all to carry out any defensive or offensive operation. There are no amphibious vehicles in the whole of the Northern Territory, nor are there any helicopters in an area which is normally subject to extemely difficult operating conditions caused by water. This complete lack of capacity is coupled with tardiness in repairing or maintaining facilities in that area. I understand that the Air Force hangar which was blown away in Cyclone Tracy is due for replacement in 1979. The radar dish for the Darwin facility has still not been replaced and I think that it has about the same time scale for replacement. The Service homes in Darwin have not been properly repaired since Cyclone Tracy. Temporary repairs were carried out, but two-thirds of those houses are still in an unsatisfactory condition and it would appear that there is no program for those homes to be restored. 
I make one other point about Service conditions. I note the Minister's statement that reviews of salaries, et cetera, are taking place and are a continuing factor. I think that it is fair to say that a considerable number of reductions in Service gradings have taken place recently, some of them on at least doubtful premises and all of them accepted by the Minister. One other fact that concerns me greatly and, I think, should concern this House is the delay in providing pay at equal rates to female service personnel who were granted it some eight or nine months ago and have yet to be paid, I understand, because of delays in the Attorney-General's office. I think that the Government ought to look at this. It is an entitlement that female serving officers have and they ought not to be subjected to a delay of the order that has already taken place. Some of them will lose their old age pensions if they have to wait much longer because of the income they will receive on retirement in back payments of equal pay. If the Budget is any criteria, they will most likely suffer considerable additional taxation on that amount. 
This statement by the Minister has, I think, contributed more to the discussions on disarmament than to those on defence. I think that the Minister is a victim of the Government 's cost cutting exercises. I think that this statement follows a long history of conservative governments ' attitudes towards defence- a lot of talk and rhetoric and very little practical input. I remind the House of the period immediately before the Second World War when expenditures on defence and defence preparedness were consistently cut by conservative governments whilst the hawks in conservative governments marched around the country telling us how important and necessary defence preparedness was. This statement, the statement last year and the developments since 1976 are fairly clear indications that a similar situation is developing. 
One of the areas which is vital to any defence effort is our capacity to undertake research development and design of defence equipment and to maintain and to have an input into that equipment, given a defence emergency when those inputs are not available to us. The White Paper clearly sets out that one of the most important single factors about our defence is our capacity to provide technicians who understand, assess and can give the necessary advice to Service personnel who are not technically qualified in the use and the maximising of the effectiveness of modern weapon systems. I make that statement because the major cut in this Budget is in that area- 9.2 per cent drop in expenditure on development projects. Of the approximately 600 personnel who will be removed from the Public Service sector of the Department of Defence, in excess of 200 will go from the scientific research organisation at Salisbury. The total staff in that area is something less than 2,000, but over onethird of that number will go out of the technical and scientific areas where extremely long lead times in the development of skills exist and in which a greater input and output are absolutely essential if a defence effort of any magnitude is to be maintained within any country. 
The advantages that a modern industrial country with a high standard of living and education has over another country are in its technical capacity and its capacity to maximise the values of the inputs that have gone into the society. We are not gaining benefit from those inputs. We are in fact cutting back in those areas. The recent decision, which was forced on the Government because of delays in the development of the project, not to fit the Mulloka to our 
FFGs is an example of the fairly regular dismissal of Australian developed projects in our defence areas where those projects are equal to or better than those developed outside Australia. The Mulloka project is, I understand, about two years behind schedule. The third and last of the FFGs will in fact not come off the slipways in the United States until after the refitting of the five Daring class destroyers to which the Minister has already indicated the Mulloka will be fitted. There is something of a question mark about the time scale involved there. 
One of the reasons that the Mulloka 's development was delayed was, first of all, the allocation of an unsuitable ship, the  Yarra,  which had noise levels which made calibration and testing extremely difficult and the withdrawal of that ship for a considerable period during the testing of the weapons system. There are other problems, I understand, with the non-delivery by contractors of items up to specification. These are substantial question marks. I understand that this project is potentially one of the most important electronic defence systems to be developed in the world and could have an immense market potential if its final development capacity is achieved. The Minister made considerable play in his statement about the third FFG being ordered and he indicated that this would add to the destroyer fleet. The purchase of that vessel was in fact set out in the White Paper. The White Paper also indicated that the Government considered that a 12-destroyer fleet was required. This will not meet that requirement because the Minister has also announced that another vessel will be withdrawn from service at about the time the first of the FFGs comes into service. 
I want to make one other comment, and that relates to the escalation of costs of the frigates. I am concerned at reports that the company manufacturing those frigates is in some degree of financial difficulty. I also draw the attention of the House to the fact that of the two builders of these vessels in the United States one has carried out an economy program to cut out the effects of inflation successfully and the other has not. We have placed our second order with the other. Thus we are paying higher prices than would have been paid had the orders been placed elsewhere. The statement is an abdication of the White Paper and I believe that the House is entitled to acknowledge that. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Graham)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
When may I expect an answer to Question No. 1253 which first appeared on the Notice Paper on 25 May 1978. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 27 September 1 978: 
1 ) What orders does the Government Aircraft Factory have outstanding for the supply of Nomad aircraft. 
Has the Government any Nomad aircraft on order; if so, (a) how many, (b) what type and (c) when were the orders placed. ' 
3 ) Has he obtained the reasons for opposition to the use of the Nomad aircraft by the RAAF, Bureau of Customs and the Department of Transport; if so, what are these reasons. 
How many Nomad aircraft would be required to carry out the level of surveillance proposed in the statement by the Minister for Transport of the Government's policy on surveillance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
Which States have accepted the obligation, as the Minister has set out, to increase their funding for home help services to meet the dollar for dollar formula imposed by the Commonwealth. 
What action can the Commonwealth take to maintain these services in States where this obligation under the Government's federalism policies has not been accepted. 
Will the increased cost accrue to the users or local government bodies. 
-We are debating the estimates of the Department of Defence. Over some considerable period of time we have been debating the estimates of other departments. I reiterate a complaint that I made in an earlier debate, namely that members of the House of Representatives are not paid the same courtesies as senators with respect to departmental estimates. My comments in this respect do not apply to only one department. Senators are provided with a breakdown of the estimates of various departments which they can use as members of Estimates committees as well as for other purposes. Members of the House of Representatives in the main have to go and scrounge copies of this information from senators and I do not think that is an appropriate activity. I think this information, if required, should be made available to members of the House of Representatives. I am not suggesting that every member be sent a full set of explanatory notes on the estimates of every department. However, if a request is made, this information should be provided. 
I cannot agree with the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  that the situation is reasonable or that the estimates set out in this year's Budget represent anything other than a substantial long term reduction in Australia's defence capacity. I do not intend to go through the debate on the defence review that took place last night. However, I think there are a number of areas into which the White Paper projected activity but in which that activity has almost totally disappeared. Among the new projects for this year will be the ordering of an additional number of torpedoes for the Oberon class submarines. On the initial costs of the first ordernumbers were not mentioned last night- it would appear we get something between 25 and 30 new mark 48 torpedoes. Delivery dates have not been indicated, but my understanding is that the American production of these torpedoes is due to end in the financial year 1979 and that the first order that Australia placed is due for delivery in early 1979. 
The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  in answer to a question last week, indicated that the Mulloka sonar system would not be available for the three FFG frigates which are being constructed in the United States. I have to query that statement because the Minister also said he thought that the problems had been ironed out and that it would be possible for this sonar system to be installed during refits of our escort ships which are due to take place, according to my understanding, prior to the end of 1983. If that is correct it would appear that the system could be installed in at least the third of the FFG frigates on which construction is due to commence in about a month's time. I do not know whether a change in the order for these frigates to allow this type of sonar system to be installed is a cost factor or a technical factor, but I would certainly suggest that if it is possible to fit the system, it ought to be fitted to the third frigate. There would seem to be no justification for not fitting the system if it can be fitted to other vessels prior to the date of completion of the third frigate. 
The need to maintain and encourage technical and design capacity in respect of specialised weapons is important to Australia's defence. This capacity is basic to a capacity to utilise weapons. It is also basic to a capacity to maintain weapons during any significant emergency. The scientific and research organisation is suffering a fairly heavy beating because of staff cuts. The Minister last night indicated that civilian staff cuts were of the order of 6,000. The Minister said that this reduction had resulted in increased efficiency. I know of no evidence that would suggest that increased efficiency automatically results from reduced personnel. It may be that by increasing efficiency one can decrease the number of personnel required and that by a proper and systematic usage of personnel one can reduce the number of personnel required. I think it is simplistic in the extreme to suggest that merely by reducing the number of personnel one increases efficiency. There are all sorts of other considerations to be taken into account, one of which has not, at this stage, been taken into account in most of the cutbacks, that is, whether the reductions in personnel are in fact in the areas where surpluses may occur and whether the experiences and capacities that are needed for efficient operation are retained. 
I direct one other query to the Minister. Last night he made mention of the fact that one of the existing destroyers would be taken out of service late in 1979 in order to ensure that strains were not placed on the capacity of crews to man these particular ships. He made no mention of the crewing of the additional Oberon submarines. My understanding is that, of the four currently in service with the Navy, one at least has fairly regularly been tied up because of lack of a crew. It may be that additional crews have been trained, but that has not been mentioned and I would be interested to know whether we will be able to put to sea the whole of the six Oberon class submarines at any one time if it were required. I also acknowledge that it is the intention that two of them be under re-fit most times and that four of them be operational. 
I raise one other matter which I think is quite serious in consequence. Last night the Minister made reference to the F111 aircraft and he mentioned the alterations which are to be made to that aircraft in order to improve its capacity to arrive at a target and also to improve its capacity to deliver precision weapons systems. He also made a passing reference to the fact that the Government was examining whether such weapons would be acquired. Irrespective of current events, I acknowledge that the F111 is most likely the most capable weapons system in the world for arriving at a target or in the vicinity of a target. I say that so that there can be no query about what I am saying now. But that sort of capacity is only of value if one is then able to deliver a weapons system which is in line with the capacity of the aircraft. At the moment, that does not exist and there is no commitment in this year's Budget for the provision of such a weapons system. I understand that there are plans to examine the possibility of the Harpoon system being used for the F111s. There are delays because the United States Congress is holding up approval for the United States Air Force to use that system and there are design and cost factors involved, which it would be preferable for the United States to pick up rather than Australia. 
But the F111s have been in service for a considerable time. There are relatively cheap weapons systems which would enhance the capacity of that particular aircraft many times over. Even if, subsequently, an additional weapons system such as the Harpoon were to be placed on the aircraft, it would not render other systems obsolete. I think that, if we are going to spend money on the aircraft to improve its capacity to arrive at a target, it is not unreasonable that we ought also to be committing ourselves to providing the aircraft with weapons which would justify the additional capacity of finding targets.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  there are a number of other matters which I would like to raise, but time will not permit. Perhaps I will raise these matters later in the debate if time does permit. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)The  honourable member's time has expired. 
I rise to speak about one matter in particular which is affected by the incapability of the Attorney-General's Department to carry out the functions for which it is responsible. Last January, female members of the armed services were granted equal pay but they still have not been paid and my understanding is that they are not likely to be paid for some considerable time and will be lucky to be paid this financial year moneys which are due to them and on the payment of which decisions have been taken. The reason for the delays is that the Attorney-General's Department has as yet not found time to draft the necessary regulations to provide for the payment of equal pay to those female serving officers. 
I think the system is cumbersome. But that is not the responsibility of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  It is the responsibility of somebody else and it ought to be looked at very closely. The inability to draft regulations within a period of over nine months in respect of conditions of service which have been granted by the appropriate authorities and agreed to by the Government has resulted in what I think is an excessive delay. If the workload in the Department is such that the Department does not have the capacity to undertake this task or if more urgent tasks are continually placed on the draftsmen thus denying them the opportunity to undertake this particular job, some arrangements should be made whereby automatic or temporary alterations to the regulations can be made. It is a serious matter. I think that most people would object to waiting that period of time merely for a formal act to take place. The drafting and presenting of regulations have nothing to do with the decision-making process. It is a matter of putting words together in order to enable salaries to be paid to persons who have already been granted those salaries and who have an entitlement to receive them within a reasonable period of the granting of that salary change. In my opinion a delay of nine months is not reasonable or anything like reasonable. I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  to take up the matter with the Attorney-General in view of the very considerable dissatisfaction among female Service personnel- with very great justification, if I may say so. 
It is not my intention to raise other matters but I want to refer briefly to one other matter, that is, the question of legal aid. The decisions which have now been made by the Government in this area, following decisions made in the last three years, have restored the legal system to a position where one's legal rights are related directly to one 's capacity to meet the cost. I think that that is an unfortunate situation. It means that many thousands of low income earners in the community will be taken to the cleaners by unscrupulous operators. They will have no opportunity to take the necessary legal action which would enable them to obtain their legal rights from the financial institutions and those who, as part of their normal business practice- I say that quite clearly- defend unethical and sometimes illegal practices by forcing the maximum and excessive use of the courts so as to raise the cost of challenging those practices beyond what the ordinary person can reasonably risk in case he loses the legal point. I think that legal aid was an important step forward in the administration of justice in this country and in making the law available to all people on an equal basis. Its diminution, which now has almost reached the stage of destruction, places the law back where it was before legal aid became an important Commonwealth operation; that is, those who can afford the law can exploit those who cannot purely by the use of the courts and by raising the cost of litigation to levels at which most members of the community cannot afford the risk. 
I want to raise a matter which is of concern to a number of people in my electorate and, I am certain, to a number of people in other areas of Australia. With the change in the arrangements in the hospital and medical insurance funding and the abolition of standard Medibank, a number of areas in which there are Medibank centres which previously dealt with the standard Medibank and pensioner medical services have had their staffs placed in some jeopardy because they are rendered surplus by the changed arrangements. Also, the Government has made a decision that in future the Government's own section of the health scheme will be handled by the private medical insurance companies rather than through the Government's own network. This will be funded by a payment from the Government to the private funds. 
In Geelong some 25 people are employed at the moment in processing and collating claims under the standard Medibank arrangements. Their jobs are on the line. It appears that the Government has no intention of doing anything to give them the opportunity to become part of the Public Service. This change, taken for political reasons, is to wipe out employment which had developed and was thought to be permanent by those who entered that service. In some instances, and on an almost totally arbitrary basis, personnel from Medibank were given the opportunity to transfer directly into the Department of Health without any entry requirements as officers of the Commonwealth Public Service. That is to take place, and the offer is made only in one or two locations in each State. 
The other staff will be rendered surplus by the change and by the Government's decision to hand over the work done by these people to the private health funds under arrangements which will mean that contributors to the private health funds will, in fact, pay for the processing of a substantial part of the Government's section of the health scheme. The Government insisted on an arrangement with the private funds whereby a certain amount would be paid per registered government health fund recipient. That amount was considerably lower than the funds had claimed. The Government would be looking at that to achieve a reduction of costs. However, the costs will be borne by those people who are contributing to private funds; the cost of the noncontributors will be added to the contributions of the contributors so that the Government has successfully arrived at the situation whereby it has transferred out of its own revenue costs which will have to be borne by those people who do take out private insurance. They will be contributing also on behalf of those who do not take out private insurance. 
I am concerned that the Government has made no effort, and apparently is unconcerned, about the future of the people who are to be displaced in the Medibank offices around the country, a number of which are to be closed other than for private Medibank health insurance operations. These people were employees of the Commonwealth. Their jobs still exist, but they have been transferred by the Commonwealth for political and economic reasons to another source. I think it is time the Government made a clear statement on their future and also made it possible for them to apply for permanent positions in the Public Service where those positions are available. In the case of my electorate and the electorate of the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  where a similar situation exists, employment for females in clerical jobs is non-existent. We have about 1,000 registrations for each vacancy every month. I would suggest that the Government should look towards giving these people the opportunity to become permanent employees in the Public Service in the same way as other people within the scheme are being given that opportunity. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
-I ask the Minister for Defence: Under what circumstances are Australian servicemen permitted to serve with forces other than Australian or associated services when on leave from the Australian Defence Force. 
I  am surprised to hear Government supporters talking about the need to divert defence resources into various forms of industry in order to maintain the defence basis of those industries. That argument can be maintained in respect of a very broad area of industry. It is fair to say also that the industries we are talking about tonight are important not only for the defence capacity that they may engender but also for the basic skills and the capacity to do basic design, tooling and machining work that they provide. These are needs that a nation should be able to meet in its own right. That is really what this debate is all about. The Government's record on defence industries, if it cares to claim one, is not very good. Already it has moved against the shipbuilding industry which is vital to any suggestion of a defence capacity and has done so quite ruthlessly because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was unable to achieve an employment circumstance where employees would have been required to pay for any over-run on contracts whether it was caused by the employees, management incompetence or the failings of suppliers or other persons in the field. We already have considerable concern about, and certainly there is evidence of, a government intention to close the heavy engine works in Port Melbourne. This is the only operation of its kind in Australia and certainly would have very significant defence importance, but this is of no concern to the Government. 
The suggestion by the Government of a concern for defence industries is fairly hollow. I do not think that the Government takes it into consideration at all when assessing what action it will take on any given industry. I suggest that that is not a good policy. There are criteria relating to defence. When the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  makes that type of suggestion, I wonder what sort of response he would make to the fact - 
-It was a very political speech- that was its only purpose- and it carried very little substance. I suggest that the honourable member should look at what the Government is doing to the scientific and weapons research complements of our defence capacity in Salisbury, South Australia. Already over onethird of the employees there- the people who have the developmental and technological skills which would make the use of weapons possiblehave gone out of that industry. Under this year's Estimates, just over 600 public service positions are to be abolished within the defence area and one-third of those positions will be positions of technical skill without which no reasonable capacity for defence in an electronic and technological age such as we are in now can exist. The Government is padding the situation, is failing to deal with very serious weaknesses which are appearing in the defence area, and is applying staff ceilings to the skilled technical people who would carry the burden of this aspect of our defence capacity. These Bills will protect some  skills in Australia but they represent an ad hoc arrangement made without any serious planning by the Government of the basic skills necessary to enable a nation to perform in an economy which will depend on the nation's technological capacity in the future for its standard of living. The suggestion being made in this House that some industry justifies support out of the defence budget is very hollow because it is not something that is seriously contemplated or supported by the Government. The Government supports industries on an industry to industry basis and defence in that context is a secondary consideration. 
Technical skills, design capacity and the capacity to carry out the basic functions of industry are important and should be supported by all governments. The unfortunate fact is that a lot of lip service is being paid by the Government to this area but a very low level of performance is evident. There is also a tendency to underrate the importance of technical skills in all areas. Only two weeks ago in this House, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  suggested that certain people who prepared a report on the naval technical service in the Department of Defence were persons with a low level of skills or persons without skills. The Minister may have considered that to be a good and smart answer at the time but one of the persons involved in the preparation of that report was in charge of the engineering aspects of the procurement of the FFGs. If the Minister's statement to this House was correct, he should be asking himself why a person with the level of skill that he described in this place has a job of such importance. Of course, it did not suit the political climate at the time to do so. 
These Bills deal with an important section of industry. I think that all sides of the House support the maintenance of that section of industry. However, I do not think that the holierthanthou attitude that we have heard tonight advances the argument. The Government is dealing with it on an ad hoc basis. The White Paper on Manufacturing Industry has gone into limbo with the long-forgotten reports and there are serious problems throughout industry. There is a lack of knowledge and a lack of capacity to plan for the future because the Government is not able to put forward an overall policy or anything that approaches an overall policy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) When does he expect finalisation of the modernisation and standardisation of the Australian Armed Services Disciplinary Code. 
As the present Code has not been significantly altered since World War II, is completion of the review a matter of some urgency. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) Has he made a decision to locate an office of his Department in Geelong, Victoria. 
When is it anticipated that this decision will be announced. 
Has he discussed with the Minister for Foreign Affairs the possibility of the proposed office dealing with passport applications. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Has the Government deferred the Casey University Defence Academy for 12 months. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Is it intended to transfer additional Mirage aircraft from active use to storage; if so, how many aircraft are to be stored and for what period. 
How many Mirage aircraft are currently (a) in active use and (b) in storage. 
How many Mirage aircraft have been in storage during each of the last five years. 
What was the average annual flying time of Mirage aircraft stationed (a) within Australia and (b) in Malaysia during the last five years. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Has the proposed replacement for artillery over 30 years old been deferred indefinitely. 
If not, when will orders be placed. 
Has self-propelled artillery been considered; if so, with what result. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
Are approximately 25 litho-printers in the Army Survey Unit to be reclassified from level 6 to levels 5 and 4, a drop of $ 10 and $20 per week respectively below their existing rates. 
If so, will this mean an effective pay freeze for those concerned for several years. 
Are the skills involved in printing specialised military survey and mapping material considered to be significantly lower than in private industry where litho-printers in technical areas are paid at higher rates than those suggested for the Army Survey printers. 
Will this downgrading encourage a loss of skilled operatives to the Army. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) Has he made a decision to reverse the decision of the Parliament on the site for the new and permanent Parliament House. 
If so, when will the decision be conveyed to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) Will he review the decision to withdraw tuberculosis pension rights from ex-servicemen. 
What is the estimated cost of so doing. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 27 September, 1 978: 
1 ) What is the extent of the delays in his Department carrying out works at the Army Medical Malaria Research Unit, Ingleburn, N.S.W. 
What was the delay between the authorisation of this work and its commencement. 
What is the anticipated completion date. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that an inferior and more expensive United States sonar system, SQS 56, supplied by a US Company Raytheon will be installed in the Australian frigates instead of the Mulloka system. 
If so, when was the decision taken to award the sonar contract to Raytheon. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Is the United States SQS 56 sonar system more expensive than the Mulloka system. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Why has the Mulloka sonar system not been completed in time for installation on the first 3 FFG frigates. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Is it a fact that certain technical problems with the Mulloka sonar system have not been solved because of lack of funding, brought about by cuts in the annual Defence Department budget since 1976. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Is it a fact that $2m was required to solve technical problems and that, once solved, the Mulloka sonar system will be the best of its kind in the world. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Is it a fact that the Mulloka sonar system has the potential to be a big dollar earner for Australia when exported to navies which operate in similar climatic conditions to the RAN, and that the successful development of the system would be a considerable and much-needed boost to the international reputation of Australian defence scientists who are frustrated and demoralised by the lack of Government support for Australian scientific developments in the defence area. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Is it a fact that the Government has refused on 2 occasions, specific requests by the Department of Defence for funds to complete the Mulloka project. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Is it a fact that, of 600 Defence Depanment personnel who will be dismissed in the next 12 months because of Federal Government budget cutbacks, by far the greater number of this 600 will be sacked at the Defence Science and Technology Organisation at Salisbury, South Australia. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
What effect will the staff cutbacks at the Defence Science and Technology Organisation have on the development effort going into the Mulloka sonar system at the present time. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
1 ) Which foreign owned companies or corporations have won contracts to develop pan or pans of the Mulloka sonar system. 
On which dates were these contracts awarded. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Which Australian owned companies or corporations have won contracts to develop pan or parts of the Mulloka sonar system. 
On what dates were these contracts awarded. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1 978: 
What was the value of contracts awarded to 
foreign owned companies or corporations; and 
Australian owned companies or corporations for work performed on the Mulloka project. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Does the United States computer giant Honeywell have any interest in or connection with the Mulloka project. 
) If so, what is the nature of that interest. 
3 ) Is the interest in any way a proprietary one. 
Have any rights been assigned to the Honeywell Corporation or any other foreign owned company to develop, manufacture or exploit for profit in any way the Mulloka system, or part of this system. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Is it a fact that contract development work performed by the Honeywell Corporation has on 3 occasions been rejected by the Defence Science and Technology Organisation as unsatisfactory, and that these delays have seriously retarded the successful completion ofthe Mulloka project. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
What periods have elapsed since Honeywell was first commissioned to perform research or development work on any aspect of the Mulloka system and the time that this work was completed and presented to the Defence Science and Technology Organisation, Salisbury SA. 
On what dates was this work due to be completed. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Can he say whether there is any corporate or working relationship, or any commercial arrangement of any sort, which might exist between Honeywell and Raytheon, the suppliers of the SQS 56 system which is now to be installed in 3 Australian frigates. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1 978: 
Has he or his Department investigated any possible connection between the delays connected with Honeywell's work on the Mulloka system and the awarding of a contract to Raytheon to supply the SQS 56 Sonar System to 3 Australian frigates. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Will he guarantee that under no circumstances will development rights for the Mulloka project or any part of the project be sold or leased to a foreign power. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Has he or his Department received any offer, or have any overtures been made to his Department by Honeywell or any other foreign owned corporation regarding total or part acquisition of the Mulloka project. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
What is the cost of the three SQS 56 sonar systems to be installed in the three Australian FFG frigates. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
What is the cost of any ongoing equipment provision or technical service contract signed in connection with installation of SQS 56 sonar systems in the 3 frigates by Raytheon. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
What vessels were made available for testing the Mulloka system and for what periods. 
Were complaints received indicating that HMAS  Yarra  was not suitable. 
Was HMAS  Yarra  tied up for very significant periods during development testing. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
What is the total sum expended on the Mulloka sonar system to date. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
How many Defence Department personnel, including the Defence Science and Technology Organisation staff, were engaged on the Mulloka sonar system project during the years: 
1974-75; 
1975-76; 
1976-77; and 
1977-78. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Is it a fact that the United States SQS 56 sonar system is considered by international defence experts to be less efficient than the Mulloka system and not as well suited to Australian climatic conditions. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
What is the estimated cost to revenue of the decision to drop the proposed means test on family allowances (a) in its original form and (b) as subsequently proposed at $20 per week. 
I raise a matter which is of some concern and which the Government ought to clear up fairly quickly. I have noted during the last few days that the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  has been reported to have made certain remarks in Japan about the future development of the Australian car industry. I also have noted that he has made remarks on the same subject suggesting that changes in the approach of Australian vehicle manufacturing companies and the components industry in Australia had to be undertaken in the near future. 
The question that I raise is that this industry is one which has been subject over a fairly long period of time to considerable change in the mode under which it operates. Over the last six or seven years there have been almost continuous discussions over the future way in which the car industry would operate. At or towards the end of 1975, and reaffirmed in 1976, certain operating plans were laid down. Basically the plans of both the Liberal and the Labor governments were the same and supposedly they were to apply for eight to 10 years. The Minister is now creating uncertainty about the future of this industry, which is a long term planning industry, by making statements in Japan. Obviously he had had discussions with the Japanese car manufacturers and was repaying their hospitality and returning compliments by agreeing with their complaints about Japanese access to the Australian market. 
The situation that concerns me is that long term decisions on investment in plant and manufacturing design and other aspects of the industry are due to be made in Australia in the very near future. Statements such as the Minister's that indicate incorrectly that the Government is planning to interfere with the long term plans and bring the whole industry back into an uncertain and negotiated situation in which new plans may be devised or new approaches brought into operation will not do the industry or the stability of employment in the industry any good. 
I think the seriousness with which the Government looked on the situation in this industry earlier this year is reflected in the fact that it made decisions relating to sales tax in the Budget which are before the House and to which I will not refer. The industry appears to have picked up somewhat although I think that may be a temporary aberration. Once the effects of the sales tax cuts are absorbed by the reduction which will obviously take place in trade-in values and the actual cost to the consumer of cars returns to normal, that bloom might fade.. My concern is that the Minister is bringing uncertainty into the long term future of the industry. He is making suggestions without putting forward proposals or indicating that the Government intends to do anything at all. That can only have the effect of either deferring decisions under discussion or likely to be taken by the industry in the near future or causing the companies to hold off preliminary planning for future development of their Australian components. I think that the Minister's suggestions were made as a result of discussions and reactions to those discussions rather than as a reflection of Government policy. 
I hope that the Minister will, if necessary, make a statement to the Parliament on what the Government's intentions are regarding the plans and components industry relating to the motor industry. This industry is one of the bigger employers. It is most likely the biggest employer in private industry in Australia. Its condition certainly has major consequences for South Australia and also Victoria. Any uncertainty which is engendered because of Ministers making statements which may or may not have substance but which certainly at this stage do not reflect what has been Government policy over the last two years does no good to any one. This matter ought to be cleared up quickly and decisively so that the industry knows exactly where it stands. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to problems created for employees of his Department posted overseas, by changes in the arrangements for duty free entry of a private vehicle. 
If so, is it a fact that teachers at Butterworth who would have met the requirements for duty free vehicle entry at the time of completion of their tour of duty this year, will now be unable to meet the new criteria which operates in retrospect against persons who in good faith have acted on the basis of import rules then operative. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) Do any plans exist for modernisation of the Army hospital unit at Ingleburn, NSW. 
2 ) Is it a fact that existing structures are unsuitable for the most efficient use of modern equipment. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 September, 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government accepted the report of the Regular Services Salary Review Board. 
If so, does this mean that printers employed by the Army Survey Unit will have their pay reduced. 
Are most of these affected by the reduction located at Bendigo, Victoria. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 September 1 978: 
How long has the position of Defence Force Ombudsman been vacant. 
Does the Government intend to make an appointment to this position in the near future. 
Is the low level of usage of this office a matter of concern. 
Are servicemen concerned at possible repercussions from making complaints outside their particular service administrative and disciplinary codes. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Are all aircraft named in his most recent statement on the Tactical Fighter Force Program still under active consideration. 
) If not, which aircraft have been dropped. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Has the Government taken a decision to defer further consideration of the choice of an aircraft under the Tactical Fighter Force Program. 
If so, what is the nature and likely duration of the delay. 
What is the timetable now for completion of the various stages of the T.F.F. Program. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1 978: 
Has the upgrading of the Mirage III aircraft announced by him been dropped. 
Did he indicate that with the upgrading the Mirage would stay in service until 1 985. 
Has he or his Department now stated that the Mirage without the upgrade program will remain in service until 1989. 
Is 1989 beyond the aircraft's estimated frame life. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) How many persons are currently employed at the Bendigo Ordnance Factory. 
What is the level of staff ceilings to be applied to the factory. 
How many persons were employed at the factory during (a) 1977,(b) 1976 and (c) 1975. 

 -Mr Speaker, I want to raise a query relating to your statement about the broadcast of parliamentary proceedings. I note that one ABC station normally carries the broadcast of parliamentary proceedings. My understanding is that the broadcast of parliamentary proceedings under the Parliamentary Proceedings Broadcasting Act is a priority of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The point I raise is that whilst the station that regularly would broadcast the proceedings of the Parliament is not functioning during the period in which the proceedings normally would be broadcast the ABC is still programming normal programs on its other stations and thus not complying with the legislation in that respect. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
What alternative work programs have been examined for the Bendigo Ordnance Factory. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 October 1 978: 
Did he say in answer to a question without notice on 18 October 1978 concerning a report relating to the Naval Technical Services Division of his Depanment that one of the signatories to the report had 5 levels of officers over him, the second, 9 and the third, 13 levels of officers over him. 
If so, how many of the officers occupying those higher levels (a) have technical skills and qualifications equal to the officers who prepared the report, (b) are professionally trained civilian engineers and (c) are military trained or serving engineers. 
Does his answer to the question indicate that rank and seniority are considered as acceptable measures of technical competence. 
Has he discussed the contents of the report with any of the authors. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
Did he state, as reported in the  Age  of 17 October 1978, that some of the matters dealt with in the Naval Technical Services Review have been acted upon. 
If so, which are those matters. 
If not, was he misreported. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) Have the recommendations of the report of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration been studied for relevance to the Department of Defence. 
) If so, at what level and with what result. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) Was a committee investigation similar to that into the Naval Technical Services Division undertaken into the Naval Design Division. 
) If so, has the committee reported. 
Was an interim report into the Naval Design Division submitted; if so, when. 
Were copies of either the report or interim report classified; if so, why. 
Who constituted the committee and what were the qualifications and designations of its members. 
Will he make available a copy of any report on the Naval Design Division. 
-I raise a matter which is of serious consequence to the Parliament.  Mr Speaker,  in view of answers given at Question Time, I ask whether you will investigate why an undertaking was given by the Department of Foreign Affairs to the Soviet Union that no members of the Joint Foreign Affairs and Defence Sub-Committee on Human Rights in the Soviet Union would be included in any parliamentary delegation to the Soviet Union. I can vouch for this.  Mr Speaker,  I ask you, as the person who is charged with the protection of the members of this House, to investigate the matter and to ensure that no such undertakings are given to any foreign country on any matter. It is an extremely serious matter. 
-I want to deal briefly with the problem which the Opposition faces with the introduction of this type of legislation. If a separate amending Bill were introduced, the Opposition would have an adequate period to study the Bill, consider its clauses, make a decision on those clauses and come back to the Parliament to indicate its attitude. That is not possible with amendments which are not required to be circulated in the usual manner and which are not publicly available prior to their introduction into the House except by private arrangement. They are certainly not available generally to members of the Opposition for discussion. The Parliament has adopted a procedure which would enable this type of amendment to be considered adequately. The Government should be prepared to adopt that procedure. 
It would be possible without greatly delaying the legislation for the amendments and the Committee stage of the Bill to be examined by a Legislation Committee. The 43 amendments could be taken into consideration. On this occasion I am fairly certain that that proposition is not practicable, but I believe that in future when the Government intends, in effect, to introduce a new piece of legislation using the vehicle of multiple amendments, that practice ought to be adopted. Members of the Opposition should be supplied with copies of the amendments sufficiently in advance so that they can take advice on them and also make a decision upon them. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Has the Bendigo Ordnance Factory been placed on a stand-by basis. 
Have severe staff ceilings been applied to the factory. 
Are similar restrictions being applied to other Ordnance Factories. 
Are there any orders which could be met by utilisation of the Bendigo facilities. 
Are employment opportunities at the factory important to the Bendigo area. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
1 ) Have eight to 15 apprentices at the Bendigo Ordnance Factory been informed by the management of the plant that they could face dismissal during 1979. 
Are suitable conditions for adequate apprentice training deteriorating because of the general lack of work and the consequent reduction in work experience in a diversity of practical skills. 
-After listening to members opposite for four years talking about the evils of tariff cuts and the evils of cuts in quotas, it is interesting to find a member who has suddenly found a reason why he would advocate the abolition of tariffs, the abolition of quotas and the increases in income tax. The realities, of course, are that quotas are only a significant form of protection when on low volume items and can readily be borne by the revenue. Tariffs are a quite different form of protection and are, with quotas, the only form of protection available on large quantity items and likely mass import items from countries with different wage structures. The fact of the situation relative to the car industry and other industries is that, unlike what the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  has said, employees in that industry do not welcome unemployment and are not seeking unemployment as he would seem to suggest. 
The second point is that the present plans which have allowed the car manufacturing firms in Australia to expand their operations to meet market demands were criticised by members on his side of the House at the time that they were adopted. The reason why the car firms were unable to meet that market situation at a much earlier stage was that the plans evolved in the 1960s locked the car firms into a 95 per cent manufacturers' plan and gave them practically no room to manoeuvre; they were undercut by Japanese imports during that period. The honourable member should distribute his speech amongst all car workers in his electorate. I think it would be very welcome to his political opponents because it is a speech which indicates a complete lack of any rational knowledge of industry in Australia, the economic realities of protection or otherwise. One matter concerning the Bill which I would mention is that the exclusion of in-house components from bounty provisions can have the effect of moving existing manufactured components from an in-house situation to an external supplier. The competitive edge given to an external supplier with the loss of employment of people in one region can move that em.ployment to another contract supplier or even importers because of disadvantages which could be created by a discriminatory bounty where the relative costs and operations are similar. I draw that to the Minister's attention because I think that part of the Bill could have the effect of disrupting existing employment with no advantage to the industry. 
-I will delay the House for only about one minute. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  wants to respond on behalf of the Opposition members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. The matters I want to raise are directly related, although not directly arising out of, to the ministerial statement of the Minister for Construction and Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr 
McLeay). The first matter I raise is the failure of the Minister to mention- I do not know whether the report mentions it- the continuing discrimination against Australian Citizen Military Forces servicemen who served in theatres of war within Australia in the Second World War and who are excluded from benefits under this Act. Persons who served outside Australia and who did not necessarily face the same risks have Defence Service loans available to them. 
Well, prescribed areas, but those people are still excluded. Persons who in fact were under enemy attack on the mainland of Australia are excluded from benefits under this Act. They are not excluded from benefits under other Acts which cover ex-servicemen. I make that point briefly. I hope that the Minister will take up the matter. I have already had correspondence about it either with him or with the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann). 
The other matter I raise is equally related to the conditions of service of servicemen, and I think it relates directly to the responsibilities of the Minister. I draw his attention to the almost total lack of adequate maintenance of defence homes as opposed to Defence Service homes. I draw specific attention to the defence homes in Darwin which were damaged during cyclone Tracy. Of those damaged two-thirds still have not been repaired and Darwin is presently in the fourth wet season since the cyclone struck. I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that it is an unsatisfactory situation that defence personnel in Darwin are required to live in houses which, on the basis of the standards laid down for civilian housing in that area, are sub-standard. I think it is time that permanent repairs were undertaken to those houses. Fairly constantly I receive complaints about the almost total lack of maintenance to defence houses or the proper upkeep of those houses. Thus they have lost value as an asset to the Government because of neglect in almost every part of Australia. They are the remarks I wanted to make. I hope that the Minister takes them into account. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
How many war service pensioners are receiving compensation for an accepted disability of hypertension and/or cerebral vascular accident not related to brain tumour or kidney dysfunction. 
Are there any war service pensioners receiving compensation for the disability referred to in pan ( 1 ), not related to brain tumour or kidney dysfunction. 
Are there any war service pensioners receiving compensation for this disability which has been accepted as stress related. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 28 September 1978: 
Has the National Capital Development Commission carried out a survey of the structural condition of Parliament House. 
Have estimates been prepared of the practicability and cost of making substantial internal changes to the building. 
Has an investigation been made of the alterations necessary to enable effective security arrangements to be implemented. 
Will he make available to the Parliament details of any studies. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
What contribution is made to Australian defence preparedness by school cadets. 
Is it appropriate that cadets are a charge against the Department of Defence vote. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) Is the present structure of the Naval Technical Services Division derived from recommendations made in a review report by Admiral Callaghan, R. N. and  Mr A.  Kent in 1 968. 
Did the same report recommend regular reviews of the Division's operation, organisation and technical capacity. 
Have any subsequent reviews taken place. If so, by whom and when were the reports received. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1 978: 
Does the Callaghan-Kent recommendation still constitute a satisfactory structural basis for the Naval Technical Services Division. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1 978: 
What is the current staff level of the naval Technical Services Division. 
How many levels of job classification exist within the Division. 
How many classification levels are above that of the Chief of Naval Technical Services in the Defence structure. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1 978: 
How many qualified (a) civilian and (b) service engineers are employed in the Naval Technical Services Division. 
How many positions in the Division require engineering qualifications. 
What criteria is applied in determining suitability for appointment to technician grade positions in the Division. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
1 ) Have staff ceilings been applied to technical personnel in the Naval Technical Services Division. 
Where total technical staff has been reduced, have the positions to become redundant been selected, or have reductions been determined on an individual personnel basis. 
Are ceilings applied without consideration of technical capacity and structural effectiveness, especially in small project terms. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 12 October 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to claims made on behalf of  Mr Alan  J. Robinson of Brisbane, that negotiations with the Government in respect of the Total Australian Surveillance System are excessively protracted and could lead to the system being sold outside Australia. 
) Was the TASS made available to the Government free of charge for development 
3 ) Has the Government developed a similar system. 
Has  Mr Robinson  sought a joint development arrangement with the Government. 
5) If so, have these offers now been withdrawn. 
What is the current position concerning  Mr Robinson's  TASS. 
Is the Government interested in its future development. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 26 October 1978: 
Have differences between the Naval Technical Services Division and the Purchasing Division of the Department of Administrative Services on policy and purchasing procedure become a cause for friction. 
If so, what action has been taken to remedy the problem. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) What positions were held by  Mr W.  Wodrow,  Mr J.  B. James and  Mr W.  G. Hogan in the Naval Technical Services Division on 1 May 1977. 
What positions did each of these officers hold on 1 October 1978. 
To what projects were each of the above officers assigned and what were their positions on the projects as at 1 October 1978. 
What technical experience and qualifications does each officer possess. 
Have any of these officers been threatened with reprisals for having been party to the report on the operation of the Division. 
Do all officers occupying higher level positions have similar or superior technical qualifications and experience. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1978: 
1 ) Has bis attention been drawn to statements made by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  at public hearings in Darwin of the sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence concerning briefings given to the sub-committee at Pine Gap. 
If so, why was the sub-committee denied adequate and proper briefings. 
Is it a fact that the contents of briefings at Pine Gap have not altered in substance for 6 years. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) Is the cost of maintaining Mirage aircraft and support facilities in Malaysia $18m more than would be the case if the aircraft were relocated in Australia. 
If so, can this cost be justified as a priority defence commitment 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 5 November 1 978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that uniformed instructors attached to cadet units are subject to the control and direction of their respective branch of the Defence Force. 
If so, are these instructors paid an allowance for their duties. 
3 ) If they are paid an allowance is it subject to income tax as a second job. 
If it is subject to income tax why are these instructors treated on a different basis to other part time members of the Defence Force. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 1 9 September 1 978: 
Has he indicated that a United Kingdom citizen who was accepted for service pension in April 1976, and, on review, was declared ineligible in 1977, is being asked to refund the pension paid to him for 18 months. 
Has his attention been drawn to the fact that on being granted a service pension the recipient did not pursue other forms of benefit to which he was entitled. 
If so, will this result in this person being effectively deprived of .18 months' benefit because of an assessment error in his Depanment. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 June 1978: 
What aircraft other than the Boeing 727/100 were considered for addition to the VIP Fleet. 
What is the estimated cost of converting a 727/100 aircraft to executive configuration. 
Will special communications equipment be fitted to these aircraft. 
Will modifications be made to provide additional range. 
Does the Boeing company market a version of its smaller 737/100, 200 and 300 series aircraft in an executive configuration. 
Do the aircraft referred to in part (S) have a greater range than the 727/100 and special engine failure safety factors for overwater travel. 
Has the 727/100 aircraft any military role. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. Has the Government considered or agreed to a forward capital equipment program of $ 1,400m for the next five years? Does that amount represent a substantial reduction in real terms and equipment terms on the projected amount of $ 1,200m as set out in the Australian Defence Statement 1976? If so, will the Minister inform the House at his earliest convenience of the proposed capital equipment program for the five years which would be included in the $ 1,400m which he is seeking and which, I understand, he has achieved? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to raise a matter which concerns members of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on11 October1978: 
Is it intended to maintain in service the total force of Leopard tanks. 
What is the fuel allotment for training purposes per tank and how many kilometres of training will that allow per month. 
What quantity of (a) practice and (b) live ammunition is allowed for training purposes per tank. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 October 1978: 
1 ) What development projects are currently being undertaken at the Defence Science and Technology Organisation, Salisbury, South Australia. 
How long has each project been under development. 
What is the estimated completion date for each project. 
Have these projects been approved or considered by the defence equipment procurement committees. 
I move: 
That a select committee be established to determine and make recommendations for the optimum cost efficient method of compensating people for the additional costs incurred from residence in non-metropolitan areas. 
This is not a definitive motion which is seeking action or an assertion by the House. It is a motion which seeks to have the House carry out an investigation into a matter which has been a political football for as long as I have been a member of Parliament and probably for as long as the Parliament has existed. It is an area in which the major consideration usually has been what is in it for the governing party or, where the Opposition is opposing or proposing, what is in it politically. As everyone in this House knows, and it is often repeated, Australia is a country comprised substantially of two or three segments. There are very sizable urban populations which have the benefits of most of the services but often not at the levels or in the form which they desire them. Nevertheless, they receive most of the services which any community reasonably expects. Obviously our opinions would differ on the way in which those services are provided and on the priorities given, and where State governments are involved there also would be differences in the competence of those governments to deliver. But, generally, the major urban communities are relatively well serviced with faculties and community back-up support. That level of service was advanced considerably during the three years of the Labor Government. It has regressed somewhat since. 
There is a second segment of the population living in provincial cities and in the closer settled rural areas and it too has reasonable access to facilities, although its access is not as good. There is yet another segment of the population- a very large slice of the country- but it is not necessarily to be designated 'outback' because people can be quite isolated in areas not so far away from the major population centres, especially if they lack the financial and physical capacity to move about freely, and do not have the wherewithal to afford motor cars, public transport and all the other facilities. This is a large section of the community which is disadvantaged and it is disadvantaged in many ways. It does not have general access to community faculties, health facilities, education facilities and basic advice facilities which are readily available to other sections of the community. We as a nation have not advanced sufficiently to provide them with even reasonable access to information on what governments do and do not provide. 
One of the great problems in our community is that when governments decide to do something they badly advise the people who deliver the services or the people who can recommend where the delivery of those services should be. It is only in recent years, for instance, that this Parliament decided that its members who represent large electorates ought to have some faculties in addition to those enjoyed by members in closely settled areas in order to move about their electorates and have contact with their electors. Members of parliament do not necessarily deliver government services or carry out any sort of education program, and they should not be expected to do so but the total lack of that sort of facility does exist and will continue to exist unless some new approach is taken. 
The proposal is for a parliamentary committee to inquire into the best means of providing some assistance. I say advisedly and from the Opposition side that it is not possible for any government, no matter what is its will, to provide equality of opportunity or equality of access. That is a physical and financial impossibility and I think that all members of this House would acknowledge it. A parliamentary committee has advantages which do not exist with other forms of inquiry. Firstly, a parliamentary committee, being an all party committee, is likely to come up with solutions which are not only possible within the political spectrum but also deliverable by governments. 
Admittedly, parliamentary committees may come up with a little more than the Treasurer may like. Nevertheless, they are likely to be solutions which are practical in the political delivery context. Interdepartmental committees and commissions, especially when they are asked to examine matters which have emotional and political content, regularly come up with decisions which embarrass the Government to whom they are presented. This is possibly because their reports are factual but, nevertheless, because they have no application to the political possibilities involved they can be thrown out. Good or bad recommendations could be included in a report but because of some highlighted segment in the report it may be unacceptable to a government or a political party. 
We might remember what happened to the Vernon report on the economy in the early 1960s. It was a very substantial document but it was thrown out completely because it was politically unacceptable to the Prime Minister of the day. We might also take account of what happened to the Royal Commission on Human Relationships whose report was a very substantial document. It involved thousands of hours of work by well-qualified and competent people. On one or two recommendations out of several hundred, that report has been totally destroyed because it was politically unacceptable. I am proposing that in this case we look at the best means of delivery of assistance in these areas. I do not personally think that tax concessions are necessarily the way to provide assistance. I am not sure that ad hoc measures to bring about a solution to the particular need of a pressure group or a very vocal group are necessarily the best way to provide services. Some people have better access to the media, are better lobbyists and, in general, can exert great pressure which is often well in excess of the priority of that segment in the community. 
I think any committee would have to look at the effects of general implementation of a government policy, necessary as it may be, when that general implementation has regional or sectional benefit and creates increased costs or difficulties that ought not to be incurred by other sections of the community. I use one example. Emission controls on motor vehicles are needed only in the inner urban areas of Melbourne and Sydney. However, they are applied generally because it would be a practical impossibility to have other than uniform emission controls on vehicles. Persons who operate motor vehicles in non-urban areas, even domestic local transport operators, consume fuel at a rate far in excess of that which is necessary in the area in which they operate. They incur additional costs which are passed on throughout their community, not because of any need in their area for emission control, not because it is of general benefit to the community in which they operate but because a problem which is localised to possibly 10 square miles of the Australian continent- it is not much more at this stage- is solved by a general application of legislation over the whole nation, possibly for sound reasons. 
It is difficult to imagine how solutions to some of these problems can be arrived at but at least assistance can be given. The problem of a rural child with some ability to a low income parent seeking to fulfil the child's educational capabilities is an example of extreme hardship. A child in an area with proximity to academic institutions, a fully equipped primary school, a high school with the necessary course structure and equipment, is able to be educated in an orderly manner without disruption to family life. Of more consequence is the problem of a rural child competing with others in a tertiary institution. The child who has to live away from home will almost certainly have to undertake some form of extra curricula activity to increase his income. The tertiary allowance guidelines take no cognisance of a child living away from home except that the means test is extended upwards slightly. They do not allow the full amount- it is fairly low in any case- to be paid at a higher level of income. 
Any person in this House who considers that it is a reasonable economic proposition for a family with an income between $8,000 and $9,000 a year with a reducing level of assistance to maintain a child, possibly several thousands miles away from home, is either a fool or has never tried to keep a person aged 20 years or 2 1 years in reasonable circumstances. The child may not be disadvantaged because he is living away from home. It would depend on his application and his ability to study. However, he is disadvantaged by the hours he is forced to spend on additional workloads outside his studies which other children can spend in study and revision. I am not saying that the additional work will not benefit the child but he is disadvantaged when compared with his fellow students. 
A broad range of assistance is provided in various areas. It is nowhere near as broad as I had thought before I started looking at what is actually provided. Very little assistance is planned or comprehensive. For instance, in the medical field there is a patient's travelling allowance. There are some decentralised pathology services. There is assistance to the Flying Doctor networks where they operate. There is no serious attempt to provide a national medical or dental service which will, on a regular basis, move into isolated areas where the normal medical services, even of a doctor, do not exist. In the education area- I realise that this is often a State problem- we have not seriously sought to tackle the problems of a different form and structure of education for children living in remote areas. 
I made the point previously that I do not necessarily see tax concessions as a solution to the problem. There should be some other form of assistance which may or may not be taxable but which takes account of the incomes of the people concerned. Tax concessions have the effect that they benefit those on higher incomes more than those on lower incomes. More importantly, they are of no benefit to those on the lowest incomes who do not pay tax. 
Obviously zone allowances are one means which a committee should look at. How they are granted is also something which the committee should examine. I think that, if any assistance is to be given to people in disadvantaged circumstances living outside the capital cities, that assistance has to be delivered on the basis that it benefits in fact the people who are resident in those areas and not other people- as many forms of assistance do- and that it will provide some compensation for the lack of services normally provided by governments at government cost and the penalties which are applied in those areas. 
I go back to fuel and the emission controls which I mentioned. They are a glaring example of a disadvantage applied to a section of the community for less than satisfactory reasons. I think it is reasonable to say that the changes in the crude oil excise and the charging arrangements for crude oil were undertaken for specific government purposes. They were said to be to encourage oil exploration. The result of those changes- we can argue the merits of them- is to disadvantage disproportionately those people whose cost structures are affected by the cost of fuel oil to an extent greater than those of the average person in the community. The further one is from the capital cities- fuel equalisation taken into consideration or otherwise- the higher one's transport costs will be and the more they are likely to be affected by the cost of fuel for the provision of transport. They are just a basic cost item which has a multiplier effect according to the distance which one has to convey goods. Government policies in this area are not invoked for general social purposes but, ostensibly, to bring about a desired set of circumstances in the minerals area. But the cost is borne disproportionately in relation to the distance which goods have to be transported and the need to provide basic transport. Telephones are another area in which there is a disproportionate charge. 
Another point I want' to make is that no one should take any notice at all of the basic statistics on family incomes and family expenditures relevant to these types of items. The figures of the Commonwealth Statistician for average expenditures of families in remote areas show that they spend less on petrol and telephones than people in urban areas. There is a simple explanation for that: Fewer people in rural areas have telephones; therefore the number of telephones related to the average incomes is considerably lower. Fuel costs in remote areas in many cases are borne not on a private basis but on a business, commercial basis. The figures given by the 
Statistician I think are misleading- not deliberately so. They may well be accurate but one must apply oneself to the circumstances in which the costs are incurred. In the metropolitan areas of Australia I would think that the telephone per house figure is getting close to 70 per cent I doubt whether it is 30 per cent in the non urban areas and, in the total population of non urban areas, it is likely to be nearer to 20 per cent. The figures are divided to arrive at an average which has no relationship whatsoever to the true position. A similar situation exists with fuel costs. 
I believe that the House should adopt the motion. It involves a subject matter in which this Parliament should interest itself and seek to bring about determinations. It is an area in which political motivation and ability to apply pressure has had more force over the whole period of parliamentary government than the practical application of solutions. Committees other than of the Parliament are unlikely to bring down solutions which are acceptable to governments or acceptable politically. The Parliament really is the only body which properly could carry out such an inquiry and bring down recommendations with a chance of acceptance. 
It is unusual at this time for the Parliament to be debating a statement such as it is now debating. It is very much an Address-in-Reply debate without the Governor-General having participated. That, for this Parliament, may be a benefit. I say that without any disrespect to the present GovernorGeneral. In a wide ranging, highly political and substantially inaccurate speech, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has sought to convey to the people of Australia an impression which I think it is at least doubtful that anyone privately would accept as having great relevance to existing conditions. The Prime Minister has set out the Government's positions on foreign affairs, the Government's assertions on defence and the economy and, as has been the case on almost every major occasion when the Prime Minister has spoken on these matters, he has told the nation that recovery is just around the corner. 
All the evidence was that recovery had started in the first half of 1976. Despite the Prime Minister's assertions- if one picks figures which are unrelated and applies them- the rate of inflation in the last quarter of the Labor Government was 2.4 per cent, based on official figures. The rate in the first quarter of the term of the present Government and every quarter since has been higher than that. The current figure is higher than that which was stated by the Prime Minister today. He does have problems with accuracy and he certainly has problems remembering what he said in the past. We had an instance of that in the Parliament in the last few days. 
In the 1977 election campaign, he gave undertakings relating to taxation, pensions and interest rates- all very significant to most Australians. Despite his equivocation now, the Party which he led during that election campaign had no equivocation about what the Prime Minister was saying and what he meant. Every Australian will remember the statements repeated time and time again. He said: 'We are the only Party that can reduce interest rates by 2 per cent'. Why would a home buyer not believe the Prime Minister at that stage? Two years had not been quite long enough to be alert to him. In view of the benefits which such a reduction of interest rates would mean for home purchasers- especially with the deposit gap and second mortgages involvedwhy would young couples or older couples spending a disproportionate amount of their incomes on meeting interest repayments not support the Government? 
This is not a matter to be passed off by the Prime Minister saying: 'Well, they misunderstood me'. The people did not misunderstand; they were deliberately misled. Equivocation at a later stage is no excuse. The promise was that his party was the only party that could reduce interest rates by 2 per cent. There was a promise to reduce income tax. Hundreds of thousands of dollars of taxpayers' money was appropriated to the Liberal Party's campaign in the 1977 election in order to fund the answering of telephone inquiries to taxation officials on the request of Liberal Party television advertisements which said: 'Ring this number and we will tell you how much your tax reduction will be'. There was no equivocation. The advertisements said: 'We will tell you'. Another advertisement showed a handful of $5 bills. The bills in the advertisement added up to $70; a damned lie it added up to in actual fact. The Prime Minister's state of the nation message is not much better than those advertisements. 
-If I were the honourable member, I would be worried too. A person who stands for election on promises which are not met and which he does nothing to meet is as bad as the person who originally makes the false promises. Every honourable member opposite on every occasion during his election campaign repeated the policies of his Party, especially the most attractive parts, the parts which have now been repudiated by the Government. 
-A11 I can say is that the honourable gentleman has not had a look at his tax slip. He has certainly not seen the tax slips of any of the persons in his electorate whose incomes are relatively the same in total but whose take home pay is less because the Government's tax changes have resulted in those people having less income after the tax has come out. It is an inverted sense of morality, to say the least. 
I did not seek election on a false promise. The other proposition of the Government- one which was plagiarised in the first place- is now a matter of public controversy because of the activities and possibly the consciences of one or two honourable members opposite, belated nevertheless. In the 1975 election campaign, it was stated that the Government would take pensions out of politics. The Government said that it would adjust pensions twice yearly in accordance with the movements in the consumer price index. In 1976 that election promise was fulfilled. It was legislated for and in the 1977 election campaign the promise was repeated. If the honourable member for EdenMonaro wants to see Liberal Party literature repeating that promise I am sure that people in his electorate have such literature in their archives and are waiting to present it to him at some stage. The facts are that the Government made a promise. At the first Budget following that promise it repudiated it. Pensioners are the least able in the community to defend themselves economically against sudden changes in their circumstances. They are the least able in the community to recover losses which are imposed on them by circumstances which are outside their control. 
The Labor Party during its three years in office adjusted pensions twice yearly every year. It increased the rate of the age pension both in real and actual terms by 90 per cent for a married couple. In the three years prior to that we had a stop-start pension situation. At Christmas 1970 there was a campaign not unlike the present campaign in Australia because the Government had refused to adjust pensions at all. That was in 1 970 which is not long ago. 
-For the benefit of the honourable member for Hotham, on my first night in this Parliament the right honourable  Sir William  McMahon, as he is now, read the Budget with the galleries of this House packed with pensioners waiting to find out whether they would get an increase of 2c, 3c or 4c from a benevolent Government. After spending money in all sorts of areas the right honourable gentleman who was then Treasurer, with the greatest sympathy for the pensioners present and for pensioners throughout Australia, said to the Parliament: 'I have to announce that there are not sufficient funds to adjust pensions upward this year'. The pensioners received nothing. That happened on the first night I was a member of Parliament. It was not until after 1973 and the advent of the Labor Government that pensions became adjusted regularly and adjusted to a realistic proportion of the budgetary expenditure of the Government. They were not increased by enough but were increased by a damn sight more than they had been increased by other governments. 
The Prime Minister's message about the state of the nation is the message of a Prime Minister who is unable to go before the Australian people and honestly tell the facts. He blames other people regularly. He consistently shirks responsibility. The people would at least respect him if he went before them and said straight out: 'The predictions which we made, the assessments which our experts made and the advice given by our advisers were wrong. Therefore, we cannot carry out those policies which we intended to cany out'. The Prime Minister said that he did not say those things. They are on the public record and are printed in black and white. They are available to anyone who can read and, despite the Government's attacks on education, most Australians can read. 
I should like to refer to another area. The Prime Minister made considerable comments about defence. This area concerns me because it is my responsibility on behalf of the Opposition. There are two areas on which I want to touch briefly at this stage. The Prime Minister made a statement relating to expenditure on capital equipment in 1 975. It was not a correct statement of fact. Nevertheless, the figure to which he referred concerning new capital equipment applied for the 1974-75 financial year. The Prime Minister said that the figure applied to new capital equipment for 1975. It is only a minor matter, but it is about in line with the Prime Minister's usual accuracy. The facts are that between 1972 and 1975 capital expenditure in the defence area was low. It was low because during the period the Prime Minister was Minister for Defence, during the latter period of a previous LiberalNational Country Party Government in 1970 to 1972, a very low commitment to new capital equipment was made, with the result that the deliveries which had to be paid for did not fall due in that three-year period. In fact, the first major increase for capital costs- because of deliveriestook place in 1976, and they have been increasing since then because of the ordering and the procurement proposals which were inititated during the period  Mr Barnard  and  Mr Morrison  were Ministers for Defence. In fact, in the 1977-78 capital equipment purchases for defence, $220m worth of capital equipment purchases were in fact ordered prior to the present Government coming to office. 
The fact is that one does not go to a supermarket to buy defence equipment. The procurement process takes a long time, as does the examination of the equipment. After the equipment is ordered it takes a long time before it is delivered. It takes a very long time for large commitments to come through in actual budgetary terms. The reflection is on the Prime Minister for his failure during the period he was Minister for Defence to maintain Australia's capital purchasing program of defence materiels. That sag has in fact occurred again. In the five-year program announced in October 1976, expenditure was to be $ 1,200m. The program is now two years behind. Even if the $ 1,400m project is adopted it will represent in the next five years- and in the total seven-year period- a drop in real terms in capital equipment purchases of more than 10 per cent on the figure announced in 1976. 1 do not think the Prime Minister should be quite so cocky about that. I think that the matter is more serious than plucking a couple of irrelevant figures out of the air in order to justify his own failings in this area. 
The other matter with which I want to deal briefly is the commitment of troops to Namibia. The Opposition does not oppose that commitment. That was said in this House when the announcement was made. 
-The Opposition supported the proposition, but there have been reports- I think they are accurate reports- that there was opposition to the commitment by the Department of Defence. If so, I think it is important that the reasons for that opposition are made known to us, especially if those reasons have to do with the security or the capacity of the defence forces to carry out their likely functions in Australia and if their capabilities are in any way reduced by that commitment, or if the forces themselves are in any way likely to be placed in danger because of the structure of the force which is being committed. In both instances, I believe the Parliament is entitled to know why the defence establishment and, I presume, the Minister of Defence  (Mr Killen)  are concerned about this commitment. The commitment was made on a foreign affairs basis and was decided by Cabinet. I do not dispute Cabinet's right to do that. But it is a commitment of the part of the defence forces. If the Department of Defence is concerned that that commitment will in some way affect its capabilities to perform the tasks for which it is responsible then I think the Parliament is entitled to know to what extent and under what circumstances the Government has decided that those risks are worth while. I think Parliament is entitled to know what the risks are and what arguments were put forward by the Department of Defence for not sending the force. I think just to get up and say 'We are sending a force', without telling the Parliament the real background, is wrong. I believe the Australian people are adult enough to be told things of this nature. The Government obviously has decided to send forces after considering the risks and the justifications. I believe that the Parliament and the people of Australia are entitled also to know the arguments advanced against the commitment, especially if those arguments relate to Australia 's security. 
-We have just heard a speech which explains the difficulties that now exist in most of Asia. One of the unfortunate problems which confront not only Australia but also the Western world is that we have a long history of knowing how to solve other people's problems without ever taking the trouble to find out what those problems are in the first place. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  has just spoken about the domino theory, the problems experienced by his own Government in obtaining access to China and about a whole range of what could be taken to be only slights against what is seen as the Western position. Unfortunately, the treatment which has been given by most of the major Western powers to Asia, Africa, South America and latterly the peoples of the Pacific has been similar. It has been the adoption of the stance that whatever their culture, history or religion and irrespective of whether they are better or worse than ours, we the Western people know better and therefore demand the divine right to impose our will upon them. 
It is a little expansive to use the words 'IndoChina'. It is not one ethnic region, not one nation; it is a diverse society with a number of cultural and ethnic backgrounds and a long history of disputes. Certainly, there is no significant history of the norms of Western society for the acceptance of them. Any Westernisation in the countries in the area has been imposed for various reasons- usually, the expansion of imperialistic power or religious influence. It has been imposed purely for Western aims with no consideration whatsoever to the traditions or the will of the people concerned. 
If honourable members read the speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and listen to the speeches being made in this Parliament tonight, they will see that there is no change in that attitude at all. The right honourable member for Lowe talked about the domino theory. Other members have spoken about what is going to happen in Indo-China and why the situation has occurred. We have heard a few speeches about the South East Asia Treaty Organisation alliance. When I was elected to this Parliament SEATO was a very major area of debate. 
I would have thought that had SEATO been cancelled on 13 August 1967, the night I came into the Parliament, the world most likely would have collapsed. The truth is that it was more a psychological prop than anything real. In fact, three of the major powers had long since ceased to be active members or even to attend ministerial council meetings of that organisation. For selfish domestic political reasons SEATO was being promulgated by Australian politicians as the be all and save all of all of Australia's foreign policy. It enabled successive Australian Prime Ministers and successive Australian Foreign Ministers to avoid the responsibilities to examine properly and to search out what was in Australia's best interests. 
The problems which now exist in the IndoChina area are very substantially problems of Western creation, of incompetence in foreign policy, of insensitivity by those charged with the responsibility of carrying out that foreign policy and of downright treachery on the part of a significant proportion of those who were involved in the Pacific war which ended in 1945. The Vietnamese fought on the same side as the allies and General MacArthur once indicated that they tied up a large number of Japanese divisions during the war. But what did we do? Upon the surrender of Japan in South Vietnam we handed back the administration of Vietnam to the French. The French had collaborated with the Japanese and the Germans, and had released the Japanese armed forces from the prison camps in order that they could assist the French to re-establish colonial rule over those people who had fought on our side during that war. That is the sort of reward we gave people who supported us in the 
Second World War. If we now find that those people do not welcome us with open arms we ought to look inwardly and not outwardly for the reason. 
Almost every significant crisis in the world today can be traced back to the political incompetence of Western nations this century. They shared up the Middle East among the kings and forgot the people. It worked for 25 years but now there are problems throughout the area. We still have people in this Parliament talking about what they would do and why the people who have been treated with utter contempt and whose traditions have been thrown out the window should accept the suzerainty of the Western powers over their way of life. I invite honourable members to look at the world and say where among the areas that I have named significant Western influences have not moved in to change the traditional cultures, to impose unwanted leaders on nations and to impose on nations standards which are unacceptable in cultural, religious and historic terms. 
The first country I wish to mention is Iran where there has been a return to a traditional form of rule. Hopefully, the civil war or uprising in Iran will settle down and the country will return to what it sees- that is the important thing- as the role that it should play in the world. We should not, as we did a couple of weeks ago, label the forces seeking to overthrow the Shah as necessarily being pro-anyone. It may be that conservative, shortsighted elements in our community look on anyone who does not profess blindly, without thought or consideration for their own dignity, to be pro-Western, proAmerican or pro-something else, as someone to be viewed with suspicion. However, there just might be in the world people who would like to live their own lives and make their own decisions in their own best interests. That is something which we are much too selfish to accept. 
Iran, Lebanon, Cyprus, Kampuchea, China, Vietnam, Yemen, the Philippines, Irelandwhich is somewhat westernised- Uganda, Indonesian New Guinea, Israel, the Arab countries, Ethiopia, Zimbabwe and Namibia are a few of the places where there is actual armed conflict at the moment, or where the situation is very close to it. Those countries represent nearly half of the world. Almost every one of those conflicts has arisen out of colonial empires which sought to change the people, their standards, their way of life and their ethnic and cultural backgrounds, to something that they were not, and to impose servility upon them and deny them their culture and dignity. So we do not have a very good record. What happened during the 1960s in the electorate as well as in this Parliament reflects how short term political advantage can be turned into a monster. What member of this Parliament, even with the benefit of hindsight, could seriously allege that these are arrows, coming down from China, pointed at the major cities of Australia? Yet that was what the 1966 election campaign was fought on. I still have the pamphlets if honourable members want to see them. I was a candidate at that election, one of the people who had to try to explain that the Chinese not only were not coming to Australia but also were militarily incapable of doing so. That was a minor technical detail known fully to the government of the day but the true position was deliberately falsified to the public of Australia and the world at large. 
I believe that the Iranian problem will now be played down by the Government which, a few weeks ago, was posing it as a major international threat. The affairs in Indo-China are far more serious and the consequences could be very significant. The situation there has very much to do with the competition for influence in international politics. I have read the statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It says that no one can use the unsatisfactory nature or the inhumanity of the Pol Pot Government as an excuse for not supporting the withdrawal of the Vietnamese. I believe that no nation has the right to militarily impose on another nation its will or the type of government that it wishes. I certainly have no wish to see the restoration of the regime which was in Kampuchea but I am extremely concerned that there appears to be no means available either to the West or to the countries of the region by which that particular dilemma can be resolved. There is not to be a United Nations force there and there will not be some form of influence brought to bear on the countries of the region because the militarily significant countries of the region are Vietnam and China. 
The Russians may be able to exercise some external influence and the Americans also may be able to exercise some influence. I say 'may' because America's influence in that area must have been very significantly downgraded by its failure to meet the obligations it entered into at the time of the peace negotiations when substantial aid was offered to North Vietnam but repudiated by the present American administration. America's foreign policy is its responsibility but, in doing that, America has significantly reduced any influence it can expect to have in that area. Unfortunately, this has tended to remove from the Vietnamese regime any chance it had of independence from one of the major communist powers. Vietnam has to go somewhere for assistance. It was economically devastated by 30 years of war fought on its soil, firstly against the French whose rule was reimposed upon it. Despite the fact that France and Vietnam were allies, the French fought for or collaborated with the Japanese. China is the alternative for the Vietnamese. The present situation is dangerous for the rest of the world for the very significant reason that China's position of influence in the world is at stake and it is extremely doubtful whether it can be more successful in the area than were the Americans or the French before them. The Vietnamese are in a very strong position unless an all-out invasion takes place, and I doubt whether that is likely. 
The statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is superficial and does not deal with the problems. It certainly does not acknowledge that we, as a nation and as a people, have yet to admit that many of the problems in IndoChina and Asia are the result of lack of understanding, refusal to understand and attempts to impose our culture and our will on people who are entitled to their own culture and their own will. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Have Commonwealth vehicle drivers been instructed not to use the new West Gate Bridge unless they or their passengers pay toll charges without the right of refund. 
If so, do similar arrangements apply in relation to the Sydney Harbour Bridge toll charges. 
I do not welcome the decision. I might have welcomed the changes in the basis of car manufacture in Australia if those changes had been made as a result of a proper examination of the proposal, if the facts had been placed before us and had been before the people responsible for making the decision and if it were known that they had the capacity to make such a decision. It is of serious concern that as late as Monday last week officers of the department responsible for advising the Government on this matter were not in a position to give detailed projections of the likely effects on the whole Australian car industry of the changes proposed by General Motors-Holden's Ltd to the motor vehicle plans. 
Honourable members opposite who have spoken on this matter seem to be beguiled by big numbers and by the General Motors proposal. Their justification of the change in the plans is based substantially on the General Motors proposal. They are hopeful that the components industry will survive and that large sections of it will not go to the wall. Faith and hope are about all they have because there is no statistical basis for that hope. There has been no adequate examination and no capacity to carry out an adequate examination exists within the advisers to the Government. It is not their fault that this is so. Because the Department concerned is so bereft of staff and technical capacity as a result of the imposition of staff ceilings and other restrictions that have been placed upon it, it would be humanly impossible, irrespective of goodwill, for that work to be done. The Industries Assistance Commission is far better staffed in a technical capacity to assess these matters than is the Department which initially advises the Government on such issues. It is all right to say that substantial proportions of the plan Will be referred to the IAC, but that will happen after the ball. The major decisions have already been announced in this statement. 
The honourable member for Barton  (Mr Bradfield)  mentioned how easy it is to find out the cost of imported components- how available those figures are. I can tell this House that the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety had to threaten General Motors with contempt of Parliament in order to obtain the cost of imported components related to road safety. That shows how difficult it was to get that sort of information. The figures were provided under protest and only under threat of such action being taken. 
There is more than one motor manufacturer in Australia. The Government has decided that the proposal which General Motors sees as being in its best business interests will be adopted as the new motor car plan after the end of 1982. The life of the existing plan has been shortened to that date and the existing plan has been modified in the way announced in the statement. The result is that these companies have been foolish enough- I think one has to say that now- to depend upon undertakings given by the Government at an earlier time that the plans would operate until a fixed date and that new plans would be negotiated before that date, which would allow the companies to plan future investment and development and to state the way in which they saw the industry developing after that date. 
One company has seen fit to press its business interests. I make no complaint about the company pressing its interests. That is what it is all about in the free enterprise system. However, the Government has pursued or accommodated the business interests of that company, without taking into account the effect that will have on the business interests of other companies competing in the same field. These companies are possibly planning a different form of development or different forms of operation for the duration of the present plan. What will happen when those other companies reach a situation in which they plan to enter or are forced to enter into a complementation scheme? We have received at least some indication of what will happen when General Motors-Holden's Ltd makes the move. It will cease to place orders with Australian manufacturers and will proceed with large volume engine manufacturing. It can be predicted that GMH will cease purchasing the parts it is currently purchasing in Australia because those components will no longer be manufactured in Australia. What will happen when the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd, Chrysler Australia Ltd, and the Toyota-Nissan company change their parts sourcing, or their intended parts sourcing, because in some cases that is more relevant? What parts will be involved in the reversion? 
I think it is fair to say to the House- it is not often said- that the reason for the failure of the consortium which intended to build an engine plant in South Australia was that it involved a combination plan which would have added to the local Australian content. At that stage there was an offset proposal in the plan which was dropped by this Government, as was the nonreversion plan. Under the proposal, fourcylinder engines would have been supplied to Australian manufacturers at volume capacity. But when it came to the crunch the Japanese manufacturers were all right because they were entering the market place. Therefore, they had no existing commitment. The major motor car manufacturers were placed in a position in which, whenever they suggested that they might be able to revert overseas some section of thencurrent Australian supply in order to take up the additional Australian content which would be involved in producing an engine in Australia, they were told that they could not revert that supply because that would affect employment in a certain area and it could affect some other company. They were left in a situation in which reversion was possible only in respect of parts produced within their own companies. In other words, they were asked to obtain from outside their plants an additional amount of Australian content but they were not able to reduce orders for parts from outside their plants, substantially for political reasons, because of the effect that would have. 
What will happen? We have no reversion committee at the moment and no ban on the reversion of the sources of supply. When those other companies move into the same stream, what will happen to the existing component productions of the major companies? They are not all in the same place and they are not automatically interchangeable in relation to jobs. This may or may not be the way in which the future development of the Australian motor industry should proceed. It is certainly not the way in which Australia should make decisions about what is in Australia's best interests. It is very doubtful whether the Government first found out about the General Motors proposal only four weeks ago. I would be surprised if the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  was not apprised of the outline of the proposal when he visited the General Motors plant in Detroit last year. Before returning to Australia he made a number of public statements relating to export offsets, world car concepts and complementation schemes. It is certain that, at the Minister's request, the representatives of the Federation of Automotive Products Manufacturers were not permitted to discuss any of the details of this matter on Monday of last week. It is certain that the Department was not able - 
The Minister requested that no detailed discussions take place at that meeting. 
-So was the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  and his memory is almost infallible. He made a lot of money out of it. If the Minister is prepared to challenge him, I am prepared to put on a show in King's Hall. It is also important for us to understand the reason we are in this difficulty in relation to car plans. The McEwen plans were economically unsound. They forced the Australian car manufacturing industry into uneconomic situations in which it was vulnerable to imported cars. They locked the car industry in Australia into a six-cylinder engine cycle when such engines were moving out of public demand, with the result that the locally manufactured content of the Australian car industry dropped from approximately 72 per cent of all passenger car sales in 1968 to about 35 per cent in 1975. Those plans were modified, to the disadvantage of the industry. 
In 1974 and 1975 the Government held long discussions with all the companies. I still have copies of the submissions made by those companies on the plans. On that occasion, General Motors asked that local manufacturers be given the exclusive right to 90 per cent of the total Australian market, that 10 per cent of passenger motor vehicles be imported and that only those companies involved in the manufacturers' plan have the right to import vehicles. The position is a little different now. A plan was devised and announced. It was modified in a number of ways by the present Government, but it was finally stated that it would run until 1984. It will now be dropped two years earlier than planned. We now hear talk of a 5 per cent complementation and offset program. That does not sound much if it is not known what 5 per cent means in terms of the car plans. I doubt very much whether many honourable members or people generally know what it means. 
If we are talking of an 85 per cent content plan, that does not relate to 85 per cent of the motor vehicle; it relates to 85 per cent of the wholesale cost of the motor vehicle. The remaining 15 per cent relates to the imported cost of components, which can amount to 15 per cent of the wholesale price of the vehicle. That represents almost 40 per cent of the actual retail cost of the vehicle. The 85 per cent content includes costs such as payroll tax, workers compensation, wharfage dues, freight costs and all the other costs which are related to production, assembly, storage, servicing and construction of a motor vehicle in Australia. The 5 per cent calculation, made on the basis of the straight out cost of imported parts, represents between 10 and 15 per cent additional components in the actual motor car. That is a big hole in the components industry. I pick one example out of the air. If the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd goes into a complementation scheme and decides to drop, say, transmissions, which it does not make in its own factory, Borg- Warner (Australia) Ltd will be in trouble. If Chrysler Australia Ltd drops some of the major components it buys in an attempt to bring its cars up to 85 per cent local content, the suppliers of those components will be out of business. There is no alternative market and the investment of those companies is not in the machinery and the capacity to produce some other forms of goods. The Minister's statement contains no details, no statistical evidence and no indication that the Government has any statistical evidence, projections or assessments of the effects of this plan on the total industry and on industry in general in Australia. It is a plan which has been devised because it suits the particular political requirements of the day and the pressure to which the Government is prepared to succumb. The long-term Australian interest has not been considered. 
-I ask the Minister for Defence whether it is a fact that the major proportion of Australia's defence liaison officers is posted in the United States of America. I understand that the number of such officers is a matter of dispute with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask whether the Minister considers that this is a reasonable allocation of these personnel? How many defence liaison officers are posted in Middle East countries to observe developments, the use of weapons and military undertakings? Does the preponderance of personnel in the United States of America and the almost total, if not total, lack of personnel in the Middle East, indicate a preference for location rather than a rational allocation of personnel on the basis of military requirements and military information requirements? 
-The Opposition does not oppose the motion. A number of large-scale works of this nature pass through this House at fairly regular intervals. In this particular case the work concerns a defence industries facility. It may be in the interests of the House when we are discussing an item involving some $7m to change facilities at Garden Islandrecognising that not dissimilar facilities exist at Williamstown in Victoria and that there is some doubt about future work loads in defence industries in Australia- for the Government to indicate what are its proposals for future naval works and constructions in Australia, in addition to maintenance. I very much doubt that the facilities which are being constructed- I am certain that they are necessary facilities- are warranted only for servicing the FFG frigates which we have on order. At this stage it is proposed to have three of them. I think that some collation of the works which are proposed- some indication of this could have been given to the House- may well have been given to the Committee. If it was, it would have been given to the Committee in confidence, not necessarily because it is confidential information but because the Department of Defence and its related offices tend to deal on a confidential basis with matters which, in other circumstances, especially in the United States, would be open to public debate. 
The Opposition does not oppose this motion. However, I would like to see a more frank and open indication of the proposed work load and usage of this facility and other defence facilities which receive considerable sums of money. Such sums are made available by this House on the basis that public discussion will take place rather than on the basis of information being made available to committees confidentially. In such circumstances information on a particular project may be available to committees for assessment but information on the total intentions of the Department of Defence or the total defence needs of the country is not available for assessment. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Defence Force (Retirement and Death Benefits Amendments) Bill. It sets out in legislative form the clear intent of the Act. It has been found that the existing legislation does not carry this intent through into law. The situation which has developed as a result of a court case would enable this Act to be utilised for purposes for which it is not intended, and in the long term, because of the financial implications of those changes, could have serious effects on the future benefits available to members of the Defence Force. It is a question not of the benefits being reduced but of the cost of the increasing benefits at any given time becoming excessive and therefore governments being reluctant to deal with the legislation. The clear purpose of the Bill in the situation of persons being invalided out of the Services is to provide them with compensation for the loss of industrial earning capacity which they have suffered because of their injuries. The proposal is not for a national compensation scheme or for a general compensation scheme for persons who have been in the Services at some stage and who have suffered injuries or incapacities which are not the result of that service. 
The Opposition supports the Bill because it makes clear in legislative form the purpose of the legislation. It will ensure that its purpose does not extend beyond what was intended. The Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act and its predecessor, the Defence Force Retirement Benefits Act, have been studied extensively by this Parliament in recent years. The Jess Committee sat for some considerable time to examine the DFRB legislation and make recommendations on means by which that legislation could be improved. The previous legislation was deemed to be unsatisfactory by all members of that Committee and recommendations were made which were accepted generally by both sides of the Parliament. Legislation to implement the recommendations of the Jess Committee passed through this Parliament in 1973. The provisions of the new legislation, which we are here amending, were applied to people who retired after 1 October 1972. 
Unfortunately, some anomalies were created in the amending legislation in that persons with almost the same dates of service and promotion, et cetera, and who retired immediately before or immediately after 1 October found themselves with quite different benefits. In some instances, because of the way in which the original legislation, from which this legislation derives, was cast, retired persons have suffered disadvantages way out of proportion to what should be acceptable. In 1975 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  appointed the then honourable member for Herbert,  Mr Duke  Bonnett, now retired from this Parliament, as a single member committee of inquiry to inquire into the anomalies which existed in the Defence Force Retirement Benefits Act.  Mr Bonnett  was authorised by the Prime Minister to carry out that inquiry. He reported to the Prime Minister after he had left this Parliament but, I think, with his charter still intact, on 10 January 1978. Unfortunately, for reasons which the Government might explain, although  Mr Bonnett  was authorised by the Government to carry out this inquiry, the costs of that inquiry have never been met by the Government. In fact  Mr Bonnett  had to depend on voluntary labour, and persons who should not have been required to carry out that form of work on behalf of the Government, to produce his final report. That report has been in the hands of the Prime Minister for 15 months now. I understand that nothing has been heard of it. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that serious anomalies are brought out in  Mr Bonnett  's report. I have a copy of it but it is not my prerogative to table it in the House or to make it public- I think that that is the Government's prerogative. 
I believe that retired persons who are now suffering fairly serious disabilities because of the differences between the two pieces of legislation should be entitled, at this stage, at least to a statement from the Government on its intentions with regard to the pre-October 1972 retirees. I cite just one example. A person who retired immediately prior to the operation of the present Act and who had almost the same length of service and the same promotions as a person who retired almost immediately afterwards receives a pension of at least $2,000 less than the person who retired under the present Act. That is set out in this report. The person who had served under the previous Act and who had retired under the previous Act would have paid a greater proportion of his salary as contributions to the Fund than would now be the case because of the changed contribution rates. Certainly the amounts would have been different but the proportion of salary would have been greater. Yet that person's rights to benefits are considerably less. I ask the Minister whether he will take up  Mr Bonnett  's report with the Prime Minister and whether the Government will table the report in the Parliament. It was prepared in good faith by the then honourable member for Herbert and a number of organisations contributed to its preparation in the belief that it would be taken seriously by the Government and that it would be a public document setting out the disabilities which persons who retired under the previous Act are now suffering. 
I want to make it quite clear to the House that this is a responsibility created by an Art, which was passed by a previous Government, largely because of the manner in which some of the recommendations of the Jess Committee report were interpreted and applied. Anomalies were shown to exist fairly early in the operation of the present Act as compared with the previous Act and the Prime Minister clearly gave an undertaking that at least he would examine those anomalies when he authorised the then honourable member for Herbert to conduct his inquiries. 
There is one other matter relating to the existing Act that I wish to raise and that is the position of widows who remarry. Service widows appear to be in a different position from those receiving benefits under the Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme. Under the Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme as amended, a widow who subsequently remarries does not automatically lose the rights to a pension to which she was entitled in respect of her former husband. My understanding is that under the DFR and DB legislation she does lose that right to a pension. If that is so, it is a discrimination which should not be allowed to continue and I ask the Minister to examine the matter. 
The Opposition does not oppose this legislation. As I indicated previously, the legislation sets in train what was the intention of the Act and what clearly is the understanding of its purpose. I raised other matters because I believe it is time that at least a report to the Parliament was made on what the Government's attitude is to the report of the former honourable member for Herbert,  Mr Duke  Bonnett. What the Government decides to do about the report is a matter of policy- something it must determine- but it should indicate to the House, firstly, that that report exists, by tabling it, and secondly, the action it intends to take upon the report. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Has the new uniform Defence Services Disciplinary Code been finalised. 
When will it be introduced. 
I move: 
1 ) That a standing committee of this House be established to: 
examine and report upon- 
the capacity of Australia's defence forces to meet the criteria of substantial self-reliance set out in the Guam doctrine; 
the appropriateness of the existing organisation of Australia's defence forces; 
the capacity of the defence forces to achieve defence readiness in a short period; 
the level of reserves and reserve equipment for use in a defensive requirement situation; 
the availability of replacement equipment to maintain an effective action capability, and 
the effectiveness of expenditure of funds appropriated for defence; 
carry out a continuing examination of the extent to which announced defence programs are implemented, and 
examine such other matters related to the defence of Australia and the defence services as may be determined by the committee or referred by Parliament. 
That the committee be given all powers necessary to carry out its investigation and report to Parliament at least twice a year. 
I would add that I would have no objection if the proposed body were to be a joint committee. The terms of the motion are meant to be allembracing, to cover the whole subject of defence and to ensure oversight by this House of expenditure by this Parliament, which is required to appropriate funds for defence at fairly high levels, even though arguably those funds are not sufficiently high insofar as our actual defence needs are concerned. Last year the appropriation in the Budget for defence represented 8.7 per cent of the total government outlays. In other words, close to $9 out of every $100 spent last year by the Government was devoted to defence. There is very little public debate or examination of the manner in which decisions within the defence area are made, or of the appropriateness, the methods of choosing and the roles of given pieces of equipment, some with extremely high capability and possessing very high value. This Parliament, in common with the public, is discouraged from making a real examination of significant areas of the operation of defence because of an over-use of secrecy and a lack of insight and public discussion of the aims, intentions and justification for actions taken in the defence area. 
Figures published today indicate that there are 70,400 uniformed members of the Services in Australia and that approximately 30,000 persons are engaged in civilian employment of various types that is directly related to defence. This Parliament appropriates annually some $2!ยฃ billion to defence but has no adequate capacity to examine that expenditure, the organisation which is responsible for it, or whether it adds to the real defence capacity of the nation. I have no doubt that persons involved in the Public Service and the armed services are among the most competent in their field in the world. Certainly, the professional capacity of our military forces is as great as that of any group of servicemen in the world. That does not alter the fact that this Parliament has to appropriate funds, has to make decisions and is responsible to the Australian people for the defence of this country and for ensuring that the funds so appropriated are spent properly. I do not think that anyone- with some exceptions- in this Parliament or outside of it suggests that those funds should not be spent. Parliament is answerable for the expenditure of those funds yet almost a minimum of information concerning it is made available to the Parliament or the public. I would contrast the situation of this Parliament with that of the United States. In one instance last year, matters on which the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  placed a D-notice were published in magazines. 
It concerned purchases and was published in an electronics magazine in about June. I would contrast that with the situation last year in which a series of supposed disclosures by a journalist in Austrafia became headline news all over the country as major leaks or disclosures of secrets from the Department of Defence. That must have damaged the standing of our defence forces and defence administration, yet not one of the items that were disclosed in those articles should have had any significance at all if there had been a free flow of information between the defence administration and the Australian public. Most of the information in fact came from records submitted in the United States to congressional committees, records which were readily available to members of the United States Congress. They were not of a confidential or secret, but rather a public, nature. The sensationalism and the ensuing embarrassment that was caused to defence in this country was not the result of the disclosures but of the fact that they were able to be rendered sensational because of over-secrecy and the nondisclosure of information which had no right to be withheld from any section of the Australian public. 
Anyone who has read the naval technical services report which has been the subject of all sorts of debate around this country will find it very difficult to ascertain why it should be regarded as a confidential document, why such a hullabaloo has gone on about its contents. It contains nothing that would threaten national security. The Minister has said on a number of occasions that it does not contain information which is significantly relevant to the organisation of his Department. Its importance is that it was classified as secret. Incidentally, it was classified as secret after it had been substantially made publicly available within and outside his Department. It was declared to be confidential after much of its contents had been published in the  Australian. 
However, the real crunch, the real scoop by journalists, resulted from secrecy which need not have existed. If the complaints in that report have significance, the Department and the Minister ought to be doing something about them. If not, they should be rebutted. But to declare the document confidential because it was critical of the structure of the Department, or of some of its operations, or because it disclosed friction within the Department, was a retrograde step and one designed to add to the problems, not detract from them. I repeat, most of the Toohey disclosures last year, which caused a considerable number of problems, became scoops only because so much secrecy surrounds the ordinary day-to-day operations of defence. 
The Auditor-General, over a period, has disclosed serious problems in regard to the computer operations of the Department. I note that only now has the Minister announced that orders for the second Univac computer will be placed. This is an area in which major expenditure is taking place. It is one concerning which an inquiry by another parliamentary committee, the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, is taking place in retrospect; but Parliament has no real means of bringing its capacity for inquiry to bear upon it and thus satisfying its need for information. 
I direct the attention of honourable members to the difference between the position in Australia and that in the United States. One obvious difference is that the Congress has different responsibilities and operates in a different manner. However, I do not think that that makes classified information in the United States any less secure. I do not think that it requires a lower security rating than it does in Australia. I believe that the rights of members of this Parliament to such information as can, and should be made available are just as great. Let me cite an obvious case. During the controversies which surrounded the purchase of the FI 1 1 questions were asked in both Houses of this Parliament over a protracted period. Most of those questions- the present Minister for Defence did not hold that portfolio at the time- were put aside on the ground that they concerned confidential or security information. It was information which was not available. 
A former senator,  Senator James  McClelland, wrote to the  chairman  of a sub-committee of the United States Senate armed services committee which was inquiring into the FI 1 1 aircraft contracts and purchases asking if information was available. The senator provided that Australian senator, who was an Opposition senator, with 10 volumes which covered hearings and information relating to the FI 1 1, including answers to questions. The information in the answers had been refused to this Parliament because of security. Secrecy and the over-use of security breeds troubles for the departments which use it. It enables mistakes to be covered up. It is used to prevent the exposure and correction of administrative and other problems which exist. Secrecy is the greatest danger which can exist for an efficient organisation. We would all like to know a lot more. 
We are entitled to know on what the money, which we are asked to appropriate, is spent, whether it is spent appropriately and whether, as a result of that expenditure, the Defence Force is capable of carrying out the tasks which are set for it. Already we have the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I want to make it quite clear that that Committee performs its functions as well as it is able. But I think it is important to point out that that large Committee has a number of sub-committees. Four separate sub-committees operate in that area. The staff provided for that full committee, with four sub-committees operating, is nine. The staff provided for the present inquiry of the joint committee is two. There is not even a typist. At the moment there are two seconded staff. I suggest that that is not a sufficient staff to carry out any sort of inquiry into defence procurement or into other aspects of defence in this country. 
I make the other point that the significance of defence to this country, to its security and to the. Budgets which are the responsibility of this House, is such that it is appropriate that a separate standing committee should exist to carry out continuing investigations into areas of defence. Last year the Minister complained about old soldiers making statements which were not helpful to defence. I think one of the problems we have is that contemporary soldiers and persons do not have enough access to public debate on matters relevant to the development of our defence forces and their administration. 
-I note the Minister's comment that he has actively encouraged debate. I will acknowledge that statement. I now return to the Naval Technical Services Division report. An inquiry was conducted within the Department of Defence into problems which quite clearly existed between civilian and service personnel operating in a technical area. Those persons who drew up that report have been subjected to harassment of a type which would make the drawing up of a future report impossible on an impartial basis, whether or not they were encouraged. 

 Mr Wodrow has been shifted out of his technical job for which he is qualified into a job for which he is not trained. He now performs no useful task within the defence area. There are other feelings of intimidation among the staff which prevent the speaking out against policy decisions or any decisions of senior management. 
That is not the argument here today. The argument is whether we want significant discussion, significant parliamentary investigation and real information provided on the defence of Australia. This matter is becoming a public debate. There are very significant decisions to be made in the next couple of years. The Minister will shortly announce decisions relating to the tactical fighter force program and, at least, that will give us further information. That program has been under investigation since about 1968. We think it should be coming to a conclusion. I certainly think that Parliament wants to know whether that sort of time lag can be afforded by Australian defence. It may well be able to. But the fact is that real investigation and questioning does not take place and cannot take place. The facilities do not exist. The decision on the future structure of the Royal Australian Navy has to be made in the next two or three years. A very serious obsolescence problem is arriving because of the age of a significant number of fighting ships, especially  HMAS Melbourne.  I know that decisions are' under discussion but the facts are that this Parliament should be involved in discussions on whether an aircraft carrier is needed. Such a major debate is taking place in the United States through congressional committees at the moment, but no such debate, in advance of the decisions being made, can really be undertaken in this place. The information is of a confidential nature. The inputs are less than satisfactory until a decision is actually announced. At that stage Parliament becomes impotent. 
In moving the motion I am seeking to advance, not retard, defence and defence debate in this country. Nothing but good can come out of a requirement of answerability. Nothing but good can come out of a properly constituted, properly staffed parliamentary committee with members dedicated to defence, examining expenditures, examining proposals and examining the needs of Australia's defence. I think in some instances honourable members should also be questioning the basis on which those decisions are made. The structure of the defence force and of the Department of Defence, and the procurement decisions that are made now, will have long term and consequential effects on our capacity to defend ourselves. If we decide to purchase an aircraft in the TFF program which does not fit into our strategic needs- I do not think that is likely to happen- then we have to live with that decision for 20 years. If we decide to purchase or not to purchase an aircraft carrier, the shape of our Navy in its major structural form is determined for 20 or 30 years, if not forever. If we make a mistake on the ground structures of our Defence Force and what shape they will be, it is not easy to correct that mistake. I believe that the Parliament is as entitled to participate in discussions prior to the decisions being made as it is to examine in retrospect the mistakes that might have been made because we did not examine the successes. 
This motion proposes the setting up of a parliamentary committee. It does not set out the numbers. It certainly does not seek to bind the House on the terms of reference. It will advance the interests of defence debate in Australia. It will enable this Parliament to participate more fully in the defence debate and to discharge its responsibilities both to defence and to the Australian people in a far more adequate manner. I therefore hope the House will adopt the motion which I have moved. I suggest that if honourable members decided not to adopt it, that can only be because of satisfaction with an unsatisfying situation. 
-by leave-The announcement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  is not unexpected. It is part of the progression towards the final selection of the tactical fighter force aircraft which will ultimately take over the role being performed by the Mirage. This process is becoming more extended as we near the final choice. A number of factors concerning the total air defence capacity of the Royal Australian Air Force, and to a lesser degree the Royal Australian Navy, will directly affect this decision and the total air defence capacity of Australia. I do not think that anyone inside or outside this House would seriously suggest that our air defence capacity can be neglected or that it is at the moment, of a nature which we would look upon as satisfactory. As a front line fighter aircraft the Mirage will have to perform that role at least until the mid-1980s and possibly until the late 1980s. The Minister mentioned some time ago that the Government was investigating and inquiring into a means by which the Mirage could be updated or modified in order to bring about its more efficient use over the extended period for which it will be required to be a front line aircraft. 
It was initially proposed that at least three squadrons of new aircraft would be purchased for the RAAF. We anticipate that at this stage the initial order will be about one squadron. It is not unreasonable to assume that the aircraft which was dropped from the short list was dropped because it was highly unlikely that its availability would extend over the period during which we would be looking to second or third orders, if such orders were ever placed. 
A very substantial financial commitment is involved- at least $500m in the initial stages. Any repeat orders most likely will be at increased costs if price escalations continue, as one would imagine they will. There is no historic evidence to suggest that they will not. It is also difficult to see a situation developing whereby the second order for aircraft in this field will be placed in the next 10 years at least. This will leave us with a situation whereby we will have a potential of some 25 front line aircraft going into the 21st century, to use the Minister's words. Irrespective of the capacity of the aircraft, it is not a significant force. It is a force that has to be looked at against the background of the Mirage aircraft dropping out of effective operations not long after the completion of the orders. One would anticipate that the orders would be placed at some time in late 1981, and that the deliveries would be completed some years thereafter, depending on the aircraft, its stage of production and what orders were ahead of the Australian order. It appears unlikely that the F16 aircraft will fit the category by the time the orders are placed because of the 'like of type' criterion, even though it may meet all other criteria. There appears to be an FI 1 1 type of arrangement here whereby we are in fact looking at a situation in which three of the four aircraft, two of them being of the one generic type, are in fact drawing board aircraft which are just going into the testing phase. So a considerable time lag is involved before such aircraft become realistic production aircraft. 
The total concept of Australia's air defence includes the maintenance or development of existing aircraft to a capacity which will ensure that in the short and long term we have adequate air defence. There is no mention in this statement of the results at this stage of the investigations of the Mirage aircraft which the Government indicated would be undertaken. Therefore we do not know at this stage whether the Mirage will remain substantially at its present capacity or whether that capacity will be increased considerably. There is a proposal at the moment for the FI 1 1 to be given reconnaissance pods. Four of these aircraft are to be sent to the United States. But a far more significant decision has to be made in the near future relating to the electronics of that aircraft, which are now not compatible with modern weapons systems and which could add to the capacity of and obtain from that aircraft its absolute maximum strike capacity, which is very great but which at the moment is not available to the Australian forces. I understand that the cost of such a conversion would be of the order of $ 100m. So that also is a major decision which has to be made by the Government in the not too distant future. If the Government intends to proceed to a three-squadron situation, the amounts of money involved will have to be made available fairly quickly and most likely would have to be offset against adaptions and changes which could be made to the rest of the air defence force. 
I now find myself more in tune with what the Minister has said about the requirements of an aircraft of this nature. It is absolutely essential for Australia's defence, given the numbers of aircraft that we are likely to purchase, that this aircraft not have exclusively air to air superiority but have very substantial air to surface capabilities, especially air to surface capacities in the maritime sense. It must have capacities for dealing substantive blows to an enemy force that is other than an airborne force. I think the realities of Australia's situation are that that is a highly likely requirement. The small number of aircraft involved and the obvious situation whereby we are not likely to be purchasing another type of aircraft in the near future would require that we get the maximum utility value out of the aircraft we are purchasing. 
This is a very large purchase. It is one which has been under consideration actively since 1973, which is when staff requirements were first put forward. They have been altered substantially because of changed circumstances since that time. We have at least to consider the fact that some of the delays are being caused by economic considerations whereby the choice of the aircraft has been delayed so that a type jump can take place and the aircraft, as with the FI 1 1, can serve both a political and a military purpose over a very long period. At this stage the Opposition has nothing to say about the choice or the aircraft. Certainly insufficient information and data are available. But we would expect a fuller statement to be made by the Minister in the not too distant future on the total development of Australia's air defences. 
-by leave-The winding up of the Australian Services Canteens Organisation has been very much like  Blue Hills.  It has been going on now for close on five years. It has come about as a result of a report commissioned by a former Minister for Defence and presented in January 1976 to the present Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  The report, which was commissioned from  Sir Basil  Osborne, was the subject of a considerable amount of concern among ASCO employees and also among the members of the board of ASCO itself. Both considered that the operations they were carrying out were efficient and should be continued. The Government, some time ago now, announced that ASCO would be wound up. On the occasion of the last statement to this House, I asked the Minister what provisions were to be made for the existing civilian staff of ASCO and especially those who were in remote areas. On the last figures I have ASCO had a civilian staff of 977 employees, close enough to 1,000, more than half of whom were in New South Wales and Victoria. A significant number were attached to military bases in areas where alternative employment is almost non-existent. The type of assistance that could be rendered by the Government for alternative employment would be fairly meaningless. No alternative employment exists. 
I note that the service at Woomera will continue. I presume it will continue on a similar scale to the present. It is interesting that the Government has chosen not to accept the recommendation of  Sir Basil  Osborne on the actual structure of the canteen services.  His  recommendation, apart from the structural side of it, was that a general service canteen organisation be established to cover all on-shore canteen services provided within the defence forces. The Government has decided to leave the on-shore sections of the Royal Australian Navy as a separate service- it was suggested in the report that they be included in the one organisation- and to establish a joint service for the Royal Australian Air Force and the Army. The Minister has not indicated the reason for that but I take it that it is so as not to disturb the existing arrangements within the naval area. 
My concern is still with the employees of the former organisation. Some 1,000 employees will be substantially made redundant. Some will be re-employed. In some instances, and at least one in Sydney, a change in the operation of the service has already occurred. As a result changes in awards and award coverages have taken place. Where employees are in fact being retained union coverages and designations are changing. A change in personnel will most likely take place even though the job still exists. When the Government takes a decision such as this not only is efficiency involved but also a considerable amount of human hardship. These people are dependent for employment on an organisation which the Government for efficiency reasons is winding up. They are receiving only platitudes. 
These changes have been planned over a long period. At this stage, according to the statement of the Minister for Administrative Services and Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence  (Mr McLeay),  they are not even in their final form. It concerns me that nothing more than a bland statement which has a less than significant effect on the future of these employees has been made. This matter has been before the Government for five years. That ought to have been long enough for the Government to undertake something more substantive for its employees. A number are casual staff and a number are part time. Some 500 are full time employees. Most of these will be displaced. Few will have alternative employment open to them. I believe that it is the responsibility of the Government when changes of this nature are made- I am not questioning the change; I think the evidence was that the change had to take place for efficiency reasons- to give consideration to the future of employees, especially those in areas where no alternative employment is likely to occur. 
-I wish to raise a matter which, although not quite the same, is in the same vein as that raised by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin).  Quite clearly the Government has a revenue problem. It is seeking to cure that revenue problem by raising funds based on next year's taxes, by harassing those people in our community who receive the very lowest incomes, by seeking to deny those people on the very lowest incomes benefits which they have received for some considerable time, and also by another device which I think is dishonest. That device is, without real reason, to prevent persons from receiving various forms of benefits and to tell them that they must appeal or re-apply for those benefits. The result usually is that that person receives no income for three to four weeks. That means a saving to the Government but it can mean tragic results for the family concerned because the income of that family is cut off for no reason whatsoever. 
In fact, there are circumstances in which that loss of income results purely from disagreements between departmental officers and the person applying for benefits. Such disagreements could arise because the manner of the person concerned was not acceptable to the officers of the Department. Unfortunately, departmental officers are acting under the direct instructions of Government ministers who have made it quite clear that they expect the toughest possible interpretation to be placed on every set of regulations and welfare provisions. They are not concerned about the people involved; the Government is in a deficit situation. It is not game to tackle its friends to raise funds; it is raising them from people who can least afford to fund its extravagances. 
There is one other matter which concerns me greatly. Over a considerable period we have had expressed in this House- this is the appropriate place to do it- complaints relating to the nonpayment of twice yearly adjustments to pensions. In fact, that represents a fine on every pensioner in Australia of $100 a year. So $100 a year is being ripped off pensioners. 
-The Government's Budget Papers indicate that it will save $27m by not making twice yearly adjustments to pensions. Are the Budger Papers telling lies or is the honourable member for Bendigo doing so? The fact is that the Government will save $27m. We have debated in the past the matter that I want to deal with tonight. Honourable members opposite do not have the courage to stand up to their convictions and they do not have the courage to stand up for the platform on which they were elected. We all know that. An election is pending in the State of Victoria. The Victorian colleagues of Government members- they include one person who attends Cabinet; he is not a Cabinet Minister- are telling pensioners that if they are re-elected the pensioners once again will receive twice yearly pension adjustments. 
-He is Secretary to Cabinet. The honourable member can work out who he is. That is a false statement. The Victorian Parliament does not make twice yearly pension adjustments anyhow. 
It is a gentleman whose name sounds something like that. The fact is that pensioners and old people, who are desperate to get the money on which they need to live and who have been betrayed by people who stood for election on false promises, are clutching at straws and are being offered hope that cannot be realised. Any member of a State government who makes such statements is deliberately misleading people who may not understand the differences between the Commonwealth Parliament and State parliaments. It is one thing for a person to say that he supports a proposition and that he will use his influence in the party to have it implemented, but it is a totally different proposition for a person to say that he will do something which he knows damned well he cannot do. 
-I do not know whether the honourable member for Bendigo - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I have to make a personal explanation. The honourable member for Bendigo has said - 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
Are special air circulating car seat pads issued to Commonwealth drivers on a special occasion basis only; if so, why. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Has the Government purchasing committee before it tenders for the construction of an underway replenishment ship for the Department of Defence? In assessing tenders will the Australian firm, which has submitted a tender, be given the same assistance and benefits as would be the case were the ship a commercial ship rather than a military ship? If not, is the Minister able to indicate why a substantial subsidy would be given to an Australian shipbuilder building a commercial ship, but no such assistance would be available for the Australian construction of a military vessel? 
-by leave-The statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  brings at least temporarily to a close one of the less satisfying episodes in Defence administration and the Minister's own administration of the Department of Defence during his tenure, and possibly an earlier period. Last year this particular proposal resulted in a censure motion being moved in this House against the Minister; not because he wilfully mislead the House but because information was withheld from him. I said on that occasion that this exercise had been wilfully mishandled because, in accordance with the well-known 'need to know' doctrine, information had been withheld from the Minister. This information was important to Australia and important to Australia's defence. That incident led to the Minister and the Government being seriously embarrassed. 
When there were disclosures on that occasion we were told that the information had not been made available to the Australian Government. In fact, the proposition had been before a United States Congressional committee and details of plans to alter the station in Australia had been approved in the United States. On that occasion the Minister said that no formal notification had taken place; but a week before that statement he took the United States Government to task for not informing the Australian Government that the alterations were even in the pipeline. In fact, the technical area of the Department had known of this since 1 972 but the information had not got through to the top of the Department. the policymaking segments. That statement also raised extraordinary doubts. I can only put it at that level. A number of extremely high level Australian missions had gone to the United States in response to the Schlesinger-Barnard agreements of 1973 to discuss this particular base, its administration and the Australian-American agreements relating to its operations. 
The policy people in those delegations told the Minister that they did not know of this matter but in fact they were briefed on it in the United States at least a year earlier. The policy people in the Department apparently did not look at the matters on which they went to the United States as being serious, or else they did not look at the matter of the Australian Government knowing what was going on on Australian territory as being very serious. It is a matter of concern that a Minister is able to make that sort of mistake. He should know about major decisions in respect of installations on Australian soil which could be significant targets in any worldwide conflict, or even a smaller conflict. It is known now- it was not known at the time- that on at least one occasion, if not more, this base was used to convey messages to alert United States forces and that the Australian Government was not apprised of this until after the event. If hostilities had taken place this base would have been one of the prime targets for a nuclear strike or some other strike on Australian soil. That could have happened. It still could take place without the Australian Government knowing that messages had been sent through that station. 
There is another matter which is of. equal concern. On 17 February this year, at least a year, and possibly considerably longer, after the United States Government was able to put detailed information of its proposals before a US Congressional committee, the formal request came to the Australian Government. The Harold E. Holt base was mentioned at the Congressional committee's hearing as a site for this installation. I would have thought that the Australian Government would have been kept informed. I am surprised that the American Government did not think Australia important enough to advise it that such a proposal was running. As I understand it, a formal request in diplomatic terms is a request made at a particular time by one government to another government when it knows that it is a request that will be accepted. I think that the American Government would have known well before 17 February this year that this proposal would be acceptable. 
There are problems of political control. I am very concerned about remarks made by the Minister in another debate here less than a fortnight ago, when he indicated that, whilst it was all right for the Opposition spokesman to be briefed on defence matters, he did not feel that information should be readily available to the Parliament for assessment and consideration, even though the Parliament appropriates the funds that are spent by the Department. I am concerned- we do not have the information on which we can judge this-that money being spent on defence policies in this country may not be being considered in the best circumstances, the most efficient circumstances; nor may it be being spent in a manner that will ensure that in fact we do have defence. I am aware of the Minister's acceptance of responsibility. I am also aware that the Minister said that if he fails in his duties this House has a full right to censure him. I accept that, but I wonder what would have happened or what relevance it would have had if the French National Assembly had called itself together in 1.940, when the Germans were invading Belgium, to censure the French Minister for Defence because defence planning was out of date and adequate money for defence had been spent badly. 
-I suggest that it is an irrelevancy in a matter such as defence, where long term planning is necessary and where information is necessary, for anyone to suggest that there might be a censure motion if we fail. If we fail we will not catch up. 
The Opposition does not oppose this proposal. However, we do believe that there is need for the Parliament to be given more information about these facilities and similar facilities in Australia. We believe that there is a failing at the strategic level. I understand that the Minister has not visited Washington for some years for discussions with American officials. I believe that there is a need for that sort of exchange so that we can be fully acquainted with what the United States is doing, especially on our soil. There is too much trust and subservience in the Australia attitude. That is not good enough. We will be in a position in the future where we will have to depend on our own initiative, and we should know exactly where we stand. That cannot be done through public servants. It cannot be done by an organisation dominated by a single man. I believe that this House as a House of Parliament has to demand far greater information from the Government than it is receiving or has received in the past. 
This particular instance can be described only as a comedy of serious and tragic accidents leading to a Minister making statements that he had to withdraw within a week. The statements would never have been made had it not been that the public servants concerned obviously believed that they were entitled not to tell the Minister what was going on but to ensure that they themselves were fully informed on matters on which several of them had been sent to the United States on regular occasions for discussions. There was an attempt to hang the blame on Air Vice-Marshal Jordan. That was not good enough either, because a senior civilian officer and at least one other officer were involved. Their names were not mentioned, other than in answer to a question; but apparently they were thought to be blameless. We have a very substantial defence establishment- not as big in the civilian areas as the Press would have us believe; nevertheless, very substantial. There are many people of great capacity, and I believe that this incident and a number of other incidents that are not dissimilar indicate that they are not being utilised to the maximum. I do not believe that the mistakes that took place earlier on this issue have been dealt with properly at an administrative level. I am concerned at reports that we are not capable of finding a replacement for the present Secretary to the Department and that the Government has sought permission to have the option of appointing him for a further 12 months. 
-There is a question on the Notice Paper. The Minister could have answered it at any time he wished. I suggest that it may well be that the Department needs considerable examination. One of the things that disturb me is a recent statement by a retiring air commodore, who said: 
The Minister for Defence says pretty well what  Sir Arthur  wants him to say. 
Then he went on to say - 
I am quoting. He went on to say: 
I'd say that 99 out of 100 times  Sir Arthur's  opinion is so strong that it prevails. 
That may well be because  Sir Arthur  Tange is usually right, but I doubt it. I know of no one who is right 99 out of 100 times. That quotation is disturbing, not because it may or may not be right- the Minister disputes that it is right- but because a senior officer in the Defence Force thinks it is right and other senior officers also think it is right. That kills initiative and destroys and senior capacity of a major policy-making department to do its job. If it feels that it is dominated, if it feels that it is a waste of time showing initiative, then initiative will not be shown. 
As I said a moment ago, this announcement relates to information which we were incapable of being given and which the Government admitted it did not even know about six years after the facility was proposed. It is a formal acceptance of a formal proposal, the end of the line. 
-We have not appropriated money for the TFF program either, but the Government is well on the way to making the final decision. When the final decision is made it will be too late for this House to consider seriously whether the appropriation should be made. The Opposition does not oppose the proposition, but we feel that it is time procedures were set up that would prevent the occurrences that have led to this announcement and ensure that the Department not only does its job and is seen to do its job but also tells the Minister what is going on. 
-I raise a point of procedure,  Mr Speaker.  The motion says that there is a requirement that amendments be put before the House in the order of their being handed to the  Clerk.  Would that give persons submitting amendments- I ask this from a purely practical point of view- priority in calls so that they can move their amendments? Does that mean that in all probability honourable members who do not have amendments will not get the call at all? 
I want to raise in this House tonight a matter which is of some concern. I regret that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  is not available to answer on the matter at this stage. A report is circulating, which I am informed is accurate but I am not able to verify this and I had hoped that the Minister would be able to verify it, that the total project cost of the purchase of three FFG frigates from the United States of America at the latest estimate has escalated to $900m. This is an escalation for the cost of three ships from an original projected price of $ 189m for two ships. The cost of the ships has more than doubled. The cost of the equipment has risen by at least SO per cent, most likely more, substantially as a result of the types of financial arrangements which the Australian Government enters into with the United 
States Defence Department which are substantially unchanged since the fiasco in relation to the price of the Fl 1 Is. They were to be purchased at a stated price but arrived at a price many times the original. The three vessels appear to be in almost the same category. When ordered the two frigates had a price tag of $ 189m. The latest estimate for three ships is $900m. Part of the increased cost is due to escalation in the United States and part is due to the delays in decision making in Australia. One change which has taken place which may not have added to costs was due to a severe lag in the development program of the Mylloka sonar equipment which subsequently was not able to be placed on the Australian FFGs because the development program had fallen at least two years behind. 
Serious questions which must be asked in this House are: Is the new estimate correct? Is the price escalation justified as an exercise in financial management and what reliance can be placed in future defence orders for major items of equipment placed in the United States in view of what has occurred with the two most recent orders? I say this advisedly because we have under consideration a project, base priced at about $500m at this stage, for the purchase of a tactical fighter force in which three out of four possible aircraft to be chosen are from United States companies. An indicted cause of the escalation is the Australian Government's inability to make a decision on what types of helicopters will be placed on these vessels when they are required. The first is due into service in 1 98 1 . Because of the delays in the process by which the choice of a helicopter is made it is now estimated that helicopters will not be available for at least 1 8 months after the ships go into service. 
These vessels have been under consideration since at least 1973. So it would seem that the choice of the purchase of helicopters could have been finalised by this time. The helicopter has an effect on the structural costs of the vessels but it will have a very substantial effect on the capacity of these vessels to operate successfully. The helicopter is an integral part of the weapons systems of the ships. It will not be available because the Australian Government has not yet been able to make up its mind what helicopter it is going to buy. Another cost not yet determined is that of putting the Phalanx defence mechanism for close-in defence against precision missiles on the ships. At this stage, as far as we know, it is not intended to place that equipment on the ships. If it is not placed on these ships they will be very vulnerable to attack from precision missiles and could well be inoperable in a hostile situation because of that weakness. I ask that the Government give an explanation of the cost escalation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) What is the additional cost of purchasing vehicles with built-in airconditioning. 
What is the extra cost of having the standard radio receiver left in Commonwealth vehicles. 
-The Opposition welcomes the reference to the Public Works Committee of this proposed base and is anxiously awaiting the Government's announcement of similar proposals in respect of the base at Darwin which is under consideration and the base at Broome which was promised in the 1976 White Paper but which appears to have been lost in the area of forgotten things. Without going beyond the operations of patrol boats, I make the point that there is need for adequate base facilities around the northern Australian coast for the operation of these vessels. At present the basing arrangements are well below par and certainly do not constitute a reasonable set of facilities for operations of craft of this size. At the moment there is an inadequate facility at Darwin which the Department of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  has under consideration for presentation and there is also a proposal for replacement. There are almost no facilities between Darwin and Perth. The promise made in the White Paper in 1976, to this stage has not been fulfilled and there is no indication that either the Department of Defence or the Minister's Department has such a project under consideration. In this case the Minister is not responsible for the planning. He is responsible only for the carrying out of the work once the planning has been completed by the department concerned, in this case the Department of Defence. 
I raise this matter because this is one of the few opportunities which arise in this Parliament to deal with specific matters of this nature. Most people in northern Australia feel they are being neglected by the Commonwealth in the defence area. Delays in providing basic facilities for the operation of defence forces and surveillance forces for the protection of those areas are looked on as being evidence of a complete lack of concern by Canberra. 
The Opposition supports the reference and hopes that the proposals concerned will be found to be acceptable to the Public Works Committee and will be able to be proceeded with without any significant delay. They are part of a fairly expensive program in the two areas of Darwin and Cairns. There is, however, an urgent need for the Government to consider and to bring forward similar proposals in respect of the announced facility at Broome, if in fact that is still part of government policy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I give notice that at the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That a standing committee be appointed to maintain a continuing surveillance of the practices and procedures of the House of Representatives with a view to making recommendations which would enhance the role of the House and its operational efficiency. 
That the committee consist of four Government Members and four Opposition Members to be appointed by  Mr Speaker  after consultation with Party Whips. 
That  Mr Speaker  also appoint a  Chairman  of the Committee who shall have a casting vote only. 
That any additional terms of appointment of the committee be the subject of a subsequent resolution of the House. 
-The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  has made a long and detailed statement on the Government's defence considerations. I think the statement is something less than a policy statement on defence. As I understand that the debate will continue at a later stage I do not intend now to endeavour to reply to the whole statement. The statement contains some significant new developments and some significant omissions from previous statements. In the last few sentences the Minister made the point that the past can instruct and it is the future which concerns. Throughout the statement he made two points fairly regularly. One was that he hoped the defence debate in Australia would be a bipartisan debate on a high and significantly non-political plane about the actual performance or otherwise of defence. Interspersed with that point were a number of criticisms, of his own critics or the critics of the Government, and references to past performances by the Labor Government. There were no references to past performances by conservative governments. That may be accidental but it indicates the lack of a bipartisan approach on the part of the Minister. 
I shall deal with the references which the Minister made to the past because they are very relevant. It appears that the Government's stand on almost everything that comes before this House is based on what might have happened or what did happen between 1972 and 1975 and what it alleges has happened since. In the latter part of his speech the Minister referred to capital equipment purchases. He said that a lower sum was spent on capital equipment during the years 1972 to 1975 than was the case subsequently. He made a veiled reference to the fact that the Labor Party would not have paid for the equipment it ordered during the period it was in government. I find that statement remarkable. One thing I am sure of is that Australian governments of any colour have met their obligations wherever and whenever they have been placed. It ill becomes a Minister of the Crown to suggest that any Government would not have met those commitments. 
I presume that it came from the same place as the money will come for some of the things that the Minister has not mentioned in his program which the defence budget will have to meet in the not too distant future. I shall not refer to events prior to the Minister's occupying a position in the Ministry. In 1969 the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Fairhall,  in his speech on the Budget made the point that the Government had been forced, because of economic circumstances and the relatively advantageous equipment position of the Defence Force to make a real reduction in defence expenditure of 5 percent. 
In 1970 when the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was the Minister for Defence he announced a program of defence procurements which included a light destroyer patrol, 84 observation helicopters, 42 utility helicopters, 1 1 vertical take-off and landing aircraft, four support helicopters, a naval communications station at Darwin, the overhaul and modernisation of gun mounts on guided missile destroyers, two Oberon class submarines, six low cover radars, one logistic cargo ship for the Army, 10 additional Skyhawks for the Navy and two twin engine support and training aircraft. The first item on that list was subsequently cancelled in 1974 by  Mr Barnard  and replaced by the FFG program. That program is now in existence. The ships are about to be completed. The 42 utility helicopters were cancelled before the Labor Party came into office. The short take-off and landing fire support helicopter gunships were cancelled by the Gorton Government. I think the Minister for Defence was a Minister at that time. The overhaul and modernisation of gun mounts was transferred to Australian industry by the Labor Government when in office. The radars were cancelled and reinstated. The logistic cargo ship was reinstated after being cancelled by the Labor Party. The twin support and training aircraft were in the same position. 
During the last five years of conservative government prior to the change of government in 1972, $344m of new capital equipment was purchased. In the three years of the Labor Government the amount ordered or committed was $7 16m- an increase of nearly 100 per cent. Since the present Government has been in office, the percentage of gross national product devoted to defence has fallen. By way of comparison, the percentage of gross national product devoted to defence during three years of Labor Government was 2.63 whereas it was 2.6 during the period of the Liberal Government. One can make those figures mean anything. In the last Budget, the percentage of Budget outlays on defence, which most likely is the most relevant figure, fell from 8.9 to 8.7. The Minister says that he is about to correct that situation. I would like to believe him. 
The Minister says a lot of things in this statement which are so similar to the things said in the 1976 statement, that it is not funny. On that occasion the Minister made it quite clear that the Government felt that more effort must be devoted to defence and that a new program would be developed for defence expenditure, the total cost of which was estimated at $ 12,000m. It was indicated also at that time that the major portion of that expenditure would take place in the first three years of the program. That did not occur. The program consistently fell behind. I am glad that the Minister was able to inform us that he has a clear undertaking from the Cabinet that there will be a 2 per cent increase, in real terms, in defence expenditure. I would have preferred it if he had been able to tell us that defence would hold its share of Budget outlays or of the gross national product because those two areas tend to differ. Very often increases in real terms depend on how one works out one's figures. Defence expenditures are not necessarily relevant to domestic prices in Australia. In our major defence purchases, we do not necessarily operate within Australia. Rather we operate outside Australia and on a growing, rather than a declining cost market. 
The Minister made a fairly extensive statement on what he saw as the likely threats or the likely defence contingencies facing Australia in the not too distant future. It is quite clear that the statement is intended to defuse some of the more extravagant and some real criticisms which exist and which will continue to exist. Defence has always been an area in which there will be people who seriously and conscientiously believe that every man between the age of 18 or 19 and 90 should at least serve in the military forces for at least a large part of his life. That concept has not a great deal of relevance to current defence requirements. It has very little relevance to Australia's defence position at the moment. I think that unfortunately those who advocate such a policy, no matter how well-meaning, are in fact advocating a policy which would weaken rather then strengthen Australia's defence position. The resources which would be taken up in such an effort would be far greater than could be compensated by increased spending. The equipment which would have to be made available and the time for professional training of senior officers and officers who would be required to engage in such an activity would be such as largely to render impotent the Defence Force as a real military force in time of need. There is a concept of social obligation thinking in those who put forward that sort of proposition. 
There are a couple of other things which are important in this area. For example, the Minister has also made it clear that he sees no likely threat to Australia. He has made a very strong attack on those people who make any mention of invasion. Except for very minor contingencies- and I think the Minister has mentioned the type of contingency on other occasions- I agree with him. As the Minister has indicated, there is a very low possibility of any nation or group of nations in our area having the potential to mount an invasion force against the Australian mainland. There is an equally low possibility that such a nation or group of nations could successfully undertake such a venture. I think it is true that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States are the only countries which could do so in a relatively short period. There are few others that could undertake such a venture without a massive military expenditure, a fairly significant change in their political positions and a fair time scale well in excess of the 5-year period usually spoken of. I think it is also true that it is unlikely that either the Soviet Union or the United States would engage in any military venture against Australia in isolation and, I would hope, not in combination with any other group of people. We do face, and we will always face, the possibility of some minor hostilities and even the likelihood of such hostilities being mounted by someone who is not really capable of posing a significant military threat to Australia, but who could cause significant difficulties. Those are threats which the Defence Force has to and must take into account and which we, as a nation, must be prepared to meet. 
I am somewhat concerned about what the statement did not say. Although it mentioned planning for the retirement of HMAS  Melbourne,  it did not give any significant indication of the advance planning for the maintenance of the Austraiian naval force, which is the major maritime defence capacity that Australia has. It did not indicate significantly any timetable or real plans for the modernisation of the F-111 aircraft to bring about a full use of the potential that the aircraft has. It has a very great potential. It can only exercise that potential if it is equipped with the types of weapons which are mentioned in this statement. I am somewhat concerned that on the last occasion when the Minister made a statement relating to aircraft he indicated that the Mirage aircraft would be updated in a manner which would extend their life and increase their capacity in order to provide support for the tactical fighter force program when that was completed. It now appears that apart from the changing of the weaponry of these aircraft, other alterations have been dropped. That is most likely not an unreasonable proposition, but I would hope that the same thing does not occur in the case of the F-111s because, whilst there is a low level of threat, it would be too late to start equipping them with modern, precision weapons and the capacity to utilise their potential once a threat develops. 
In setting out what the Minister sees as the real needs of an Australian defence force and the contingencies for which we must be prepared, there have been some strange statementsstatements that concern me. They sound very much like those statements that were made before I became a member of this Parliament in the 1960s. I refer to statements like: 'We must sustain a defence force which supports our diplomacy so that both in combination effectively deter interference with Australian sovereignty'that is a reasonable proposition- and 'We need a defence force with capabilities affording the Government of the day the option of giving defence help to regional friends with whom we have common security interests'. We on this side of the House say that that sort of option should be written into properly negotiated treaties whereby Australia's legal positions and obligations are clearly understood and the rights of those countries with whom we would be seeking to act in unison would be clearly set out. 
There is another statement which merits the same type of criticism. That is: 
Like every country Australia must sustain its military standing in its geographical neighbourhood through which attacks upon its territory could be launched. 
There is no doubt that our diplomatic relationships with countries nearby have to be maintained at reasonably high levels. Equally, there is no doubt that, if necessary, we should be able to defend ourselves from attack from those quarters. This statement sounds very much like a movement back to forward defence, but I am not sure that our Defence Force can be adequately planned, structured and equipped to fight on overseas territory or to defend Australia. It is extremely important for us to make a decision on whether we are involved only in the defence of Australia or whether our Force has to have a multi-role capacity which would require a totally different concept in planning. This concept is not envisaged at the moment and, if adopted, it would significantly change the manner in which our Defence Force would develop. 
The Minister for Defence has effectively dismissed major threats against Australia. He has wrongly made comparisons between the efforts of one government and the efforts of another. In making his comparisons he has not retreated from claiming that equipment purchases which were initiated when the Labor Government was in office were correct. Currently those purchases form a major part of the equipment and the potential of our Defence Force. If during a short period a government spends a low proportion of its defence budget on capital equipment it is reasonable to assume that that is because the government which preceded it did not initiate equipment programs in the major areas. Equipment purchases, as we have seen with almost all of those made in recent years, are not concluded in a few days, a few weeks or even in a few years. Most items of equipment which were ordered in the 1969-72 period would have been delivered during the period the Labor Government was in office. The order for payment for the heavier items of equipment would have fallen due during that period. I exclude the purchase of the Oberon submarines which had a longer lead time. Items of equipment ordered during the period the Labor Government was in office almost certainly would not have been delivered during the period of that Government. The Leopard tanks, the Orions and other equipment which the Minister indicated as being satisfactory were actually ordered, or the projects were substantially concluded, during the period when  Mr Barnard  and  Mr Morrison  were Ministers for Defence. 
Several matters in the report are of interest. The Minister indicated the requirement for an Army of between 30,000 and 40,000 personnel. We can safely say that 32,000 comes within that range. The Minister said, however, that we have an Army preparedness of 54,000- citing 22,000 reserves. I dispute that. Whilst we may have 22,000 reserves I do not think that the capacity or the input exists for those 22,000 reserves to form an effective part of an Australian military force in a short period of time after mobilisation. The reserves are very much in the limbo of the defence areas. Whilst they are often spoken about they are not being provided with the levels of training, the incentives or the equipment which would project them in the way that the Minister projects them in his statement. I spoke about this matter on the last occasion when defence was before this House and I do not intend to do so in any significant fashion today. To suggest that the 22,000 reserves are in any way related to the 32,000 in regular military service is dangerously to overestimate the potential of the manpower available to the Australian Army. 
The naval position is of real concern. The major element of the fleet, the  Melbourne,  is due for retirement in six years. I am not sure whether economically or by any other means the date could be extended but a decision as to whether it is to be replaced certainly has not been announced, if it has been made. The means by which the role of the  Melbourne  is to be undertaken is of very considerable concern especially to the Navy but also to anyone who is interested in a balanced defence force. Today a real problem exists as to how certain roles should be carried out. There are alternatives and options which did not exist a few years ago and which do not necessarily meet the traditional structure or traditional lines of demarcation between the various forces. 
The  Melbourne  capacity replacement- I term it that way because I do not want to be involved in the replacement syndrome- if such is deemed to be required by our strategic situation, must be coupled with the potential age of most of our surface vessels- the blue water navy to which the Minister referred. We have three major ships under construction and these will come into service between now and 1985. At this stage no other vessels appear to be under consideration and there is no public discussion- I make that distinction- about a possibility of other types of vessels being considered for the Australian Navy. No other means are being suggested whereby we could cover that capacity and also meet the serious problem of almost all of our major fighting ships becoming due for retirement within the next 15 years. More than half of our major ships were built before 1960 and all of them came into service before 1970. This dates every one of them. The first of our Oberon submarines is currently in its half life refit. This effectively means that in the next 12 to 15 years we will have to look to replace those vessels which are now potentially our frontline defence weapon against maritime forces. 
The Minister mentioned the Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co. Pty Ltd which is seeking to interest the Defence Department in an ongoing program of replacement of those submarines when it falls due. I do not think that anyone who is seriously interested in defence would suggest that we can afford not to replace or to add to our submarine fleet. The Minister suggested fitting Harpoons to submarines for underwater usage. I understand that there are some difficulties involved and I would have liked the Minister to indicate some timetable for that development. Unfortunately public debate in Australia is not as easy as the Minister supposes and responsible public debate is even more difficult. It is made difficult by the lack of real information which is made available on Australia's defence and the lack of advanced discussion on Australia's defence needs and intentions. The Minister may well meet with his committee once a month. He may be extremely well informed of what is going on in defence areas. However, not only do decisions have to be made and justified in the cabinet room but also there is a need for a much broader acceptance of those decisions, a broader acceptance of their correctness and a broader knowledge of the basis on which those decisions are made. 
The Minister has made it quite clear that he does not believe that this Parliament should carry out investigative work in the defence areas. He has said that he accepts responsibility to the Parliament. Unfortunately, I must say, the Parliament and its members have to accept responsibility to the public. With the sort of decisionmaking necessary in defence I do not think it is reasonable that he and I- given that he makes it quite clear that I can have such briefings as I wish- should be the only persons in this Parliament to have access to major discussions or information on defence matters. The decisions are too important and mistakes can be too costly for it to be left to one or two individuals, no matter how much goodwill there is or how competent or incompetent those individuals happen to be. 
Other countries can discuss their defence matters publicly and in great depth without any serious threat to their security; without any serious threat to their actual defence force. In fact the defence force ultimately becomes stronger because these sorts of public discussions encourage and lead to better understanding. I am not one of those people who believes that the best decision is made in a situation when everyone agrees. It is rare indeed that such decisionmaking comes out right. The Minister made mention of the Press. I think it is unfortunate that the Press does not encourage greater debate within the political parties and within the Parliament. It discourages debate by using the time honoured tactic of always placing someone who is in disagreement in the position of dividing his political party or dissenting from the established view. Progress in science and in any form of endeavour is based on dissent from the established view. 
There is a significant problem facing Australia in the naval areas. We are not going to solve it easily. This statement does not even mention this problem other than in a passing reference to the  Melbourne.  Australia lacks- this statement does not seem to indicate any cure- significant defence potential in the whole of the northern area of Australia. In the 1976 statement there were indications that a patrol boat facility would be built between Cockburn Sound and Darwin. This is no longer mentioned. It has apparently been dropped. 
The Minister indicated that Learmonth will be updated or has been updated to major capacity for aircraft movements I would point out to the Minister that for the next six or seven years the Mirage aircraft is going to be our front line fighter aircraft. I understand that we have just purchased a new area for defence/exercises and if we can maintain it against the mineral companies we will have a valuable asset for training. I think it is fair to say that an operational Mirage cannot reach that area from Learmonth or Darwin to participate in these exercises. There is no other airfield in that area which would enable a Mirage, operationally loaded, to participate. Sometimes we have to think about those sorts of things. I realise that a new fighter aircraft is in the pipeline, but the pipeline is a very long one. It started way back in 1969, and it is now 1979. The Mirages range is not going to increase. It has already been indicated in this statement that we are not going to attempt to increase this range. 
There are a number of areas which I would like to question. I do not intend to deal with the technical areas. There are a couple of things that I would like to say to the Minister and on which I congratulate him. They are matters which I had hoped that he and his supporters would have been prepared to say when they were in Opposition. They gave the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  quite a bad time in regard to the non-foreseeable threat propositions, which came as a shock to the system at that time but which have been confirmed in each strategic review since that time. It is no good asking that the present Opposition accept that sort of proposition and ask us not to argue about differences or suggest that we are being political when in fact the Ministers of that day were attacked almost daily on the proposition that the then Opposition knew was a correct assessment of the strategic situation in Australia. 
And he lost his seat! 
His comments were about the Russian navy being no threat. 
-It does not alter the fact that his comments were right. You look at what was said on defence from 1972 to 1975. He was also attacked by a number of prominent Ministers at the time. The Opposition hopes that the statement and the Minister's indications in the statement represent a change of heart in public debate on defence. This statement contains a lot of proposals but very few concrete statements of actual performance. It contains some proposals which were set out in 1976 and which have subsequently slipped rather remarkably. It does not contain what I would suggest are any concrete suggestions for the manner in which defence expenditure in Australia is to be managed or guaranteed. It is no good and it is very dangerous to say that a certain amount of money will be available over a five-year period and subsequently those funds are not made available. The tragedy of the 1976 statement is that the Government's willingness to spend was seriously overstated. It is a waste of resources and does serious damage to the morale of those people responsible for planning if the expenditure that they are entitled to expect is not forthcoming, as happened in the 1976 program. 
I would like to suggest one concrete thing that ought to be considered by the Minister and the Government. The question of major capital equipment items should be the subject of legislative appropriation on an individual basis, rather than general appropriation from an overall defence budget. By those means the Parliament would be involved not only in the appropriation but in the continued cost of those items. The Department would know exactly where it stood. I think this occurs at least in Canada. It is a means of control and allocation which may stabilise defence equipment on major items. In the next 1 5 years- that is not very long- this Parliament and the Australian Defence Force will be faced with the need to retire what, at today's prices, would amount to something between $3,000 billion and $4,000 billion worth of capital equipment. That makes no mention of maintenance and neither does this paper. 
The military establishment and personnel at Darwin are still suffering from the effects of Cyclone Tracy. Apparently maintenance has been dropped by the Government as a significant proposition. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later time. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-I will speak very briefly in this debate. A lot of pious words will not change anything. Three weeks ago in this place not one honourable member on the Government side of the House objected to a statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  in which he made it quite clear that he considered that the Parliament had no role in the policy making function of government and had no right to examine expenditure proposals until after they had been made. Three years ago, after almost two years of study both inside and outside Australia, a committee of this House reported to this Parliament on the establishment of a committee structure for this House so that it could more effectively carry out its program. At the time of its report that committee was chaired by the former  President  of the Senate,  Sir Magnus  Cormack. It was previously chaired by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  who conducted the substantial part of its hearings. The facts are that, despite repeated promises to this House that a debate on that committee report would take place, nothing has ever happened; the debate has never been brought forward. That debate has been promised by the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  on a number of occasions. If we are to reform or to make more meaningful the procedures of this chamber, not only do we have to have reports and to talk in the Parliament, but also Government members have to make sure that the Government provides time in this Parliament to discuss the recommendations that come forward. Until that is done we may as well stop talking. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 February 1 979: 
Were mustering arrangements for airmen /aircrew changed in September 1977. 
If so, were amended salary rates arising from these changes (i) approved and (ii) announced in July 1 978. 
When will actual payments or adjusted salaries be commenced and from what date are the changes effective. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) Why were 25 airconditioned Commonwealth vehicles withheld from service in Melbourne on a recent Sunday when the temperature exceeded 40ยฐC. 
Why were drivers required to operate nonairconditioned vehicles in such extreme conditions while other airconditioned vehicles were available. 
3 ) How many drivers ceased work on that day on account of extreme working conditions. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) Have routine maintenance periods for Army transport and personnel carrying vehicles been extended; if so, by what period. 
Do the new maintenance schedules ensure that vehicles and equipment are satisfactorily protected against wear and deterioration. 
Are Army maintenance tradesmen grades being reduced. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 March 1 979: 
Does he propose to take action to eliminate the excessive delays in actual payment of increased salaries to Defence Force personnel. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports in the Sydney Press of Sunday, 18 March 1979, indicating that the Royal Australian Navy had not been able to sink a derelict barge. 
) If so, is there any substance in the reports. 
What (a) vessels and (b) weapons systems were used. 
Did any restrictions prevent the full use of appropriate weapons systems. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to claims, the subject of a question without notice on 20 March 1979  (Hansard,  page 862), that during a naval exercise  Hobart  and  Perth  between them fired 5 Tartar missiles, valued at $120,000 each, at a floating target. 
Is it a fact that not one of the 5 missiles fired hit the target, one being a complete fizzer, 2 dropping short and the other 2 only going close. 
Did the  Derwent  fire 2 Seacat missiles, valued at $65,000 each, at the same target and also miss. 
Did  Vendetta  fire some 72 shots from its 6/4.5 inch guns and of these shots only 2 hit the target failing to sink it. 
If so, why did expensive missiles like the Tartar and Seacat so consistently and expensively fail. 
Will he approach the suppliers of these missiles for replacement missiles with a guarantee of performance. 
-Any discussion in this Parliament on a national rail network or legislation to provide funds for a national rail network is a farce. The railways have been and continue to be the poor relations of Australia's transport. If this Parliament in the past had invested as much capital in the railway networks as it has in the air transport system, which is a competing and in some ways complementary system, the rail networks would be far more efficient and competent and better able to perform the functions that ought to be performed by the most efficient means of bulk transport available. In the area of bulk transport, the railways are the most efficient carriers, at least on land. If contracts let by public tender for the carriage of some goods are to be taken as a guide, the railways are probably the most efficient carriers of bulk goods available in Australia. Unfortunately, the railways have been and are the poor relations, and I am not referring here to the carriage of passengers. That is a liability which railways accept as a public service, not as a business operation, and it is a liability that should be met from public funds in order to provide a public service. 
This Bill appropriates an amount of money which most likely will provide only a few spikes in a couple of worn-out parts of the MelbourneSydney line and a few other minor repairs. It certainly will not improve in any way the existing standards of tracks or track maintenance or the efficiency of the rail systems in Australia. Those systems have been neglected almost to the point of scandal. This Parliament did not even interest itself in the railways until the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  became the Minister for Transport. At that stage the Parliament at least recognised the national and long-term importance of railways, and sought to do something about it. Having spent more time working in a railway system than in this Parliament, I think it is fair for me to say that one of the tragedies of the 1950s, the 1960s and the early 1970s was the manner in which governments allowed railways to drift into a situation of almost total inefficiency because of the lack of available funds. They do not perform the function for which they are best fitted and they do not operate in a matter which best meets the needs of the Australian economy. That is simply because governments have sought the easy way out. 
This is not an area where there is a great political return. In a State such as Victoria in recent years- in fact, over a long period of years- the expenditure of money has had more to do with political return than the needs of the State. The cost of neglect of railways in any State where there is an adequate railway system is that the roads are over-used because there is no alternative bulk transport network. The roads maintenance and construction programs of the State are exaggerated to levels beyond those which normally would apply, especially where main trunk railways systems exist but are not properly utilised. In Victoria over a 10-year period the same amount of money in cash terms was provided each year to the railways for increased capital works. One could imagine what that sum was worth at the end of the 10-year period. It was a very small amount of money. There was a total neglect of the system until it became rundown to the extent of being practically dangerous. A not dissimilar situation occurred in New South Wales. People were and are still operating high speed rail transport and goods systems, with equipment on basic tracks which are not suited to that type of operation. 
I raise one minor point. In Victoria a peculiar financial device called the Railways Appropriation Act is enacted each year. If any Minister for Finance tried to introduce such legislation here, we would drum him out of the place. In 1958 funds were appropriated for the duplication of the Geelong-Mel bourne railway line. We are promised in the current election campaign that that line will be completed shortly. Those funds were provided 25 years ago and at that stage there was some 25 or 30 miles of track to be duplicated. I have some doubts whether it will in fact be completed. The rolling stock is approximately 60 years old. No responsible Minister travels on the trains in winter time; rather, he has an air-conditioned vehicle. 
Unless a far more serious and constructive proposition with respect to railways is put not only before this Parliament but also before the State Parliaments the railways will continue to deteriorate. They will continue to be inefficient carriers of goods with the end result that the situation we see today in New South Wales, where there is a dispute between the State Government and the truck drivers over road tax and virtually over the state of the roads in New South Wales, caused by the very heavy use of those facilities for transport, will develop and grow in every State of Australia. Bulk transport needs the most efficient means of carriage. At one stage the Commonwealth Railways system was the world leader in the efficient utilisation of the facilities which were available. Commonwealth Railways was also a profitable organisation. It provided first-off services, services which were original and which performed a dual purpose. Not only did it generate business for itself but it did also relieve the roads of traffic by transporting bulk loaders across the Nullabor, for instance, at high speed, efficiently and more cheaply than they could be driven. It was an efficient, profitable service. Much of that initiative has gone because of lack of government support and because of a lack of support from this Parliament. That is the railway system which belongs to this Parliament. 
As I have already said, the State systems have been neglected beyond imagination. We have before us a Bill to provide $3m this year for rail services. A proportion of that sum is to be spent on the upgrading of the Melbourne-Sydney line. That amount will not get to first base in that work. It is not up to the amount of money that must be made available. The Federal Government provided far more than that for a passenger terminal for airlines in Melbourne, a place where people go to board their transport. It does not perform any function other than to keep the rain off and to house a few people who operate small shops and the people who collect the tickets. That is about the only function that it performs. Railway passengers going on exactly the same journey do not have anything like those sorts of facilities. They are the sorts of priorities at which we are looking and which this Parliament has had in the past and still has. Australia's internal national transport system is in a serious situation. There is an almost total lack of planning, a total lack of co-ordination and, if this Bill is any indication, a total lack of government acceptance of responsibility. 
-The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  has set out a program for future sittings. I want only to comment that it would be appropriate if the Government were to indicate to the House what business was to come before it. It would appear that so far the sittings of the House have been for the purpose of observing formality, not conducting business; that the Government is in fact struggling on a daily basis to bring forward matters for discussion. I suggest that if the Government does not have business sufficient to occupy the time of the House it should allocate more time to private members' business and let some of the matters, which the Parliament itself would like to discuss, be discussed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-A couple of weeks ago this House and the nation were exposed to a situation in which the Government, which came to office on a policy of federalism and acceptance by States of responsibility for State actions, threatened one government, which happened to be of a different political colour, with a censure because of spending or administrative proposals. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  thought that would be politically advantageous, to hum in particular. I wish to discuss in the House today the sorts of consequences that should flow from any such decision. They are consequences which have to be applied equally. I know of no suggestion from the Prime Minister that he would be looking at the spending programs in Victoria and cutting back the State 's allocation of funds if they are not responsibly managed and handled. To be quite honest, if the Victorian Government were subjected to that sort of scrutiny it would not get any funds at all. If the Cabinet in that State were a set of company directors it would not only be under investigation by the Corporate Affairs Commission but also it would be charged with presenting a false prospectus and with mishandling funds with which it was its responsibility to deal. 
In recent months a number of matters have come before the public in this country which are connected directly with the administration of public funds, funds which are raised and distributed on an agreement basis by the Government of Australia. I wish to deal with one or two such matters. We are all aware of the public scrutiny which is required for public expenditure to be approved by this Parliament. The area of public works is a fair example of an area which receives that type of public scrutiny. The usual public tendering process does not even exist in Victoria. Certainly, there is more than adequate evidence that patronage does exist in the process of dealing with public tenders. There is equal evidence, and evidence which can be substantiated, that the funds of that State are distributed very largely on the basis of a requirement that the people who obtain work and obtain contracts should be subtantial contributors to a particular political party, which happens to form the government of that State. The major contracting firms which are listed and which obtain the most substantial contracts in that State provide members to the State finance committee of the Liberal Party. 
Not very long ago a public scandal which should have brought any government down involved the sale of a building to that particular political party. When challenged in the Parliament the Minister responsible denied any knowledge of the matter. The Premier and another Minister who had negotiated on that sale and who had negotiated terms of government expenditure on the building after the sale, failed completely to inform the Parliament that he had misled it on that occasion. There was a public inquiry. In Victoria public inquiries are conducted on the basis that if the inquiry brings down a favourable report the promotion of the inquirer is fairly substantially guaranteed. Where it is not favourable to the government-  Mr Beach  could vouch for this- the situation will be made difficult for that person. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for La Trobe remain silent. 
-I wish to deal with one particular matter concerning construction, a project which could not have passed this parliament because the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Public Works would not have accepted the way in which it was done. State public offices were to be built in Geelong and the contracts were let in a situation of desperation. The Government had been promising those offices for nearly 20 years. The contracts were let on a non-tender, nondesign, non-specification basis, in very much the same way as we bought the FFGs. 
A letter was written to the effect that we would have a building which would be an inverted triangle and which would be 1 1 storeys high and asking that it be built. That is the sort of contract the State Government let. When the initial designs were completed the building had not only exceeded its site, but it was also out over a road and halfway across a park opposite. That is how far out the design was. The building had to be completely redesigned. There was no government input or government control over the whole project. The building has now been completed. It is not a bad building. It has some magnificent facilities. It has a very expensive kitchen, something like $250,000 worth, which the Government has no intention of providing staff to man. That project would not have got through this Parliament. It is a case of complete lack of financial management. There is another area in which I think this Parliament ought to be concerned. 
-I do not think so. I think the honourable member for La Trobe will receive his gratuities from the parliamentary pension fund; I will not. 
-I do not think so. I think the people in Geelong know what is honest and what is not. The fact of the matter is that this was a patronage contract. It was a contract which was based substantially on providing a quick construction of a building in order to look good in an election. The waste of public funds was of the order of 12V4 per cent to 15 per cent of the cost of the project. It was a straight waste because of the lack of administration or control by an incompetent government which has very little acceptance of responsibility for distribution of public funds in the State of Victoria. 
I wish to raise one other matter which I think is equally significant. If we look at today's Press we will find mention of a $55m loss by the finance company Associated Securities Ltd. At least one of the directors of that company, and I think all of them, have occupied positions on the Liberal Party finance committee in Victoria. Some have actually occupied the position of director of finance in that party which happens to have $1.3m in its slush fund. It had that amount after the two most expensive elections ever conducted in the State of Victoria by any political party. If that is not the result of patronage, I challenge the Victorian Liberal Party to put forward its balance sheets for the last five years so that we can see where the funds came from. An amount of $1.3m of surplus funds immediately after an election is a lot of money. It takes a lot of explaining. 
Associated Securities Ltd went into receivership on 8 February this year. In January of this year one of the better-known directors was advising friends to invest in the company, with the result that people lost their savings. On 18 January a pensioner from my electorate who had some savings submitted $5,000 to the company. He received a reply two weeks after the company had gone into liquidation, accepting his investment in the company, with the result that his $5,000 has been reduced to something of the order of $150. The directors of the company knew that the company was in trouble at that time. They knew it and they allowed and encouraged people to invest in the company. If that was not a criminal act it ought to be deemed one because it robbed people of their savings by using as an incentive for investment the standing and acceptance in the community of people of very great repute. These people are said to have been dormant directors whose names were added to the company. The fact of the matter is that they were not dormant directors. 
I want very quickly to raise one other matter. The New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission and Victorian law requires regular statements of company operations to be submitted. At the vital time in the Associated Securities Ltd case these financial details were not submitted and the company at the time that the investigations to which I refer were being made was in breach of the Act. It would not publish its figures because that would have warned people not to invest. It accepted money under false pretences and used the names of such people as  Sir Henry  Bolte,  Sir Reginald  Ansett and  Sir Cecil  Looker to attract capital improperly. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I claim to have been substantially misrepresented in a portion of my speech. The honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short),  I think honestly, took a remark that I made to be a reflection on the judiciary. The remark was not a reflection on the judiciary. It was a remark about the manner in which the Victorian Government applies improper pressure to members of the judiciary by the use of appointments and subsequent appointments to the Bench. It is the practice of the Victorian Government to appoint Queen's Counsel to these positions. Subsequently those QCs are appointed to judicial positions, almost without exception. The Government makes the appointment. It holds over a royal commissioner the right to appoint to various levels. In the specific case that I mentioned, that of  Mr Justice  Beach, he waited longer for appointment than any other commissioner or royal commissioner in modern history. That is a fact. It is a case of improper pressure and improper practices by a State government in its appointment procedures. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the motion moved by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott),  which provides for the commencement of the first stage of a long process which we hope will not become elongated with the passage of time. The motion is an historic motion in that it represents the first proposal on the construction of a new and permanent parliament house to come before this House, if my arithmetic is correct, in about 56 years. On a previous occasion the House rejected the design proposed. Since then, we have had a temporary building, which has survived the rigours of time, despite the assaults on it by all manner of people, elements and some serious assaults on the parliamentary institution by designers of its extensions. 
The Opposition is a little disappointed that the Government's construction authorities apparently will be excluded from the design competition. It might well be that within the Government's expertise there exists people who are more competent to deal with the construction design for the new parliament house than there are available outside the Government. We hope that the competition, which is to choose an architect, brings forward a person who not only is capable of designing a major national building but also has a capacity to design a building which will function as a parliament. Around the world there are a number of examples of very beautiful houses of parliament which are architectural monuments but which bear no relationship whatsoever to the functional aspects of parliaments. In fact, they really have no capacity to facilitate the conduct of a parliamentary institution. The first priniciple to be considered is that the building is to be a parliament house. The person chosen to. design the building must understand the intricacies and the idiosyncracies of the operations of a parliament. 
The Opposition does not oppose the passage of this motion. It is a machinery motion which will enable the process of at least getting to first base on the construction of a new parliament house. However, it is to be hoped that we do not go through the sorts of processes which we could go through over a period of years whereby, with changing governments, in order to meet daytoday political needs, we destroy what could be and what I am sure will be a building which is of major benefit to the nation on a long-term basis- a building which very few of us will actually use. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) What offset orders arising from the contract to purchase Leopard Tanks have been placed with Australian firms. 
What contracts have been offered to Australian firms but not finalised. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
Is he satisfied that adequate security exists to protect telephone communications to the Department of Defence and other national key points in Canberra. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
How many antennae/radomes are (a) operating and ( b) under construction at (i) Pine Gap and (ii) Nurrungar. 
When were those currently in operation installed at each location. 
-I ask the Minister for 
Defence whether it is a fact that arrangements have been made for the Special Air Service regiment to provide entertainment at the birthday party of  Mr Lang  Hancock. Who will meet the bill for this entertainment? Will the same provisions be made for the costing of this entertainment by this regiment as are made for the provision of Service bands to organisations such as the ex-servicemen's widows association and others who have sought and been charged for the use of Service facilities? What cover will be available to members of the regiment for risks they may incur during parachute jumps or other operations in which they are involved? 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
1 ) Has Telecom undertaken a survey of pensioners in receipt of telephone rent rebates in the Geelong area. 
How many pensioners have received requests for information about the income of other persons living in their home who are not pensioners. 
Is the Government seeking to reduce the number of pensioners in receipt of phone rent rebate. 
Is this survey part of a general Government policy to reduce assistance to low income families and recipients of social security. 
5 ) Who requested the survey of pensioners. 
When did a similar survey of pensioners' eligibility occur. 
-by leave-The extension of the rules on flags will take away what is a small difficulty in the community with regard to elderly citizens clubs and other groups who are regularly making requests. It may be a better idea if the Government made a package allocation of the three items. I rise to mention one other category. I think this should make it possible for persons to obtain the Australian flag. I hope that the category of community organisations will be interpreted liberally. But every year numbers of people leave Australia as direct representatives of organisations, some of which are mentioned and some are not. For example there are exchange students and people in other categories. They are supplied with a fairly significant package of material by the Information Services Division. I am sure that that material is welcome. 
I think it would be unreasonable if the Government extended the issue of smaller Australian flags with the other material. I do not think that the Queen's portrait would be appropriate but the national anthem cassette would. This could be supplied to people going overseas representing Australia in circumstances where they are entitled to fit into that categorisation, and who would be assessed appropriately by honourable members who would know the basis on which they were going overseas and who they were representing. I raise this matter for the consideration of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  because I think that most members of this House have fairly wide ranging requests made from people going overseas for material and related matter which is significant to Australia and which can be used to advertise their country while away. 
asked the Minister for Post and 
Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) Does the Barton, ACT, telephone exchange serve (a) Parliament House, (b) the Treasury, (c) the Department of Foreign Affairs, and (d ) the Defence Department. 
If so, what security arrangements exist to protect such a key national communication nerve centre. 
Do alternative exchange facilities exist in each instance. 
Have security arrangements been reviewed following the alleged proposal to attack Sydney's water supply earlier this year. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) Has the Government decided to stop fitting sun visors to Commonwealth vehicles operating in Melbourne. 
) If so, what is the estimated saving per vehicle. 
3 ) Will the absence of the sun visor result in drivers working in direct sunlight in temperatures over 40ยฐC for extremely long periods. 
Is he satisfied that the savings warrant the deterioration in drivers ' working conditions. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 6 March 1 979: 
What are the grades and functions of redundant civilian Defence personnel positions referred to in his answer to a question without notice on 1 March 1979.  (Hansard,  page 510). 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 29 March 1 979: 
1 ) Did his Department recently acquire an area of land at Yampi Sound, Western Australia, as a military training area. 
) If so, what was the area. 
What previous use was made of the land. 
Does his Department's occupancy exclude any control over mineral exploration and development. 
Has any mineral exploration taken place on the land; if so, with what results. 
Will State authorities have control of mineral exploration in the area; if so, on what basis. 
Is a continuation of mineral exploration and resultant extraction compatible with the use of the area for defence exercises. 
Will his Department be responsible for any accidents which may occur as a result of unexploded ammunition et cetera. 
-by leave-The Opposition does not quarrel with the statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  The Actuary has in fact reported that surplus funds do not exist. There will be considerable disappointment among a number of members who have been members of both funds and had some expectation that some distribution would take place. I do not think it is unrealistic to say that those who did in fact transfer from the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund to the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme would have obtained substantial benefit from that transfer and from the introduction of the new fund, far in excess- I would have thought- of the possible excess contributions that they may have made prior to the introduction of the new scheme under the terms of the new scheme, had it been applied in retrospect, which I am not sure is a good policy. However, there is still an outstanding matter arising from the change in the fund. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has given undertakings that he would make certain alterations to the fund, and the Government has indicated that it has had them under study for some time. The people who expect those alterations are becoming doubtful that they will ever take place. 
During the period 1975 to 1977 a former member for Herbert in this House,  Mr Duke  Bonnett, was given the responsibility of operating as a committee of one to inquire into the disadvantages of pensioners under the DFRB scheme as compared to persons who retired subsequently under the new scheme, especially in the period shortly after transfer.  Mr Bonnett  completed his report and presented it to the Prime Minister, after he had ceased to be a member of this Parliament. I understand that he still had the imprimatur of the Government and the Prime Minister, in that it was a governmentsponsored inquiry. I point out to the House that  Mr Bonnett  had to pay for his own typing and assistance as the Government refused to provide even basic reimbursement for his work in preparing the report for the Government. I think that is just an indication of the petty meanness which most governments would not indulge in. Apparently the present Prime Minister did not want the report and therefore did everything possible to make it difficult to be presented. 
The fact is that the report has now been in the hands of the Government for over 18 months. No indication has been given to anyone as to whether the report will be acted upon and whether those retired persons, who are under substantially reduced conditions compared to persons who retired under the new scheme, will in fact have the anomalies removed. The difference in pension between that of a person who retired on 1 January 1974 and that of one who retired on 1 December 1972 is up to $2,000 a year, even though the rate of contribution for the latter was higher in comparison to his salary at that time. The Government has an obligation to consider the report which the Prime Minister authorised and that the parties informing the Government approved. If the Government intends to reject the report it ought to say so. If it does not intend to reject the report it ought to indicate what action it will take. Persons who retired from the defence forces in 1972 or earlier are getting older and if the Government waits long enough it will not have to act on the report; there will be no one left as a beneficiary of the fund. I ask the Minister for Defence to take these matters into consideration. I understand that the Prime Minister has the carriage of that report and I seek from him an undertaking that he will consider it. If it has been considered I ask him to act upon it. 
-by leave-The statement made by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  is incorrect in that it says that the Government cannot agree with indexation. The recommendation of the Remuneration Tribunal is that the decisions in the national wage case be applied in the terms in which the national wage case decisions are given, which is not indexation in the true meaning of the word. The other remark I make relates to the provision of staff for the Opposition. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  reduced by six the number of persons recommended by the Tribunal. He allocated five persons to the back bench of the Government, which was not recommended by the Tribunal. Therefore those staff members are additional to those made available to the Opposition. He then changed the terms under which the appointments of staff were to be made in such a way as to make the financial obligations on the Government similar or more than would have been the case had he implemented the Tribunal's recommendations. It was not a cost saving exercise; it was an exercise in semantics. He exceeded the Tribunal's recommendations in relation to Government members. I do not object to what was done in that regard. However, he refused to implement the Tribunal's recommendations in relation to the Opposition. Had he done so it would have meant no additional cost to the Government. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) What capital defence equipment items have been the subject of firm procurement orders placed since 1 January 1976. 
With which firms were orders placed. 
What was the project cost at the time of placing the order. 
What is the estimated cost in each case at 1 January 1979. 
I wish to raise one or two matters which are legitimate adjournment debate subjects. I think that the illegitimacy of the remarks of the previous  speaker  was evident to every member in the chamber. The two matters I raise are both important and both have some significant connection with my electorate. The first is the fiftieth anniversary of the Apex clubs. Apex clubs were founded in 1931 in Geelong in Victoria. The organisation has progressed to the stage where it is a major international young men's club. It has asked the Australian Postal Commission to issue a commemorative stamp in order to honour its fiftieth anniversary. To date the application has been rejected. 
I have put a question on the Notice Paper about it. I question the propriety of that rejection. Firstly, it was the practice in the past, when the Post Office was run by the Postmaster-General's Department, to honour such anniversaries. The Rotary clubs have had two fiftieth anniversary stamps issued in Australia. One was for Rotary International and the other was for the fiftieth anniversary of the organisation's establishment in Australia. The Young Men's Christian Association, the Lions clubs and the Christian Women's Association have all had commemorative stamps issued for the same reasons. The application of the Y's men's club was rejected on the grounds that the organisation was a derivative of the YMCA. Apex is the only men's club of international standing which was established in Australia. I believe that Australians ought to show some pride in that fact. The Postal Commission should reverse its attitude. It should also look at the criteria it uses for design. We produce more stamps with an abstract design in Australia than there are abstracts in any modern art gallery in the world and certainly in any other country in the world. They have designs which one cannot recognise the meaning of. I raise this matter because I believe it is about time that someone showed a little pride. It is all very well to undertake public relations gimmicks but the Apex organisation is something we have a right to be proud of. 
The other matter I wish to raise concerns the cessation of the publication of Commonwealth Employment Service figures on a regional basis. Last month's unemployment figures were not available to anyone on a regional basis. The only continuing records which have been publicised over any significant period on which one can judge the movements in unemployment are the records of regional CES offices. The figures may not be accurate. That is not terribly important. They reflect trends and show movements. They have significance. They are no longer available. It is said that they will eventually be published when the figures of the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs are available, some three months after the event. 
This is a ridiculous situation. It has a lot to do with trying to hide the truth from people. It has important consequences for people who are responsible for planning and for trying to view trends. It also has some consequences for people looking for places where they might establish industries. The CES figures are one of the few sets of figures which give some guide to the availability of labour in regional areas I know that some of these figures can be given confidentially but the refusal to publish them is to act like an ostrich. It is an attempt to bury our heads in the sand and pretend that things do not happen. It is in line with what happened in this House a number of years ago. We remember a former Prime Minister saying that the only real figures were the seasonally adjusted figures. Two months later he said that the seasonally adjusted figures did not mean anything and that the actual figures were the important ones because they happened to support his case. Subsequently, the seasonally adjusted figures, which probably were the only accurate ones, disappeared because they adversely affected the Government. 
-I suggest that our boy Rip Van Winkle should look into the past to the time he went to sleep. That is when those statements were made. 
Order! It being 1 1 p.m. the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m., tomorrow. 
-I refer the Treasurer to the defence estimates contained in his Budget Speech. Is the inclusion of an allowance of $30m for prospective wage and salary increases in Defence a departure from the standard budgetary procedure? If so, why have similar provisions not been made for wage and salary increases in all areas of public administration? If this procedure had not been adopted, would the increase in defence spending in real terms have been 1.4 per cent instead of the 2.6 per cent claimed in his speech? Without this substantial allowance for wage increases would the share of government outlays devoted to defence have been 9 per cent- the same as last year's expenditure- not 9. 1 per cent, as claimed in the Budget Speech? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In a document distributed through the Prime Minister's public relations network, there is included what purports to be a copy of a speech which I made in this House on Tuesday. The copy of that speech, which is probably in breach of privilege- I do not raise that matter here- is inaccurate in that words are incorrectly stated. I will read my actual remarks to solve the problem of going through the whole matter. In respect of the actual report on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and the fact there was no distributable surplus, I stated: 
I do not think it is unrealistic to say that those who did in fact transfer from the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund to the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme would have obtained substantial benefit from that transfer and from the introduction of the new fund, far in excess- I would have thought- of the possible excess contributions that they may have made prior to the introduction of the new scheme under the terms of the new scheme, had it been applied in retrospect, which I am not sure is a good policy. However, there is still an outstanding matter arising from the change in the fund. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has given undertakings that he would make certain alterations to the fund, and the Government has indicated that it has had them under study for some time. 
The last sentence is not quoted in the Press statement issued on behalf of the Prime Minister's public relations network, purporting to be a statement of mine in those terms. I draw the attention of the House to this matter because these statements are being issued in the names of members of the Opposition without their knowledge, without knowledge of the extent of their distribution and therefore without any opportunity for Opposition members to correct them. These statements purport to contain remarks made in this House which are not necessarily accurate. In this case I think the errors are in transcribing. I do not think the transcribing was done by  Hansard  but by other persons. In the typing there is one case where a 'not' is reported as a 'nor'. I think,  Mr Speaker,  you would understand that that can make a lot of difference to the meaning of a sentence. 
-by leave-The statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  can be described only as one which leaves one with a feeling of almost hopelessness for the future of our Defence Force. According to the figures published in the Budget Papers- I look forward to the Minister's explanation of them- approximately 9 per cent of total Budget outlays will go to defence. The increase in real terms about which the Minister spoke is, I think, largely illusory. The Budget figures show that the cost of defence equipment and the cost of maintaining the Defence Force are advancing at a rate significantly faster than was set out by the Minister when equating the increase in real terms. An item of $30m has been included in the estimates for this year. Whilst that figure was part of the total defence vote for last year it was placed elsewhere in the estimates at that time. Therefore the basis of comparison changes. 
The Minister chose to use real figures in some parts of his statement and in other parts he used estimates. I draw attention to one part of his statement where he did that. In his statement the Minister indicated that in this year's Budget the provision for capital equipment is 23 per cent higher than it was in the 1978-79 Budget. Based on last year's estimates that figure is correct, but based on actual expenditure the increase is 6.8 per cent. I do not think that those sorts of figures help our consideration of defence matters. This year's share of gross national product diverted to defence is approximately 2.55 per cent. That represents the lowest share of gross domestic product devoted to defence since 1949-50. 
Enormous problems are accumulating because the Government continues to defer the placing of major orders for defence requirements. Some of those orders could be placed. Its lack of action will mean that in the mid-1980s the capital equipment budget for defence will be of such a size that regardless of which party is in government it will probably be unable to be met. This year, as in recent years, the major proportion of capital equipment expenditure in the Budget allocations is for items ordered some years ago. Since the 1976 White Paper on defence was brought forward new equipment orders have consistently fallen behind the program set down by the Government. Still further behind are replacement orders or orders for new equipment required by the Defence Force. 
I wish to point to some of the problems which will confront the Minister for Defence, whether it be the present Minister or some other person, in the very near future. At present the Navy has 12 major ships and three vessels are on order. It has already been announced that one of those 12 ships is due to retire later this year or early next year. Another is due out of the fleet in 1985. I refer to the major unit of the fleet, HMAS  Melbourne.  All the other vessels have had half life refits and can be said to be moving towards the time when their continued operation will be at the expense of defence capacity. Apparently no decision has been made regarding the future of naval air power, maritime air power, or maritime capacity. A further study will be undertaken. 
HMAS  Melbourne  has five years of its effective life to run. Whether a vessel with similar capacity will be provided for the Navy or whether another form of maritime air power will be evolved is a decision which has enormous consequences for the future shape of our maritime forces. It has enormous consequences for the capital equipment component of our Budget. The cost of a new carrier, or a replacement carrier with equipment which is adequate to make that replacement a worthwhile investment, would be not less than $500m at current prices, and probably nearer to $ 1,000m. That expenditure must be coupled with additional expenditure for the provision of support vessels for that new unit of the fleet and for the shape of the fleet required. 
Because of the present state of naval technology carriers are extremely difficult to defend. If it is decided that that form of capacity is not to be maintained but that another form of maritime capacity is to be evolved, planning for that replacement should take place at the earliest possible date. Resources which are currently used for the training of personnel and the maintenance of the existing maritime capacity should be made available to provide the necessary capacity to replace HMAS  Melbourne.  I think that this is common sense. I do not think that to date the time made available for these studies has been in excess of that which should have been required for a decision to be made with regard to the tactical fighter force. If we are to have three squadrons of aircraft by the time the Mirage becomes ineffective as a weapons system- I think that time has arrived already but that is a matter for other people to judge - 
If the honourable member is an expert, that is for him to decide. I am not an expert. I said that it is for other people to decide. Approximately 75 aircraft are desirable in order to provide a reasonable air capacity for our Defence Force by the end of the 1980s. I doubt whether budgetary constraints will allow that capacity to be achieved. Nevertheless, if we use the Minister's figures the achievement of that capacity represents an expenditure of approximately $ 1,500m which must be provided for in the capital equipment section of the Budget during that period. That figure is in addition to the cost of a carrier and in addition to other extensive costs associated with maintaining existing facilities. 
The current age and state of technical competitiveness of Navy surface vessels is alarming to say the least. Even the most recent fleet units, HMAS  Swan  and HMAS  Torrens,  are more than 10 years old. Given that the life of a surface vessel can be extended to around 25 years- I think that with the changes in modern technology that is doubtful- every unit of our present surface fleet will have reached the stage of obsolescence and of being incapable of meeting modern requirements within 13 years. Allowing for the three vessels that are on order, and ignoring the  Melbourne,  to maintain existing capacity we are confronted with a requirement for eight vessels. If a decision to acquire those vessels is ultimately taken it will cost not less than $200m per vessel- $ 1,600m in the next 13 years. It will cost $ 1,500m for TFFs and $ 1,000m or slightly less for an aircraft carrier plus associated equipment. They are the major items which catch one's eye easily. 
Since 1977 we have been deferring replacement of the 5.5 inch guns for the Army. We have now reached the stage where it is unreasonable to expect the Army to put many more than a dozen guns in the field in case of emergency. Those guns would be outranged and certainly way below current military technological capacities. The cost of replacements would be of the order of $lm to $1.5m per gun. The 105 mm light guns may be more difficult to replace because it is now apparent that most of the world's armament makers have ceased manufacture of that type of weapon. The new orders announced in this Budget amount to approximately $180m. Over the next 15 years we will have cumulative requirements for capital equipment costing in excess of $4.5 billion. The Government is repeating almost exactly its performance of the late 1960s. In 1969 the then Minister for Defence, in a statement delivered at the same time of the year as the current statement, outlined a list of requirements which would be met for the defence forces. One year later the present Prime Minister rescinded the majority of those equipment purchase plans. 
Today, because of that decision not to proceed with equipment purchases in 1 970, the Minister for Defence is able to say that there is to be a substantial increase in the amount of money spent on equipment this year as compared with 1974-75. The facts are- the Minister is as aware of this as I am- that the reason money was not spent on equipment purchases in that period is that the orders were not placed in earlier years. Therefore the equipment was not being delivered. The same situation will occur in about three years when the major items which make up the current equipment budget are paid for. At least that will be something. There will then be a lag in orders which will be followed by a massive build-up in financial requirements. 
There is a serious problem in this situation. If the average expenditure in real terms remains the same but fluctuates wildly because of the way in which payments and budget allocations are made, effects must flow through to recurring expenditures within the Defence Force. I think it is a fault in the budgetary system that ought to be corrected. Nevertheless, it has not been corrected and therefore we have a situation in which in one year 6 per cent or 7 per cent of the defence vote may be required to meet existing debts or repayments for equipment and in another year the figure may grow to 1 4 per cent. It is not as easy to manipulate other sections of the defence budget to meet that requirement. The Minister almost totally neglected to mention other areas. 
-I am fully aware of that but I think that on some occasions, even if the Government cannot meet the requirements of the Defence Force, the House is entitled to know exactly the problems that confront the nation. I think that is very serious. 
-I have read that speech. I found it different from the one in October and different from the one that has just been delivered. There is no mention in the statement of helicopters for the FFGs. If they are not ordered this year it is likely, given the normal delivery processes, that they will not be available for three to four years after the vessels are actually in service. If the helicopters are a vital part of the defence mechanism of the vessels, as I am sure they are, it seems to me that this would place the vessels at risk. There is no mention of the replacement of our minesweeper capacity or the mine hunters, mention of which has been made on a number of occasions in past years. Apparently at this stage provision for this area has slid out of the program. Those vessels are now 25 years old or older. The Minister has indicated that $43m will be spent on the upgrading of the Mirage aircraft- a doubtful investment, nevertheless one on which I think the Minister has decided on advice. He did not indicate, and I am not aware, whether the Swiss study of the capacity of the Mirage aircraft's airframe to withstand an extended life- on which our future decision depends- has been completed and is available. If it is not available the statement in the Budget either anticipates the results of that study or indicates that we are prepared to take a risk with the aircraft's stability. I hope the latter is not the case. 
-An amount of $43m has been allocated. In the past the Minister has indicated that the allocation would be dependent on a study the completion of which to my knowledge has not been announced. In the previous statement the Minister announced that firm plans exist for a follow-on destroyer program, having announced three months earlier that a study was under way. I am not now sure which is the case but I am fairly certain that the study is still proceeding. 
There are contradictions among the last three defence statements announced in this House, and they are very serious. There is no mention in the statement of any anti-armour capacity for the Army being purchased or being in the pipeline. This also is a deficiency which no defence force that is required to defend itself could afford to have continue. In this year's Budget I note a figure of $20m to provide for increased fuel costs. The Minister has indicated that there will be a 1 9 per cent increase in the funds available to build up reserves in the areas of support. That 19 per cent increase reflects only the ill-advised reductions in last year's Budget. Last year's Budget provided for the reduction of reserves of fuel as a fund-saving exercise. This year we will restore the reserves at twice the price. 
Another area which is of serious concern is that there is no mention of the changing of the computer capacity and electronics of the Fill aircraft. It appears that the Government has decided that the strategic situation is such that Australia can continue to have these aircraft without an adequate capacity for offensive or defensive action for at least a further 12 months. I would have thought, given the limitation on the availability of funds, the capacity of these aircraft and the importance of their role in the current concept of our defence, that the changing of the computer capacity and electronics of the Fill aircraft and the equipping of them with modern precision weapons would have been a very high priority in the estimates for the Department of Defence. These aircraft are extraordinarily good at finding a target. Until such time as they have a capacity to deal with a target they are a useless defence platform. Although this reequipment work was mentioned in earlier statements as proceeding, it is not mentioned in this statement. If a choice has to be made, the FI 1 1 aircraft is a better investment than the Mirage because there is some doubt about its capacity and there is serious doubt about its actual performance capacity as a modern fighter aircraft. In this statement by the Minister there is an air of complacency which is dangerous. 
-The Minister has managed to arrange his briefing at exactly the - 
-I note that the Minister has arranged his briefing at exactly the same time as the Defence Sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is holding public hearings. I also note that his briefing was timed to start five minutes ago. 
Well, it is possible. After all, it is rare that any information is advanced on these matters. I return to the point I was making. The conservative parties in Australia have always been long on rhetoric and extremely short on performance. I hope that at some time in the future a conservative government and the Minister will match the levels which he set for other 
Ministers when he was in Opposition. A reading of speeches made in 1974 and 1975, 1 think, will indicate the shortfalls in performance which are at present evident in the defence area. I reiterate that the constant deferment of taking action on major programs and apparent shortfalls of equipment items in the middle range which will fall back, on top of expensive equipment items which are of an enormous magnitude, will cause budgetary problems in the future which it will be almost impossible to meet. 
The Government is now, as it was in the late 1960s and early 1970s, depending on what it plans to do, claiming credit for what has already been done, and, I am sorry to say, regularly reducing the share of the gross national product which is to be allocated to the defence vote. The Opposition views this statement with extreme concern and draws the attention of the House to the fact that in future years other Ministers will be criticised because of the shortfalls which are occurring in the Government's defence program at this time. 
Motion ( by  Mr Newman)  agreed to: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I would like to debate the issues raised by the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates),  but I do not think that in five minutes one can do justice to them. However, I point out to the honourable member that in 1976 the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  gave an undertaking to this House that the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System, which sat at fairly great expense to this Parliament and which brought down a unanimous report from both sides of the House, would be debated in this chamber. A number of changes to the Standing Orders and Sessional Orders have been introduced which at one time would have come from a debate in this chamber on a recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee. There certainly would have been a co-operative effort, agreed to by both sides of the House. But we now have a situation whereby changes are one-sided. The Opposition is consulted only about the introduction of already defined rules. Once that becomes the practice- it appears that this Government has decided that it will be the practice- then the House itself loses control of its opportunities to fix the Standing Orders which not only protect the Government's right to govern and to have its business conducted but also affect the Parliament's right and the rights of members of the Parliament, including the members of the Government who passively have agreed to this change in procedure over the last few years. It affects the rights of members of the House to protect their own rights vis-a-vis the Standing Orders and the chamber itself. Until the last time a major report of the Standing Orders Committee was received it was the practice to debate changes to all Standing Orders and to the administration of this chamber. It is unfortunate that no report of that Committee has been debated in this chamber in the last seven years. 
It is because no government has been prepared to allocate time for such a debate. A very important report of the Standing Orders Committee was presented here on two occasions, that is in 1972 and in 1974. Both sides of the House, at a government level, chose not to provide time for debate. The report I have mentioned is the second and equally important segment of considered recommendations for changes in the manner in which this House conducts its business. It has never been debated and we are now in the situation where the rules of this House are imposed from outside the chamber, and already predetermined without any debate or freedom of action on behalf of the members of this House. 
I remember a night in this chamber when a proposition to bring in what now exists- a fixed adjournment time for this House- was divided on a tied vote even though the Government of the day had a fairly extensive majority. That night, at least four Ministers voted against the then Prime Minister who said a few words afterwards. It was not the present Prime Minister, although the right honourable gentleman involved is still a member of this House, as are most of those who voted against him. We have had very extensive debates on Standing Orders. We used to change the Standing Orders on the basis of a free vote of the House. This Government is the first Government since I have been a member of this House and, I think, the first Government in the history of this Parliament, which has sought to impose Standing Orders on this House which have been predetermined, without taking into account the rights of individual members of the House to consider and make private decisions on those Standing Orders. 
It is no good Government supporters complaining that the procedures being used are not those which would best equip members of the chamber to carry out the functions for which they are elected. The Government, by allowing and even utilising methods such as back bench committees, which I know exist on the Government side, to determine changes which will take place, has predetermined for the future that governments will determine, collectively, the changes which will be made to procedures. The Government has predetermined that members of parliament will abrogate both their responsibilities and their rights as members to determine how the House will function. There is no point in  Mr Speaker's  talking about the independence of the  Speaker  if the chamber itself abrogates its right of independent action in fixing the procedures under which it will conduct its business. The procedures are not government responsibility. They should not be a party collective responsibility. They should be debated by members of parliament individually. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has provided me with a written answer to a question which I asked on Thursday of last week relating to the defence vote as stated in the Budget Speech. The answer shows that the figure given by the Treasurer was a padded figure, and not an accurate reflection of the actual vote. I ask for leave to have the answer of the Treasurer incorporated in  Hansard.  At some time he may tell us how he works out the figure. 
I do not know whether the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  has any idea what he has just said in this House. The wage level which this Government believes some adult Australians should live on is $36 a week. It is an amount less than the tax concessions the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will get from this Budget. Last Saturday night, and again at Sunday lunch time, there was a segment on  Four Corners  which I think highlights the speech we have just heard. The segment was concerned with Brazil. Brazil is described as the modern miracle. It has plenty of these $ 100m or $ 1,000m smelters. 
We never said that people had to starve so that other people could be rich and that is what you are saying. Brazil has much industrial capacity. A few Brazilians are making millions of dollars out of their new found riches. However, children are begging and stealing in the streets and wives are starving themselves to death because wage levels are so attractive to the foreign investors that you love so much. The people in that country cannot alford to eat. You have preached in this House, as has the Prime Minister, who recognises the Greek Athenian theory of citizenship in countries, namely, that there are those who are citizens who have all rights to share in the wealth, but that those who work are not citizens. 
Recently in Queensland the fact was exposed that people were being dismissed from their jobs because they would not work for below award wages. They are people for whom the Government has legislative responsiblity but has abdicated this responsibility. It is easy for a Government to make Australia attractive to overseas investors. It is easy to sit here and glibly talk figures. Those pensioners to whom the Government has just returned their twice yearly cost of living increases - 
I am sure they appreciate it. They did not appreciate the fact that the Government asked them to contribute $30m in a hidden form of tax by foregoing their income rises last year. The poorest, most disadvantaged major group in the community were required to contribute to the Government Budget whilst - 
We did. 
-If you like to look at the record, the first - 
-Oh, look! Why don't you grow up? God knows what the people of Bendigo are when they elect you. The fact is - 
-Now, that is- 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
) Is it a fact that commemorative postage stamps have been issued in respect of the 50th anniversary of a number of service clubs operating in Australia. 
) Is it also a fact that commemorative stamps have been issued (a) twice concerning Rotary, firstly on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the international establishment and secondly on the 50th anniversary of Rotary 's establishment in Australia and (b) for the 50th anniversary of the establishment of Lions in Australia. 
Is he able to state whether it is the 50th anniversary of Apex in 1981 and whether Apex is an Australian founded service club which has achieved international status; if so, why has this Anniversary been excluded from the projected stamp issues for 1 98 1 . 
Will he have this matter reviewed. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 

-Earlier today the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  took a point of order and asserted that I was the Presiding Officer in this House at the time when a petition seeking the attendance of the  Clerk  and the presentation of documents at the Queanbeyan Court was agreed to by this chamber. The right honourable gentleman was incorrect. The Presiding Officer at that time was  Sir Billy  Snedden, the Presiding Officer who currently presides over this House. The record can be checked. The motion seeking agreement with the petition relating to the Sankey case was dealt with by this House on 4 June 1976. If I was then the Presiding Officer somebody owes me some salary. The motion appears on page 247 of the Votes and Proceedings of this House. I do not suggest that the misrepresentation was deliberate but I believe that when an assertion is made under such circumstances much more care with facts should be undertaken, especially by senior and distinguished members of this chamber. 
-Has the Minister for National Development advised the governments of Queensland and Victoria that the areas of Gold Coast and Geelong have been removed from the list of areas eligible to apply for funding under the decentralisation assistance programs? Has either government responded or made any protest in respect of that advice? Is the Minister aware that outside the capital cities these urban areas constitute the areas of greatest unemployment in Australia? Does the Government policy indicate that Gold Coast and Geelong are noman'sland and are no longer entitled to any forms of government assistance? Have the State governments concurred in the Minister's decision? 
I raise a matter which arises from an answer given by the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  to a question I asked yesterday. Apparently some secret negotiations have taken place between the Victorian Government and the Commonwealth Government relating to those areas which will be eligible to apply for funds under the Government's regional assistance or decentralisation funding program. At this stage I am not able to indicate the exact details of the notification which has gone to the Victorian Government, but it appears that the urban area of the City of Geelong and some undefined areas of the Gold Coast have been deleted from those areas which are eligible to apply for funding under the program. I stress the words 'eligible to apply'. Whether they obtain funds or not is a matter for judgment by those who are making the decision on where the funds will be allocated. 
Last year, the Geelong area received Sim under this program for the development of industrial areas through the Geelong Regional Planning Authority. I think that the Minister might have a look at the answer he gave to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  sometime ago. The answer is quite inaccurate as to whom he made Sim available. I hope he does not make large amounts of money available on shoddy receipts. In fact the money went to the Geelong Regional Commission, not the Geelong City Council, as stated in the Minister's correspondence. 
It would appear that, acting on advice of an advisory committee, the Government has, excluded both the Geelong area and the Gold Coast area because of their proximity to metropolitan areas for which they apparently gain some benefit. I would dispute that proposition. In fact I think they have a disadvantage rather than an advantage in this particular area. They are neither metropolitan nor country. They have large populations. At the moment, at least in Geelong, a very substantial part of their populations are unemployed and others are making the 90-mile round trip to Melbourne daily in order to maintain employment. With the petrol taxes which the Government has imposed that is a very costly exercise. 
I wish to mention another matter. In late 1968 and in 1969 in this Parliament I argued very strongly with the then Government about the division of the urban area of Geelong. It is made up of a number of municipalities. At that time, under an instruction from the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  the cities of Geelong, Geelong West and Newtown were debarred from applying for assistance for employment under schemes which existed at that time, although other parts of the urban area of Geelong, because they were deemed to be shires which contained a greater proportion of the urban population than the cities concerned, were in fact eligible. This son of contradiction is arising again, and I think it is because the Government takes advice and decides on some viewpoint without actually looking at the facts or understanding what it is about. I asked the Minister a question yesterday and he said that he was glad that I acknowledged the greatness of the scheme. The reason that Geelong got money last year was that it carried an interest tag of about 10 per cent or 1 1 per cent. There are not many provincial or regional centres in country areas of Australia which can make repayments of $ 100,000 on that son of investment after one year. It is just not practical. It just happens that Geelong could do it and therefore the money was made available to it. Otherwise, the Government would not have been able to distribute the funds that it had available because it was placing too high a repayment tag on them. In fact, it was involving itself in usury. 
I rose tonight to protest not about whether funds are made available but about the denial of the right to make application. I do not dispute the Government's right to choose which applications it will grant, but to deny the right of application, especially in areas where the funds may not otherwise be taken up, is a stupid decision. It is a decision which is based on prejudice and a complete lack of any understanding of the real position of these areas. They are not metropolitan areas and they gain little or nothing from their proximity to the metropolitan areas. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) On what date was the study (referred to in his statement to Parliament on 24 October 1978) of a follow-on Destroyer program (a) commenced and (b) completed. 
) Who was in charge of the study. 
) What sections of (a) his Depanment, ( b) the Defence Forces and (c) other Departments were represented. 
When were the firm decisions for this project to proceed (referred to in his statement of March 1979) adopted by the Government. 
When will details of this program be made available to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Are members of the Defence Forces who participate in exercises of a non-defence nature, with official approval and/or funding, covered against death or injury; if so under what Commonwealth legislation. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 August 1 979: 
1 ) Were Defence fuel stocks released for private use in Queensland during the period 2 1 May to 2 1 August 1 979. 
Did he approve such a release; if so, under what conditions. 
Do procedures exist whereby Defence fuel reserves can be diverted to civilian use; if so, what are the guidelines. 
If supplies were released, who made the request for the release. 
Are oil companies under contract to supply fuel for Defence requirements in Queensland, able to divert this fuel to private sources. 
How did recent claims that the Defence Forces had commandeered fuel needed for private users arise and was any supply contractor responsible for these claims. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Commonwealth drivers operating in Melbourne on 26 July 1 979 were notified by radio that traffic conditions in the Dynan Road and New Footscray Road areas were extreme at approximately 2. 1 5 p.m. 
) Were claims for reimbursement of toll charges lodged by drivers who used the West Gate Bridge at this time met; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Will he re-examine the procedures relating to the liability of Commonwealth drivers to meet toll costs for the use of the West Gate Bridge. 
Is it a fact that in a majority of cases time saving, or reduced distance travelled, are not acceptable as reasons for using the Bridge and as a consequence drivers are personally out of pocket. 
Is it also a fact that under existing arrangements a driver must exercise his judgment about use of the Bridge, pay the toll and then submit a claim for reimbursement. 
What is the cost to his Department of (a) the time taken to complete claims by drivers and (b) the processing of such claims where a refund of 60c toll charge is made to the driver concerned. 
Will he seek to have established definite procedures which will eliminate the present uncertain and costly practices. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) How many claims for reimbursement of West Gate Bridge toll charges have been made by Commonwealth drivers since the present departmental procedures were established. 
How many claims have been rejected and for what reasons. 
What administrative arrangements and procedures have been established to process claims for reimbursement. 
Do drivers have any avenue of appeal against rejection of claims. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 August 1 979: 
Were Defence fuel oil stocks reduced during 1978-79 as set out in the Departmental estimates for that year. 
What was the amount by which stocks were reduced. 
What was the value of this reduction in expenditure savings in 1978-79. 
Will the level of these stocks be increased in 1979-80; if so, by what quantity and at what cost. 
What was his Department's purchase cost of fuel per ton at the time of presentation of the 1978-79 Budget and what was the comparable cost as at 22 August 1979. 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  speaking to the motion, the abuse of the Standing Orders of this House by Ministers is a disgrace. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent - 
-Mr Acting  Speaker,  may I rise to take a point of order? The House is very concerned that the Prime Minister, who has no respect for his own office, is going to repeat his performance of the other day of attacking a man while he was attending his mother's funeral. 
Opposition members- Shame! 
That the question be now put. 
-by leave-It is becoming a practice which is of concern to members of this Parliament that papers presented to the Parliament are not being supplied in numbers sufficient to meet the requirements of departments. Quite often it is expected by the Department concerned that the Parliament will produce in the Parliamentary Papers Series those documents which departments have an obligation to provide to Parliament in numbers sufficient to meet the needs of members of parliament and those people who seek information through their member of parliament. Some of the reports are very voluminous, and it should not be the responsibility of the Parliament to have them published. Such reports are supplied to the Parliament in numbers sufficient only to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. I do not think that that is an economic practice, nor should it be the responsibility of the Parliament to print and to disseminate such reports. Even though a limited number of people in the community may want to study the full report I think that copies of the report should be available. 
I think that at a future meeting of the Publications Committee it may look at the growing practice of the requirements which are laid down by the Parliament for the supply of a sufficient number of documents prior to the tabling of such documents in the House not being met. It is inconvenient for documents to be tabled in the Parliament purely so that the Government can get the publicity which it wants or the people responsible can get the publicity which they want from such a document without the full document being made available to members of this House or to the public for study and comment. It is a regular practice for parliamentary papers to come out several months, if not years, after their presentation to the Parliament. Yet documents are purported to be available to the Parliament and members of parliament when in fact they are not available. 
I raise two matters, one of which briefly I raised last night. This morning after the presentation of a report of the Publications Committee I indicated my concern at the fact that Government departments were not in fact complying with the requirements of this Parliament in the presentation of sufficient copies of tabled documents for members' use. Today a document was tabled in both Houses. In this House it was tabled on behalf of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  but copies are not available to members. The Department quite obviously is seeking to transfer the cost to the Parliament. It is in fact having its report tabled but denying members of the Parliament access to it. 
The matter of substance that I want to raise is the question of the removal of the Geelong area, which is substantially in my electorate and partially in the electorate of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  from the areas eligible to apply for decentralisation funds. In answer to a question the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  indicated that it was a recommendation of an advisory committee on regional development and funding. My understanding is that that recommendation was in fact a unanimous recommendation of the committee. 
The matter I want to raise is that today the Premier of Victoria indicated that he would object to the decision of the Minister. I think it ought to be put on the record that the Victorian Government is in fact represented directly on the committee concerned. Apparently the representative of that Government supported the recommendation which was made. It is a hollow gesture after the matter is made public for the Premier suddenly to find it objectionable. I also point out to the House that the Victorian Government was notified some time ago. Information about this whole deal seems to be very difficult to obtain. The Victorian Government's response to this information was to note the letter. The Premier of Victoria would have been the recipient of correspondence dealing with Commonwealth-State financial matters. He now finds the decision objectionable because it is exposed to the public gaze and because it may be politically embarrassing to the Victorian Government. 
It is too late after the decision has been made with the support of the Victorian Government for that Government to say that it finds the decision objectionable now that it has become public. I find the decision objectionable because it denies the right to make application. It is based on assumptions which show either incompetence or a complete lack of understanding of the realities of the situation in areas which have been debarred by members of the committee. That is a very serious charge on a matter of serious concern. To suggest that areas which are near metropolitan areas benefit from the proximity automatically is naive in the extreme. 
There are very great disadvantages in many cases for areas in proximity to metropolitan centres. Such areas do not derive the same benefits as the metropolitan areas. For instance, telephone charges in a metropolitan area are much cheaper. Also it is much simpler and cheaper for businesses to operate in the metropolitan area than outside it. So proximity is not an advantage. The old theory, which I thought had been forgotten years ago, of self-generation at certain sizes does not work. I ask the Minister to reconsider the decision. Whether grants are made is a matter for Government decision on the applications received but denial of the right to apply on what I consider to be a totally false premise, with the contrivance of the Victorian Government despite its belated protests, is something that ought to be reconsidered. The Minister ought to ask his committee to look at the matter if necessary. If it is not, he should change direction and allow applications to be received. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence be requested to conduct an urgent inquiry into- 
the advisability of hiring a Hong Kong based, wholly-foreign-owned company to carry out surveillance functions involving protection and security of remote areas of Australian sovereign territory and coastline; 
the reasons why Australian companies, competent to perform this nationally important function, were rejected; and 
the dangers that could arise through the lack of legal accountability to the Australian Government of such foreign-owned companies carrying out this function. 
-I think the method of this matter being brought before the Parliament and the presumption that clearly it is the Opposition's position in Parliament to accept such bones as are offered by the Government, is unacceptable to members of the Opposition and should be unacceptable to the Parliament. Proposals have been before this House for over three years for changes in the method of operation of this Parliament. These were prepared as a result of a very extensive examination by an all-party committee from both Houses of the Parliament. In fact, there is an undertaking from the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair),  which is in excess of three years old, that opportunity would be given for debate of that report in this House. A number of those proposals would facilitate the business of the House to a far greater extent than is possible at the moment. They would also enable greater and more detailed consideration of matters which come before the House and which do not come before the House because of the limitations which we experience at the moment through business, the work load and other commitments. 
Firstly, the Opposition is concerned that reform cannot come by being imposed by one part of the total House. Secondly, there is, at least in the remarks by the Leader of the House, a suggestion that the major purpose of these committees is to shorten the time for debate in the House so that less time would be required to be devoted to what is, in fact, the major substance of this session of the Parliament. Three hours to consider in the House the reports from the Estimates committees sounds a lot until one considers that there are 27 departments of State represented by Ministers whose estimates will come before the committees. Honourable members may wish to make some contribution in this House to matters which arise from deliberations of the committee. The time available in the House for members to speak is 1 80 minutes. The time that is available to the Opposition is half the total time, that is 90 minutes. But there is provision in the proposed Standing Orders for the Government to take an additional proportion, that is over half the time available, because Ministers have unlimited opportunities to speak and they can speak on unlimited occasions. 
Now, in the three-hour report stage from one committee there will be either 13 or 14 ministerial departments involved. That gives each of those Ministers- 13 in one instance and 14 in the other if they are divided roughly in halfunlimited opportunities to speak. I am not sugesting that that will happen, but if one Minister gets up and speaks for 20 minutes the Opposition has lost 10 minutes of a very restricted speaking time. If a debate does develop during the report stage because of a controversy about the estimates of a minister's department, we can expect that a considerable proportion of the three-hour period will be taken up by the minister responding to those matters in the House. Every time a Minister stands up, the time that he speaks in excess of the time allowed for an ordinary member, will come out of the time available to the Opposition. 
The Senate has adopted a committee system. It appears to me not to be valid to suggest that the House of Representatives is incapable of manning more than two committees but the Senate is. It would seem that the resources of this Parliament are inordinately distributed in favour of the Senate if that is, in fact, the case. The Senate does not meet during periods when Estimates committees are meeting, but, in fact, adjourns. More than two committees could meet during a period when Estimate committees are in operation. Because of the limited numbers who are required to man one of these committees it should be possible for them to meet on days when the House does not normally sit. So it is quite feasible- it should be acceptable to the majority of honourable members in the House who should be making the decision- that the number of committees be increased beyond two and sittings could take place at times when the House does not sit. The time savings involved for the Government by such a procedure are considerable. I think the problems that this House has had with what is a very desirable measure result from reform which is forced on the House because of the lack of adequate machinery for it to take place as a parliamentary function as opposed to a party function. 
One of the substantive recommendations of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System and one of the obvious needs- I am not sure whether it is still on the Notice Paper but it has been at various times in the last three years- is for this House to adopt a procedures committee which can carry out an on-going job of examining the manner in which this House conducts its business. It can make recommendations to this House for change. The Standing Orders Committee, for all its prestige, is not a vehicle which can carry out on-going examinations of the procedures of the House and certainly it is hardly a body which could be expected to be the initiator of reform. An examination of the personnel and structure of that Committee will indicate the difficulties which exist in having it meet on any regular basis and certainly one can see the difficulties which exist in examining proposals which would be considered to be of a reformist nature. By its very nature it is a status quo committee. I believe that the role of the Standing Orders Committee is to examine the Standing Orders of the Parliament to see whether they are defective, to recommend changes, to consider their implementation and to recommend to the Parliament on those changes. 
They will do precious little over the next 30 years because the body itself is structured in a manner which makes it impossible to work. The interjection by the honourable member for Perth indicates that he has not listened to what I just said. I am suggesting that the Parliament needs a body that can carry out that function. It needs a procedures committee manned from both sides of the Parliament and by people who are able to contribute on a regular basis to an examination of the Parliament. How often can the Prime Minister or the Leader of the House or other members put half a day into attending a Standing Orders Committee meeting? It is not a practical proposition. They are not elected by the Parliament. They are members of this Committee by virtue of the structure of the Committee as set out in the Standing Orders. 
Examination of this question would have been facilitated a great deal had the Government or the Government parties, at the time when the proposal was first mooted, referred the question to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration and report to the House. That was not done. Three weeks ago we were informed that the proposal had been dropped. We now have a situation in which we are told that there is not adequate time for proper consideration. That is because of the way in which the matter was introduced into the Parliament and the way in which it has been handled. There has been a failure by the Parliament- I say the Parliament collectively- to deal with the proposals that the Parliament ordered to be brought forward and which have been reported to the Parliament. These could have provided the House with vehicles to examine our own procedures adequately. 
-I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the motion to refer the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill to a legislation committee being determined on a majority vote. 
I will not take up the time of the House by debating this motion, but I would point out that significant inroads into the liberties of Australian citizens are involved in this legislation. It is an appropriate piece of legislation to be considered in the manner in which a legislation committee could consider it. The consideration that will be given to it in the House will be of a confrontation type between members debating for political points when in fact we have before the House legislation which in many cases involves the denial of civil liberties and the destruction of persons * careers and their whole life styles on hearsay evidence without the requirement to give any proof whatsoever of the accuracy of charges. In this legislation there is no protection against the irresponsible or improper use of security facilities. It would be far better for all concerned if the clauses of the legislation- the policy has already been determined- were considered in the atmosphere of a legislation committee where the actual wording and import of the clauses could be discussed adequately as opposed to the political input or political advantages that some people may see in pursuing this type of approach. 
The Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is trying to interject. He would not understand what I am talking about, despite his oath as a lawyer. He has no respect for the civil rights of persons and no respect for the legal rights of citizens in a democratic society. This Government is adopting legislation which is the same as that which covers the KGB and the way in which it has operated in the past. 
-I may be talking about another motion but what I am saying is that this Government is denying us the opportunity of having a bipartisan examination in an area where confrontation does not exist at present. 
We cannot have bipartisan debate in this House and we all know it. The facts of the situation are that the Government has decided that no consideration of the rights of the individual in this society will be given and that no alterations will be granted. It is not prepared to expose legislation which, to say the least, is unsatisfactory, to scrutiny in a legislation committee which was set up for the very purpose of examining legislation where its details are in dispute. There are numbers of members on the Government side of the House who are dissatisfied with this legislation. They would appreciate the opportunity of considering the actual clauses of the Bill in circumstances where they are not placed in the position of having to dispute with their Government the clauses that they feel should be altered in the interests of civil rights and the rights of the Australian community. 
The rights of people should stand above petty party politics, but in this House it is quite obvious tonight that honourable members opposite are not prepared to give even basic consideration to those rights. I appeal to those members in this House to see the security operations of this country as being an important and a serious function of government which should be above party politics and which should be seen to operate as necessary within the national interest. The only way in which that can occur is for the Bill, which establishes the limits within which the security organisations in this country operate, to be drafted to ensure that it meets the objections of those people who believe that security can be misused and to ensure that the clauses do what I think the Government would suggest they should do. 
There are too many cases of abuses of security on the record. We proposed that a judicial audit of the Organisation be carried out. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  has said that this would be a proper function. Surely Government members do not dispute that a judge would be an appropriate person to carry out that audit. I certainly do not think that a politician would dispute that. But apparently we are not even going to have the opportunity for proper consideration under circumstances which would prevail in a legislation committee. The Government's decision to refuse to refer the matter to a legislation committee is a decision to politicise the debate on this Bill to the exclusion of the benefit of the security organisation, the people of Australia and this Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 March 1979: 
1 ) Are CB transmitters which have illegal capacities and channels subject to seizure or forfeiture. 
If so, are these sets subsequently auctioned to the public on behalf of the Government. 
Is it proper for his Department to retail illegal transmitters to the public. 
-I seek leave to move General Business Notice No. 1 standing in my name, namely: 
That the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence be requested to conduct an urgent inquiry into- 
1 ) the advisability of hiring a Hong Kong based, wholly foreign-owned company to carry out surveillance functions involving the protection and security of remote areas of Australian sovereign territory and coastline; 
the reasons why Australian companies competent to perform this nationally important function were rejected, and 
3 ) the dangers that could arise through the lack of legal accountability to the Australian Government of such foreign-owned companies carrying out this function. 
I do not think that the justification for the Opposition's case could be more eloquently put than it was put by the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  The people he mentioned were the people who kept the security files in the United States, the people who would have made the judgments on the ultimate likelihood of a security file being required. Burgess and McLean were part of a security organisation. This clause places responsibility for making subjective judgment in the hands of people at that level. 
The danger of a clause such as this is that a subjective judgment is to be made by a person who may or may not be competent to make that judgment- that also is a subjective judgment- on the future of a person who may be 16, 17 or 18 years of age. That judgment will affect that person's prospects of advancement through this society. It is a judgment that can ultimately lead to their being denied positions for which they are qualified and to which they are entitled on the basis that a security file on them exists. I think that the Committee should remember that the commencement of a security file on any person is a significant disadvantage to that person, irrespective of whether any subversive or other activity ever takes place. The persons that the honourable member for North Sydney mentioned are not the type of people who one would be talking about as ultimately taking part in a subversive activity. They were know to have taken part and were taking part in a subversive activity. 
-I think we have to protect the country and I think we have to protect the country against people who believe that an individual 's rights should be subject to the political nees or thoughts of a person such as the Minister. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member for Corio had better watch out that he does not impute improper motives against honourable members during this debate. 
-I thought that interjections were also out of order,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I suggest that you should take the Minister to task. It seems to be a practice of the Chair now to call the  speaker  to order and not the person who interjects. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member will withdraw that remark. 
-I withdraw the remark. I will make an official complaint. It is happening all the time. The facts are that the Government wants to be in a position in which it can disadvantage for life anyone whom it feels or one of its officers feels may become a political activist or just an activist. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles) 
Order! The honourable member for Dundas has made his speech. 
-The clause we are talking about - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! If the honourable member for Corio wishes to get protection from the Chair while he is talking he should not try to shout down the occupant of the Chair when that person is talking. 
-I just said that the words of the clause we are discussing- I cannot think of anything more relevant- say that if an activity or involvement of a person may ultimately be a security risk a security file can be opened on that person. 
Let us look at the facts about the success of these security organisations. How many political bombings have taken place in Australia in the last 1 0 years? About how many of them have we been forewarned by the Australian security organisations? How many people have been disadvantaged in Australia- denied Australian citizenship, denied positions in the Public Service and denied normal civilian rights in Australiabecause of the existence of a security file? 
I can name two members of the Victorian Parliament if the honourable member wants me to do so. 
-Sgro and Sidiropoulos, who are both currently members of the Victorian Parliament and who were both denied citizenship of this country by a Liberal government because of security reports. I can name a business house in South Australia which was closed as a security risk because it was in the proximity of Salisbury. It was not closed because of any security risk but because the security officers could not get the favours that they demanded from the proprietor. That is the sort of power that will be given by this Bill. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member for Corio is the only  speaker  so far who has not attempted to explain to the Chair or the Committee why the word 'ultimately' should or should not remain in this Bill. 1 now invite him to do so. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, the word 'ultimately' gives almost unlimited power as to whether to start a security file on a person without any specific reason or need for any specific reason where security is involved or seen to be involved. The word 'ultimately' means that if, in the subjective judgment of an individual public servant who happens to be in security, that person ultimately sees a threat- it may be to his own position- in the activities or any activity which is taking place, a security file may be started. It may be started on a young person who is attending a meeting about which he knows nothing and which he is attending to find out what it is all about. Some people have an inquisitive nature. That person can find himself with a security file for life. He has no opportunity to examine that file or to have the file examined. He has no access to it and no chance to disprove what is contained in it. 
The danger which we see and which I think any thinking person would see in that sort of practice is that a person's whole life is disadvantaged because there is no need to justify the opening of a file. That situation may be acceptable in totalitarian countries but it is certainly not acceptable in a democracy. Surely persons have the right to expect there to be some substantial reason for their entire careers being disadvantaged. Anyone who suggests that the opening of a security file on a person does not disadvantage that person, does not know how our system works. 
If the security systems around the world had a good record- a record of documents not being leaked and of documents not being found in places where they could disadvantage people who were not friends of certain people- then it might be an acceptable practice. However, it is not an acceptable practice judging by the track record of the organisations concerned. Certainly it is not an acceptable practice when there is no means by which the judgment to open that file on an ultimate but not actual fact can be tested by any person. Nor can the information which is contained in that file be examined. If I were to stand in this House and say that the honourable member for Ombligalablo- I do not think there is such an electorate- was seen robbing a bank, someone could challenge that statement. If that information is submitted in a secret way to a security organisation and if the note which is submitted goes in the person's file, whilst the information may be evaluated as being of no consequence, the collection of such items can be of substantial significance. 
What I am protesting about is that a person can have a file into which that information can be placed without there being any justification for the existence of that file. I do not know why the Government finds it necessary to maintain the word 'ultimately' in the clause. It is not unreasonable to require some justification for the opening of a file before a person's future is threatened. It is not unreasonable for a person whose entire future could be involved to have some protection. I would have thought that in a democratic society the Parliament was responsible for and required to provide that protection. It appears that this House is involved in a practice of denying protection to citizens and acquiring for instrumentalities of the Government of the day means by which the rights of individuals can be denied rather than protected. 
-Someone famous once said that he was taking a small step. I think that a more liberal attitude- I use the expression hesitantly- towards the manner in which the legislation and Estimates committees are used can help this House to perform the functions its members are elected to perform. Those functions are twofold. One is to provide a representative forum in which to examine and, in the case of honourable members opposite, to support the actions of the government of the day and the other is to provide a representative forum of the people of Australia in order to ensure that the government of the day is under constant scrutiny by the only body which has a realistic chance of performing that role. Because of an accident of numbers some years ago which denied the then government a majority membership of the Senate and, I think it is fair to say, because of the reformist zeal of  Mr Justice  Murphy when Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and of other members of the Senate, the Senate's procedures have changed dramatically over the last 10 years. It undertook roles which were the responsibility of this House. 
In fact one of those roles was the establishment of Estimates committees which deal in detail with the actual line and form of the Estimates. One of the results of that situation is that now we have available a detailed and prepared set of estimates of Departments in much finer detail than ever existed before. I am not sure whether the Departments like that, but certainly it means that a closer examination is possible merely because that information is available. 
This particular reform will work if the committees function as we see they should. At this stage I think we all have varying views on how they should in fact operate. We are now confronted with the problem of determining the actual method of operation in the very short time that is left before the committees operate. Certainly, I would have liked to have seen this motion accompanied by a motion which would have required a re-examination of the operations of committees after this session of Parliament is over. Then no one could say: 'Well, we will have a look at the situation sometime'. I would have liked this to be a terminal resolution that had to be re-adopted as a fresh set of sessional orders prior to the next Budget session. I again make reference to the fact that the reform of Parliament should be a continuing process. I believe that reform is not within the ambit of the Standing Orders Committee whose report ultimately brings the reform to the Parliament, but as an incidental occurrence rather than as an initiative. 
We still have before us the report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System which examined this matter in extreme detail and which carried out its work during the period of two governments. The report was ultimately presented to the Parliament when the Committee was under the chairmanship of the  President  of the Senate,  Sir Magnus  Cormack. That report made numerous suggestions, some of which are probably dated already by changes in procedures. But one of the more significant recommendations was the suggested creation in this House of a procedures committee. There has been on the Notice Paper since March of this year a Notice of Motion in my name for the establishment of that committee, although I do not claim credit for originating that idea. I believe that if back bench members of the Government who have shown an interest in the reform of Parliament take up the cause of that committee and allow that motion to be debated by the House, we will take major steps forward in the manner in which this House operates. As members of the Parliament we can consider what is the best and most effective structure of the Parliament, and the means by which members of Parliament can best carry out the functions for which they are elected. I have always felt that the best results in the examination of our procedures come from honourable members collectively putting their own points of view. Governments of whatever colour have a vested interest in the procedures of this Parliament which is different from that of the honourable members. 
Obviously the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  has a very definite responsibility. He has to keep to the Government's legislation program. The members of the House have a different responsibility. Their responsibility is to scrutinise the legislation of the Government to the extent that it is possible and within their power to bring about changes, without unduly taxing the time of the House and without in fact making it impossible for the actual performance of honourable members' duties other than those that they have in this Parliament. This reform is long overdue. Whether it will work will very much depend on how successfully the forms and the procedures of these committees can be established without prior experience, and without real prior consideration by the Parliament or its members. I believe that future reforms depend on goodwill and on a continual examination of our procedures with continual recommendations on change. I believe that situation depends on the ultimate establishment of a procedures committee and I ask the House to move to that matter quickly. 
-I want to make it clear right from the outset that, as far as I am concerned, any person who wilfully sought to interfere with the activities of the Defence Force in a manner which would in any way inhibit its ability to defend this country or endanger - 
-I said: 'In any way inhibit its ability to defend this country'. I know that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs is a player on words but I want to give him a bit of a serve on his incompetence in law, so he should stop interjecting. Anyone who in any way inhibits- that means in any way interferes withthe ability of the Defence Force - 
-I am glad that the Minister understands the English language. Anyone who in any way inhibits the ability of the Defence Force in its carrying out of its functions in respect of the security of Australia or Australia's defence is a person who should and would be dealt with. That, I hope, is not in question. The example given by the Minister is possibly the most incompetent example I have ever heard given in a parliament. Any person who planned- the Minister said that the security forces would not be able to conduct surveillance on a person while he was planning- an action such as he described would be acting in breach of Commonwealth law. The Commonwealth Crimes Act, which I am sure he understands, was significantly amended as far back as 1 96 1 to make it an illegal act to approach a defence establishment. There is an Act which covers Garden Island, called the Control of Naval Waters Act, which some members of the Parliament might have heard about, and which would make it illegal for an unauthorised person to enter that area. The preparation and planting of any device for the purpose of sabotage would contravene the Crimes Act, certainly the defence Acts, and the Control of Naval Waters Act. 
To say that such a person was not guilty of subversion because the clause requires an illegal act to have been committed is to say something which can only be classified as incompetent and misleading. Such a person would have carried out any number of illegal acts which would qualify for surveillance under this clause long before he even got a bomb together. I think it is worth saying to the Committee that the record of our intelligence organisations in relation to bombings is not very good. So far they have not been able to advise a government of the likelihood of a politically motivated bombing and so far there is no history of anyone who carried out such an act being discovered. I think we ought to be trying in this case to ensure that this legislation will in fact carry out the functions of enhancing security and of ensuring that the security organisations in Australia are able to carry out their functions and that the people of Australia will have confidence that they are carrying out those functions in a manner which the people of a democratic society are entitled to expect. 
I repeat what I said earlier in the day: The establishment of a security file on a person places a very serious limitation on that person's civil rights in this country. It denies that person access to any number of areas of activity. The ability to establish a security file on a matter which is deemed to be subversive but which is not illegal would seem to be an extension of the inroads into the legal rights of citizens which should not be tolerated in a democratic society. I know that the Minister just does not understand the difficulties of people who are caught up in this type of situation. He does not understand people at all, judging by what he says in this House. He certainly has no respect for the law as a protector of the rights of a citizen but he looks on it as a vehicle to inhibit the rights of a citizen. There are adequate provisions for security forces to institute surveillance in any situation in which a person is a security risk or takes part in activities which would bring him under notice as a possible security risk. This clause as drafted is little more than a pretext. No protection is provided anywhere in the legislation for a person who is improperly placed under surveillance and against whom a file is improperly established. There is no means of audit, no means of notification and no means by which even the Minister can be informed of the establishment of such files. 

 -Mr Chairman, we should keep in mind the very wide net of laws which protect our security organisations, our defence forces and those other activities which have to do with the security and defence of Australia. There is a myriad of Acts, not the least of which is the Commonwealth Crimes Act, which contains clauses of this type and which would deem a very minor breach of the types described here to be an illegal action. Given that no protection exists in the legislation for a person, given that a person has no defence, I think it is not unreasonable for this clause to contain a provision that before an activity is deemed to be an act of subversion, before the step of restricting his future civil liberties in this country is taken- it is a severe restriction to establish a file on a person- that person should at least have been charged with or deemed to have undertaken an illegal act. 
-I raise one or two matters in the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill which are still outstanding. We have concentrated on the amendment to clause 5. The Government has indicated that in its opinion an act does not have to be unlawful to be subversive. In this clause there is also the definition of acts- this ties in with unlawful actwhich fall within the ambit of this clause and which has nothing to do with the security or defence of Australia. I think it should be made clear in this Committee stage that this clause can be used by the Government for civilian purposes which have no significant security or defence capacity. I refer to the oft repeated threats of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to use the Defence Force. If they come to fruition the Defence Force will be involved in civilian activities in this community. He has made that threat at least four times this year. It is a threat which I suggest to the House is a danger to the standing of the Defence Force and can bring it into disrepute. It is a matter which I am sure the Prime 
Minister would not be concerned about unless he scored a political point. 
-To be quite honest I do not think he cares about anything except political points. 
-I am quite aware that Chifley used that tactic. I am quite aware that at the dme it was a matter of controversy and I am also aware that it was a matter of immediate and absolute national significance. I do not think that in any of the cases in which the Prime Minister has threatened this action the same situation existed. I make the point that in recent weeks there has been all the evidence of a build-up of a campaign to create a confrontation situation relating to the mining and export of uranium. Should such a situation occur where those people who have genuine objections to the mining and export of uranium seek to take action to demonstrate that proposition- and the Prime Minister uses his national security powers, as I am sure he would if he thought it was politically advantageous to bring the Army in on a pretext of national security- and picket, demonstrate or in any other way protest against the loading, shipping or movement of that uranium, they will find themselves in breach of the terms of this clause and be deemed to be carrying out acts of subversion. 
I will use an example of a previous time under a similar clause. Those persons who objected in 1939 to the shipment of pig iron to Japan to make armaments for later use against Australia were most likely better patriots than the persons who tried to prevent that Act. Those persons would have been guilty of subversion had the Defence Force been brought in either to move that pig iron over the wharves or to protect the movement of that pig iron over the wharves and other activities which were being picketed. I remind the House that there is no provision in this Bill for any audit of the actions of the security organisations. There is no provision for any examination of the files that are created or of their contents and no provision for any person to challenge the existence of a file in his name or to try to establish that the charge of subversion which is inherent in the establishment of a file under this clause is a charge which is unwarranted. A person acting in good conscience on a matter which has a content of conscience can, because he disagrees with the government of the day which has chosen to use its powers in a way which may be inadvisable but is legal, finds himself declared as a subversive. 
An extensive inquiry has just been carried out by a committee of this Parliament into the denial of" civil liberties to persons in the Soviet Union. The clause before the Committee is not greatly different from the law in the Soviet Union which permits breaches of civil liberties to occur. We, as a Parliament, feel justified in inquiring into them and complaining about them in this country and throughout the world. The framework is very much the same. The way is open, in the light of the legal incompetence which has been demonstrated in this chamber tonight, to extending that framework by administrative action and regulation. 
Very wide ranging powers exist in Acts which have been passed by this Parliament over a number of years. I point out to those honourable members who do not remember the amendments to the Crimes Act of 196 1 that the sort of example which the Minister gave is beyond being ludicrous. It is an offence under the Commonwealth Crimes Act and other Acts of Parliament to approach a defence establishment. I do not make fun of the Minister's speech. I am alarmed that a person who in this House represents the Attorney-General should make such a speech showing his complete and utter disregard for the facts. 
-No one has ever been charged, but under this legislation persons can be deemed to be subversives without being charged, without the right of defence and without committing any illegal act. That is the consequence of this clause. A person can be said to be a subversive without having committed an illegal act. Commission of an illegal act in this field is extremely easy because of the wide ranging provisions of the Commonwealth Crimes Act and the State Crimes Acts. 
-I fancy that the O 'Learys do not like the English, but I do not think that has anything to do with subversion or with this legislation. The fact is that the Commonwealth Crimes Act and the State Crimes Acts are adequate to cover any subversive activity which is likely to occur in Australia. Any person who takes part in what in fact is subversion is entitled to be charged. No person ever has been charged. 
In fact, the only person in the history of this country seriously challenged with that sort of action was a member of this Parliament. He was expelled because he was an Irishman and was honest about it. That happened on 1 1 November 1920. Honourable members should remember the date. 
The wording of this clause is designed to restrict civil liberties. It provides no protection of civil liberties. The Minister's speech indicates quite clearly that the Government is prepared to go to any length at all in regard to this legislation. It is even prepared to mislead the Parliament and to give deliberately false examples. I cannot use any other term. The Minister must know better. He cannot be that incompetent; it is impossible. 
-I withdraw, but I would have thought that if the Minister believed what he said he would not be prepared to admit that he was that incompetent at law, especially in his role as representing the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth. 
-It was a dreadful example. 
-I have withdrawn the remark. I complete my remarks by saying that the clause is a danger to civil liberties. I hope that the Committee rejects it. 
I raise a matter which is of concern to me, which is of concern to a number of people in my electorate and which will be of concern to a number of Australians. In the Victorian Parliament today, the member for Geelong East raised a matter which reflects on the administration of Commonwealth funds by this Government. He raised the question of what is apparently a direction from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which restricts the amount of funds available to universities in Victoria for the expansion of off-campus studies. This is a significant and growing area of education and one which fulfills a very great need in our society. It is fairly well known, especially by people in Victoria, that patronage is practised in the distribution of Commonwealth funds to areas of Victoria. I think it is not unreasonable to suggest that the Prime Minister's electorate receives at least five times as much in State and Commonwealth grants of funds than any other non-metropolitan area in Victoria. What is alarming to me in this instance is that there is clear evidence that this Government has acted to divert funds from an education program which is one of the real successes of the innovations in recent years to the Prime Minister's electorate purely for domestic political purposes. 
People have a right to seek to improve themselves through tertiary education. Many of the people doing so are people whose basic skills at the completion of their formal education were such that their job opportunities were limited. They are seeking to improve their positions so that they can fulfil an ambition and improve their position in our society. Many of them are adults who have to gain this education off campus because, quite obviously, they cannot afford to undertake full time education as they have to earn their living. The experience of Deakin University is that the rate of passes among mature students studying off-campus courses and the levels at which mature students have been able to undertake part time courses with success are far in excess of the levels expected of students entering university on a full time basis. It is an area of education which is important and which should be maintained. It certainly should not be the subject of political interference on a basis which has nothing to do with the relevant merits of the allocation of funds. 
This follows a matter which I raised on two occasions last week when my electorate was removed from the list of areas entitled to apply for decentralisation funds from the Commonwealth. On a number of occasions during the week, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  has said that if Labor members in this place represented more electorates they could apply for a greater share of the funds. As a Labor member in this place representing an electorate which was eligible, I know that it is extremely difficult to comply with that requirement if the 
Minister uses his authority to remove an electorate from those areas that are eligible to apply, and I think it makes fairly false that sort of suggestion. The allocation of funds not only should be done on the basis of merit but also should be seen to be done on the basis of merit, and all the evidence that has accrued over the last three years is that they are being applied on the basis of political patronage, without relevance to merit. That is something which this Parliament should not allow. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Having heard what the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  said, 1 think it is only fair to say to this House that their pleas for the Liberal Party of Australia in Queensland, for instance, to give up its expectations of governing that State is a noble gesture made by honourable members who are not required to live in a State governed by the National Party. The facts of the situation are that, if the Liberal Party does not contest seats held by the National Party in Queensland it cannot change the relationship of the parties within the coalition Government of that State so that it is the partner with the majority. If that is the situation which honourable members opposite who have spoken in this adjournment debate are suggesting should apply, one wonders why the Liberal Party should bother even to run in an election in that State. I would have thought that a party which once had self-respect and had shown at least a recovery of some of that selfrespect in that State would object to being a party to some of the actions which currently are being taken in Queensland. It is not unreasonable to suggest in this Parliament that there is a strong case for holding an inquiry into whether people in that State have even basic civil rights. Some people have more rights than others. People who live in Queensland are Australians. The people I happen to be talking about are a responsibility of this Parliament. They are people who, on the basis of race, are denied the rights enjoyed by other people. 
The facts are that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie said in this House that the people of Queensland should not have the opportunity to elect a government other than one under the present Premier; that the Liberal Party should not accept a political responsibility to seek to become the majority party in a coalition government, in line with the support it has in that State; and that the Liberal Party should forgo the opportunity to provide the Premier of that State. 1 do not think that the Liberal Party would adequately govern that State either, but it would have to be preferable to what we have at present. If people in Queensland are denied the opportunity to support the Liberal Party, we will see political opportunists, for base political reasons, denying people their civil rights. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Millar)Order!  It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. 
The House stands adjourned until 2.15 p.m. on Tuesday next. 
-I rise to support the amendment. I think it is interesting that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  attacked the Australian Labor Party for not presenting alternative policies but was unable to find things in his own Government's policies to talk about during his speech. He spent the major part of his speech attacking the Labor Party. I suppose that is reasonable. If I had his record in the health field I would not want to talk about health either, especially my own record. It surprises me that a Minister of the Crown in charge of health would stand up in the House and say that the medical profession in Australia cannot be trusted; that the medical profession would rort a scheme which guaranteed Australian's health care when needed. I think Australians would also have been surprised to hear the Minister say that those persons who are disadvantaged are now in such a situation, because of his Government's three years in office, that he feels it is necessary to seek assistance for them in obtaining drugs that they need for their health. 
This Budget is one of a continuing series of budgets which has transferred, on a planned basis, resources from those people least able to afford it to other sectors of the community better able to afford it. It is a symptom of the Government's whole approach that it is agonising over whether a person who feels his ego requires a car worth more than $18,000 should have his purchase subsidised by the taxpayers of Australia. Currently, almost all of the luxury vehicles sold in Australia are sold on the basis of the Government subsidy in the forms of tax concessions and special leasing arrangements. In many cases profits have been made by this mode of operation. There is no such treatment for the persons on $200 a week or less who constitute something like 70 per cent of the Australian community. 
The Minister for Health talks about his achievements in health. I will tell him of some of these achievements. Pensioners are no longer guaranteed free treatment. In many instances pensioners have to pay doctors the amount in excess of the 85 per cent which is paid by the Government. People no longer have access to the drugs prescribed for them by doctors. The Government has said that only the cheapest version of any given drug will be available on the free list. The Government has withdrawn its support for the public hospital sector to the extent it is legally able and is engaged- in line with its policy of foreign investment- in encouraging the disposal of Australia's hospitals to overseas investors. 
It is not surprising that the cost of health care rose during the period 1972-75 when the Labor Government was in office. That government accepted its obligations to all Australians, something that this Government would not understand. The Labor Government moved to cover the two million persons in Australia- I repeat two million persons in Australia- who, because of the cost of private insurance and because of their inability to meet those costs, were not covered at all and depended upon their good health or, when sick, upon charity for the cost of their health care should that care become available. 
At the time when the Labor Party came into office masses of bad debts were incurred by our public hospitals. There were millions of dollars outstanding in unpaid health care; health care that people had to have but could not afford. It is a situation which the Minister is proud to announce we are returning to, one where health care is available to those who are sufficiently wealthy to be able to afford it; health care insurance based on the risk that one will remain healthy. There is no suggestion now by this Government, as there was prior to 1972, that universal health care by private insurance should exist. That point has gone by the board too. 
We do not even have a pretence that there should be some contribution from all Australians- in accordance with their ability to pay- towards the provision of health care services. No, this Government is saying that those who are young can take the risk and have a lower level of insurance. If they run into problems the hospitals will find some means of collecting their money, possibly by having debt collectors parked outside doors. There is no suggestion that a minimum level of insurance is not only desirable but also should be required as part of the normal attitude of a society which I would hope would be charitable enough to believe that people who are in ill-health, who are sick, are entitled to expect treatment. No longer is that a possibility, and one wonders at this Minister's criticism at the time of the introduction of Medibank and the suggestion then that doctors would create a situation of impossible costs if Medibank were introduced. 
How many members in the House now who were members in 1973-74 remember the present Minister, then the shadow spokesman for health, and other members of the present Government, sitting at the back with representatives of the Australian Medical Association, plotting to ensure that Medibank was not introduced, and arranging the voting in the Senate against the introduction of a levy to offset the Medibank payments. In adding up the figures for health care it is convenient to forget that the figures transferred from taxation have been transferred to compulsory contributions or contributions to health care organisations in order that adequate cover may be available to those people concerned about their health. Health is one of those areas where one is entitled to expect care; where that care should be available in accordance with one's needs and the need for treatment, irrespective of one's income or capacity to meet the financial costs. Unfortunately, that is not the Government's policy and it is not the policy which is being pursued currently within Australia. The amendment which the Opposition has moved to this Budget highlights what has occurred in the last three years. 
One remembers well the eulogies in this House by Government members about the Government transfer of the former provision of tax rebates in respect of children to increased family allowances. The Opposition was told by the Government, not altogether honestly, that the family allowance was actually a new reform and that new money was being pumped into the family through this system. Certainly some families benefited and some lost. In the year of its introduction the equation was about right. The families which lost were those on higher incomes. The families which gained were those on lower incomes and therefore it was not an unreasonable transfer of resources. But since then the tax concession in respect of children has gone. The family allowance scheme is now very much like the scheme which was introduced in 1950 when another conservative government came to power on a promise to pay child endowment for the first child- an appeal to greed rather than need. Nevertheless, that promise was honoured and in 1950 a five shilling child allowance fee was paid in respect of the first child to each family entitled to receive it. In 1972 families were still getting five shillings. An amount of ten shillings was still being paid to families in respect of the second child. It was an amount which had been fixed in 1947. 
The family allowance scheme is shaping up in exactly the same way. The changes in arrangments that took place in 1976 were said to be the greatest advance in care and understanding of the family by any government in modern times. I do not know about the care and the understanding, but I do know that in the last three years that amount has not been altered at all. The Government has completely forgotten about its undertakings. It refused to index the family allowance payments and therefore it is allowing those amounts to depreciate through inflation to amounts which are insignificant. People who would have gained under the tax rebate system are gaining nothing extra now because of the change to the family allowance scheme. People on low incomes have need of that amount of money and need government support, which was offered to them with such wide open arms and such acclamation; in fact, Government members when making speeches dislocated their arms trying to pat themselves on the back. I think they should now hang their heads in shame because the allowance has not been altered for three years and people in need of that support are not receiving it. The Government is good with slogans but poor on action. 
It has reduced its support for the education system and has made it clear that it does not consider that the State education system or the systematic Catholic schools education systemwhich deals with those people in the lower income groups in the general community- are worthy of support. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made it quite clear that, as far as he is concerned, there will continue to be a transfer of resources away from the low income school areas to the areas of the A class school. I have quite a few in my electorate. Members of this Government have talked and beaten hollow drums about their concern for the family and yet they are presiding over a situation where in every respect the levels of support for families, on a government basis, are being eroded by inflation. 
In the field of social security, children's allowances have been completely forgotten by the Government, as have tertiary allowances. Who is disadvantaged most by the freezing of those payments? They are the people who have the lowest income in the community. One's income has to be extremely low in order to qualify for those benefits. In this country today if one's income is under $10,000 a year one can expect no sympathy or concern at all from this Government. As the Minister has said, this Government's policies are to ensure that it delivers the goods. Every time it can get them over the wall it is delivering those goods as far away as it can. It shows no concern at all for the interests of Australia or Australians. It shows no concern at all for encouraging Australians to develop their own country. It believes that it is far better to take the easy and popular way out. 
After all, when the Prime Minister goes overseas, if someone has made a few million dollars out of a swift deal in Australia it is more likely than not that he will be welcomed in that person's country. We are selling out Australia. We have in vogue a multi-million dollar program which is designed to ask Australians to be proud of their country. One of the songs even says: Stop passing the buck'. This is a reversal of the normal situation in most areas, where the leaders of nations accept responsibility for the decisions they make. This is one government in which the leader never accepts responsibility for anything and never fails to get up in this House and say that it is someone else's fault, no matter what happens. 
The Minister for Health has just made a full speech in which he told the Parliament that he was upset about the Labor Party's policy on health, when he himself has introduced in Australia a situation where no greater confusion on health care has ever existed and no lesser cover has ever been available to those who are sick since health was accepted in this country as a government responsibility. I might add that that was done by referendum. The Government schemed and connived to prevent Medibank from coming into operation. Since it returned to office it has used the health system of Australia for any reason other than the delivery of health services. On one occasion it was used to reduce the cost of living index for temporary purposes, so that the Government could claim a reduction in inflation. 
In the Government's eyes, families do not count - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-This is the greatest assault on Parliament and the integrity of Parliament that has been seen in this country. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I would hope that the remarks of the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  would ensure a favourable hearing for the matter I have to raise tonight and which I think is an unfortunate matter because it deals with those people who have not taken that method of terminating pregnancies and have had children whom this Government is determined to discriminate against. For a number of years, there has been discrimination in most laws of the States and the Commonwealth of Australia against children born out of wedlock. Over a period- not a very long periodmost of those discriminations have been removed. Unfortunately, some still exist and they are the result, I believe, of a lack of application to the anomalies which exist in various forms of legislation. 
Tonight I wish to raise three particular matters- two dealing with children- which I hope the Government will look at. I hope it will adopt a consistent approach in respect of those people to whom it pays benefits. The first matter I raise is the situation of a war widow who, after the death of her husband, has a child. Under the existing law, that woman is not eligibile for payment in respect of that child by way of an additional payment to her war widow's pension. If she were in receipt of a civilian widow's pension, she would be eligible for such a payment in respect of that child. But because of the differences between the repatriation Acts, and veterans affairs and social services legislation, she is denied any payments in respect of that child. Thus the child itself is denied any assistance from the Government. That woman cannot make a claim under social security legislation in respect of that child because, in assessing the child 's entitlement to assistance, the amount of her war widow's pension is counted as income. Thus assistance is denied on the basis of her receiving a war widow's pension. What is left to a woman who is entitled to a war widow's pension because of the death of her husband through war-caused injuries is that she must forgo her war widow's pension and claim a social security pension in order to obtain what would be her right if the law were consistent in both instances. That is one instance that I wish to raise in respect of children. 
The other matter I wish to raise is in respect of the Government's approach to the situation of persons who are de factos. Whichever approach is adopted- the recognition or otherwise of de facto relationships- it ought to be consistent throughout all aspects of Commonwealth law. Unfortunately it is not. The Government adopts a situation, and knows that it adopts a situation, whereby discrimination takes place in all instances where de factos are confronted with an advantageous or disadvantageous position. Under the social security Act it is provided that persons living in a situation which may be deemed to be similar to that of a married couple shall be treated, for the purposes of that Act, as being married. I agree with that provision. I do not think that a state of non-marriage as against marriage should disadvantage a person. But, having denied the person access to the social security benefits available to a single person because the Commonwealth deems that person to be married, the Commonwealth then denies that same person- I can give instances involving exactly the same person- the right of being considered to be married in respect of taxation legislation where rebates for a wife are concerned under the income tax laws. So the Commonwealth takes upon itself the beneficial position in both instances: Where a social service benefit can be denied by the fact that a person in a de facto relationship is deemed to be married; and where a tax reduction can be denied because a person is not married, under its existing laws the Commonwealth considers that same person to be not married. That is a denial of justice and an anomaly in the law which should be corrected. One should either take the - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-by leave-The Opposition does not disagree with the decision just announced by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  to discontinue the Turana target aircraft project. It also does not disagree with the Minister's remark that it was reasonable previously to proceed with the project even though the prospect of success was not as great as one would have hoped. Defence technology and technology in general have to be put in such a position that experimentation with new systems can take place so that those on whom we depend for the advanced technological advice which may be required in a defence emergency can be exposed to problems. This project may have been unsuccessful but it may be that the investment in it was money well spent because of the technical advances and the increased technical capacity which evolved from the experimentation which took place. The fact that the problems in the ultimate were not able to be overcome is not a reason for not endeavouring to overcome those problems. 
The Minister referred to spin-off benefits which have come from the investment which has been made and the experimentation which has taken place in this project. Without trying to challenge the major powers in relation to major weapons systems, Australia has a very good record in defence technology for evolving and developing systems which are within a reasonable price range and which perform functions that have to be carried out not only by our own 
Defence Force but also by the defence forces of other nations. The Jindivik program has been a successful one. It probably would have been much more successful had the management arrangements for construction and marketing over a long period been more of a commercial nature. Nevertheless, approximately 500 of these pilotless aircraft have been manufactured and sold. During the period in which it was evolved its technical capacity was increased and the technical knowledge available to the Australian Defence Force and to Australian industry in general was advanced. 
If the criteria that money invested in this type of operation has to bring forward a result and end in success- that appears to be the criteria which the Auditor-General uses- were to be adopted either by the Government or by nongovernment agencies involved in seeking technological advances, then cobwebs would grow around the technicians and the technical capacity of the nation. We have to keep up with modern technology. We have to advance our technical knowledge within bounds which are reasonable according to our financial capacity. In order to do so we have to invest risk capital in development. This project is one which has been minimally unsuccessful. I doubt that it is fair to say that it has been completely unsuccessful even though it has not reached the manufacturing stage and has not actually resulted in the production of the type of target aircraft which the Navy requires. Other spin-offs have been and are available from the project, and other projects will benefit from the knowledge which has been gained. 
Other projects in the defence area have been highly successful. I think the Jindivik project was one and the Ikara was another. The Ikara antisubmarine missile has been able to be marketed internationally. We have developed an anti-tank missile which the British Army adopted. We have evolved the Mulloka sonar system, which one hopes will shortly be fitted to Australian vessels. Unfortunately we are cutting back the manpower resources of our weapons research establishments in a manner which may inhibit development in the future. Those responsible for government finances have inhibitions which tend to make difficult any rapid technological advances. I think it is fair to say that the Nomad project, which now could well be a significant commercial success, could have been killed at any time in the last 10 years had the reservations of those responsible for the financing of the project, such as Treasury and others, been accepted by any of the subsequent Cabinets which dealt with the project. 
The Opposition does not oppose the statement made by the Minister for Defence. However, on behalf of the Opposition, I say that I hope that this project's failure to come to complete fruition does not stop research in this area of technological advance. In the not too distant future Australia will need, not target drones for the Navy, but the type of aircraft which has a substantial range and which can act as a substantial carrier of our surveillance equipment without the necessity for piloted aircraft. There is and will be in the near future a need for a nation such as Australia which has wide spaces and great areas of coastline to put into operation and maintain remote controlled vehicles .such as the Jindivik with substantially greater capacity than exists at the moment. We have to keep up with technology ourselves. We should not allow ourselves to be dependent on others for all the things we need to defend ourselves. The Opposition does not oppose the proposition in the Minister's statement. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I want to make it clear to the House that the reason the Opposition has not divided on this matter is that Estimates Committees are meeting and we feel that a division would be an unnecessary disruption. We did want to pursue the matter but the Government has obviously decided that its defence is to gag the debate. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
I ) What incidents involving HMAS  Melbourne  have (a) resulted in damage to (i) the ship, (ii) its equipment or other vessels and (iii) aircraft and (b) resulted in loss of life since the  Melbourne  entered service with the Royal Australian Navy. 
What was the official finding as to the cause of each incident. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
Will the revised military disciplinary code be implemented. 
Has there been a 5-year delay in consideration of the draft code presented to the Parliament by the Government; if so, why. 
If the Government has decided not to proceed with revision of the code (a) what is the reason and (b) is he satisfied that the legal rights of servicemen are adequately protected by the existing code. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek your guidance for a moment. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I raise a matter which I hope will be of concern to all members of this House. Some two weeks ago, I raised in this House the question of discrimination against women who, having been widowed - 
-I think it is unfortunate that the honourable member for Bendigo seeks to make a joke of what I consider to be a very serious matter. The case I refer to is that of a women who, having been widowed, subsequently has a child and that child is treated by the Department of Veterans' Affairs as nonexistent where the woman receives a war pension. The Department of Veterans' Affairs takes the position that the child, not being the child of the husband as a result of whose war service the woman receives a war widows pension, is not the responsibility of that Department. That may be an acceptable argument. It is an argument which previously applied to social security widows pensions but which, in a period of some enlightenment, was changed. I do not think that it is the responsibility of Acts of Parliament to moralise on the conduct of people to the extent that they are fined and their children are disadvantaged. 
I raise this matter in this House for the second time because I hope that at least some Government members will have sufficient concern to take the matter up. The Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann),  in answer to correspondence from me, has indicated that he is not going to do anything about the matter. He has left it to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  The situation of a woman who has a child not covered by a war widows pension because it is not a child of the deceased exserviceman whose offspring attract a pension, is that if she applies to the Department of Social Security for coverage of that child, the war widows pension is applied as a means test against her in assessing whether the childrens allowance will be paid in respect of that child. If she were receiving a social security widows pension, the child would be covered automatically, but because she is receiving a war widows pension, she is denied cover for the child under either form of pension. In one case the Department of Veterans' Affairs says that it is not the child of the ex-serviceman and in the other case the Department of Social Security says to the woman: 'Your widows pension is such that it excludes you, because of the means test, from getting coverage for that child '. 
I consider that this is a simple anomaly which should be able to be corrected. It was corrected in the case of social security pensions where such children who were born subsequent to a woman being widowed were excluded. They are no longer excluded. But they are excluded under this system. I consider it to be an anomaly and I hope that sufficient members of the Government will be prepared to take it up with the Minister concerned and with other Ministers to have the situation reversed. 
Society sets certain moral standards. I do not believe that it is the place of veterans' affairs or the social security legislation to moralise to the extent of discriminating against people in lowincome brackets for making mistakes that other people can make without any cost at all. I do not believe that an Act of Parliament should prescribe celibacy for anyone, whether they are married or not. But that virtually is what the present legislation does. What it is really saying to that woman is that she has to give up her war widows pension and take a social security pension in order to get coverage for that child because of the cross use of the means test. This is the second time I have raised this matter. I hope that someone will do something about it. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 25 September 1 979: 
1 ) What contributions has the Commonwealth made to memorials to prominent (a) Australians and (b) non-Australians. 
On what date was each contribution approved and to whom was it made. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 11 September 1979: 
Will representations made by members of (a) Federal and (b) State Parliaments on behalf of constituents be required to be accompanied by the prescribed fee under the changed arrangements announced in his statement to the House on 22 August 1979. 
-During Question Time yesterday the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm 
Fraser) said of me, during the period that I was Speaker of this House: 
He - referring to me- 
Would know quite well that use and abuse that Ministers made of that in those circumstances. He also showed a very great readiness to name honourable members who took points of order that were not points of order. The parliamentary  Hansard  will record that. 
At the time I indicated that that statement was incorrect. The statement is incorrect. During the period that I was Speaker of this Parliament two members were suspended from the service of the House. 
Well, some people just get - 
-Fortunately, the honourable member for La Trobe was not here. Two members were suspended during the period that I was  Speaker  of the House. The then honourable member for Mackellar was suspended for disorderly conduct and the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  who was  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party at the time, was suspended for refusing to obey a directive from the Chair, in that he was ordered to resume his seat, and he refused to do so. A number of honourable members were warned because of conduct which, at that time, the Chair judged was not in the best interests of the House. Honourable members were warned for making fallacious points of order. In the statement that I made yesterday I said that I agreed with the particular point raised by the Prime Minister and,  Mr Speaker,  I agree with your ruling on it too. Some honourable members were - 
-I am not debating the matter. I am saying that in fact some honourable members were named, and when they agreed to obey the ruling of the Chair further action did not follow. Only one honourable member of this House could be said to have been suspended because of action connected with taking a false point of order; and that was for refusing to obey the Chair's ruling to resume his seat. I would have hoped that the Prime Minister of Australia would acknowledge that the Chair cannot - 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
How many major items of the Defence Force equipment have been lost or seriously damaged (a) in joint service exercises involving other national forces, (b) in Australian exercises and (c) when being operated by persons who were not members of the Australian Defence Force in each of the last 5 years. 
-I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: In view of the imminent declaration of Australia 's 200-mile economic zone, is the Minister aware of United States law which declares tuna a free swimming fish and bans any country declaring a 200-mile zone from interfering with the rights of United States fishing vessels to catch tuna in those areas? Is the Minister also aware that the same law prescribes that any interruption to the rights of a United States vessel under these circumstances will result in all possible sanctions being placed on the country concerned? In view of the fact that tuna is one of the more controversial fish in the area, and with effect on Australia and this region, what action has the Government taken to ensure that Australia will have full control over the operations of all fishing vessels and other activities in Australia's zone? 
-Because of the procedure that has been taken, it is necessary to deal with more than one clause at a time. I think it is important to point out exactly the sorts of consequential arrangements which the Government is making in respect of clause 35 (4), which the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  raised. I do not think anyone would dispute the Evatt derived definitions which were brought in in the 1940s. They provided that a person who was involved in a dispute or who stood to benefit from a dispute was not eligible to apply for the unemployment benefit. In effect, that meant that a key man, which was the description at that time, or a small group of key men in an industry could not be pulled out in order to pursue an industrial dispute while the remainder of the people in that industry were paid the unemployment benefit. For example, in the railways if signalmen or a few train controllers were to go out it would probably tie up the railways system in most States and other persons employed in the railways would be eligible to obtain the unemployment benefit. That sort of industrial action was specifically outlawed as far as the Social Security Act was concerned. 
Later definitions by the honourable William Wentworth when he was the Minister for Social Services laid down that where some members of a union were in dispute, as a result of that dispute other members of that union were stood down. That was an extension of the earlier principle but it had the same effect as this amending legislation has to the Social Security Act. It meant that a person who in no way stood to benefit from a dispute, who was in no way able to influence the decisions or the actions of those in the dispute, would be punished merely because of his membership of the organisation which covered a particular calling. 
It is not unreasonable to draw attention to a union such as the Miscellaneous Workers Union or the Australian Workers Union whose awards cover a massive diversity of occupations. Members within those unions do not necessarily attend- and in the case of the AWU they do not attend at all- meetings of members covered by other sections of the union. They have, in fact, an amalgamation of a number of small unions. Yet under this legislation if members of that union, for instance, were involved in the power dispute in Queensland, because of some narrow association of their membership they would be deemed ineligible for unemployment benefit. In a dispute in Victoria a few years ago, because one member of a union involved in a power dispute- the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia which the honourable member for Port Adelaide mentioned- the persons employed by the companies involved, namely the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd and General Motors-Holden's Ltd, and other vehicle builders union employing organisations in Melbourne which were neither in the dispute nor stood to benefit from the dispute, were all deemed to be ineligible for unemployment benefit. Under this legislation, they certainly would be ineligible for unemployment benefit. But the decision in that case was reversed. The 
Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann),  who is at the table, unfortunately is not the Minister in control of the Bill. Clearly, the Government is prepared to allow honourable members to debate the legislation but is not prepared to listen to the argument in any significant way by providing a Minister who has some authority in the area. 
I submit to the Committee that in taking this legislation to the stage at which it is now before the chamber, the Government is merely providing for a punishment for persons for being members of a trade union, of a protective association for their rights. That is the import and the meaning of this piece of legislation- to punish a person because he is a member of a trade union, not because he is involved in an industrial dispute and not because he is in any way supporting or in control of an industrial dispute, or has any say or derives any benefit from that dispute. What the Government is doing here is saying that if a trade union covers a particular area where a dispute exists, all persons throughout Australia who are members of that trade union stand to lose, whether or not they have any say. I will not say any more about this clause, but it is indicative of the standards which this Government is setting itself within the Australian community. 
The Government feels that strikes are unpopular. It feels that unions are unpopular and it feels that unemployment benefit recipients are unpopular. So it feels free to legislate in order to punish people for being members of unions or for taking industrial action. But in this case the Government is not punishing the person taking the action; it is seeking to punish any person who is a member of a trade union which is involved in an industrial dispute. I draw the Committee's attention to the breadth of the cover of some organisations within the trade union movement. But the Government does not apply similar sanctions in the case of commercial activities. In fact it runs away from similar legislation in respect of restrictive trade, control of trade and control of commerce, where actions which penalise the community heavily are not covered in any way by any forms of legislation where redress can be found. I want to deal with one other clause and if time permits, I will come back to it at a later stage. 
It is proposed in this legislation to extend to six weeks the mandatory period for which a person who voluntarily leaves employment will be barred from receiving unemployment benefit. I want to raise a matter in this respect and I hope that honourable members opposite will take it seriously because, unfortunately, it happens fairly regularly in our society. I cite the case of a girl who seeks employment and finds employment in an industry only to discover that her position is one that she morally believes to be intolerable, where pressure is placed on her either for favours or merely to satisfy some need of a fellow employee or employer. If that girl leaves her employment by way of resignation, she now will be subject to six weeks without unemployment benefit. It is like the old complaint about a person having to prove that she was raped, not a person having to prove that he did not commit rape. Unless she can go before an officer of the Department of Social Security who is quite likely to be a young male- and I say 'quite likely' because that is a SO per cent chance with an assessment officer- and proves that the conditions under which she was employed were intolerable to her personally- and, I would suggest, it is not unusual; that it does happen that girls are taken advantage of- she has to take the choice of whether she will put up with the indignities of maintaining her employment under those circumstances or suffer the further and doubtful indignities of trying to prove to an officer in an abstract situation that she has been treated in a way which probably would have criminal implications if it could be proved in court. 
I believe that the Government is placing on that person a burden of proof which is beyond reason. It is certainly unreasonable to punish a person because she is unable to reduce her moral standards to that level which this Government apparently seeks to apply. I think it is an imposition in an Act of Parliament which should not and cannot continue to exist with impunity. I believe that the clause should be reconsidered by the Government because what it is doing is reinforcing the position of those persons who would take advantage of their employees in a manner which has nothing to do with their employment whatsoever. In doing that the Government is totally immoral. 
-Earlier in this debate I raised two matters which were somewhat distorted by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier).  Nevertheless, I think I should reiterate at least one of those matters. The situation as it exists in this legislation- I think the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  has made clear that he feels it should exist- is that people are to be fined not less than $300 if they leave work for circumstances which they cannot satisfy an assessor warranted their leaving their employment. I do not think the honourable member for Petrie has ever worked for wages under an employer in his life, certainly not if his attitudes expressed here mean anything. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  There is no need for any member of the Parliament to justify comments made. This is a Committee debate and honourable members are entitled to express their points of view in due course. 
-I point out to the honourable member who suggested that people should just go and get a job that there are over 1,000 girls seeking clerical and administrative employment registered in my electorate. Some of them have reached the stage of absolute frustration at turning up at the same places week after week genuinely looking for employment. Fewer than 10 jobs are registered at the local Commonwealth Employment Service office. If the honourable member for Petrie can go to Geelong and put 1,000 girls into work next week, as he suggests they ought to go to work - 
-The honourable member said that they should go and start work tomorrow. He should go to my electorate. I will show him 1 ,000 girls and if he can put one of them into a job he will have done a good turn to everyone; if he can put them all into jobs he will have performed a miracle. The honourable member is talking through his hat when he suggests that people should work when his own Government's organisation has less than one job vacancy for every 20 people registered as unemployed. I return to the provisions of the Bill in regard to these circumstances. 
For the honourable member to go back to making such comments is to run away from what he said before. He said there was work available for these people. There is not. 
The honourable member said they ought to go out and get a day's work. I refer mainly to the position of girls. I am extremely concerned about the effect that this law will have on their situations. If a girl goes to an employer and obtains a job now she will have no protection under the law against harassment either of a moral or a physical nature. Like the rape victim, now she will be placed in the position in which she must prove that she was offended against. She must prove it to a person who may well have no real training to be an assessor or a person who may have no sympathy for her position. I do not attack anyone, but it is fair to say that it is usual for this type of judgment to be made by an assessor who, because of his employment, because he hears the same type of story week in week out, can become quite hardened to the human situation. He has no discretion in many cases. He has to act in a manner which originally may have offended him but which finally becomes an automatic reaction. It is also not unusual for people to become disbelieving. If a girl is harassed and leaves employment because she feels she cannot continue to be employed in that situation, under this legislation she will have to prove that she was justified in losing work or face the loss of the unemployment benefit for six weeks. 
I raise another matter concerned with this matter. Honourable members opposite see great virtue in punishing those on the lowest incomes in our society. 
-The honourable member made an interjection a few minutes ago which indicated to me that he thinks it is wrong to punish those people who pinch millions but that it is all right at every opportunity getting to the people who get $50 a week. 
I raise a matter which is very serious and which I think the Government ought to know about because I cannot believe that a government which knew about the situation would allow it to continue. I refer to people who undertake Citizen Military Force training in the military reserve. I hope that honourable members opposite will not say that these were the types of people they call dole bludgers. If they go into camp as part of their army reserve training, when they cease the camp they are forced to serve a week's waiting period before they are restored to the unemployment benefit. Honourable members opposite might like to know that because it is a fact. I think it is one of the most scurrilous acts that any government could possibly perpetrate on an organisation in relation to which the Government is currently spending thousands of dollars in advertising to seek employer co-operation. Yet if a young man who joins the CMF is unemployed at the time of his camp he is penalised a week's unemployment benefit because he went into camp. That is a situation which I think at least the Government could deal with, even if it does not give a damn about the other people it is punishing. 
I turn to the matter of extensions. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  made quite clear what his position on this is when he said that since the unions contribute to the Labor Party any union member should cop whatever consequences are necessary. If the Government were taking legislative action which would prevent persons who are not entitled to the unemployment benefit from receiving it I do not think anyone would object. But the Government is bringing down legislation which is designed to carry out an industrial purpose. The honourable member for Bendigo made it quite clear that that was what he saw this legislation as- a piece of industrial legislation designed to punish those people who, although not being involved in a strike but being members of a union, happen to be stood down for a period in excess of one week. 
I do not disagree with the key man theory involving small numbers of persons being pulled out of an industry and stopping the whole industry. Here we have a situation where persons who have no say, who have no input at all or who receive no benefit as a result of an industrial dispute will be punished. I give a parallel situation: In the case of two men who are working beside one another in a plant which is not on strike and who ultimately are stood down, the person who stands to benefit financially by the results of the strike but who is not a member of the union will be paid unemployment benefit because he is not a member of the union. The man beside him who is a member of the union and who may have no beneficial expectations as a result of that strike will be punished by not being paid the unemployment benefit. There is no discretion. The person who is a member of the union may have had to join the union in order to get the job that he has got. He may have been on the job for two days after being two years out of work but he would still be fined his unemployment benefit because he did what every working man needs to do to protect his own position, and that is he joined his union. It is clear from the honourable member for Bendigo 's remarks that what the Government is about is, under the Social Services Act, using people's traumas caused by lack of income to carry out what it sees as an industrial purpose that it thinks will be popular. It is legislation by slogans, and not by any other form. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I want to raise similar matters to those raised by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  A number of groups fought at a very high level of organisation and efficiency with allied servicemen during the Second World War but there could be some doubt as to whether they were regularly raised forces. There could also be some doubt as to whether governments in exile with which these forces could have been associated actually existed. Nevertheless, these groups carried out tasks of regular forces, quite often under the command of allied officers, including those of the United States and Britain, and under the direction of the Allied Command Headquarters in Europe. The groups I have mentioned relate specifically to Europe, but a similar situation exists with regard to the war against Japan in which in a number of cases persons not in regularly raised forces served at great risk to themselves. I instance East Timor. It would have been difficult for a regularly raised force to exist there because Portugal was not involved in the war and East Timor was technically a Portuguese colony. I recognise that there are difficulties of establishment and definition. Nevertheless, in some of these areas the risks taken by persons on behalf of Australian servicemen were very great. Every effort should be made to give them the benefit of this extension of the legislation. 
Whilst some Vietnamese would be disqualified by subsequent actions, it is a fact that a substantial proportion of the forces of Vietnam fought with the Americans against the Japanese during the Second World War at a time when the French forces which had control of that area were subject to Vichy control. A good number in that Vietnamese force would have ceased to be eligible for this benefit because they continued on as servicemen of the Viet Cong and fought on an enemy side. But there are quite obviously some persons who would not have been involved in the subsequent war but who nevertheless would have taken great risks. In fact, I recall MacArthur's saying that such people had served the Allies well and had tied up a number of 
Japanese divisions by their activities in that area. Under the definitions before the House at the moment, members of those forces are excluded from receiving benefits. 
I recognise the difficulties. I also recognise that the definition of a government in exile is one which will very much make it a lottery situation. If some substantial personage went into exile and was able to form a government, those who fought with the allies would be able to obtain some degree of recognition. Where it was not possible for that to be done but where the degree of contribution was the same, they would be excluded from receiving benefits under the interpretation being put before the House. I raise this matter because the Government has moved to extend the payment of a service benefit. The honourable member for Prospect indicated that a person has to be 60 years of age and to have been in Australia for a number of years so it is not something which a person could walk in and claim. I think it is fairly readily establishable whether or not a person served with partisan forces or in some other force which fought on our side during the last war. I hope that the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  will pursue the matter and extend the provisions to the maximum breadth to cover service men who served with allied forces during the war, particularly those who took the greatest risks on behalf of Australian servicemen. Some who were not in regular forces took extremely great risks. That is all I wish to say on the matter. 

 Government members interjecting- 

-I find it quite disheartening that members opposite consider this to be a joke. There were people who daily risked their lives on behalf of Australian servicemen. I think that members of this House are entitled not only to recognise the contribution they made but also, at this late hour with some minor inconvenience, to recognise that if we are extending the benefit to persons who served with allied forces, those people who were not able to be members of forces raised by governments because they were in places where governments could not exist, should also be covered. I hope that the Minister is able to find a formula by which those persons can be covered. 
-I do not really think that the remarks of the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  warrant an answer, but if he were concerned about the Vietnam war he was of the age to have gone himself instead of staying here. The fact of the situation is that there are persons who risked their lives on behalf of Australian servicemen and there are honourable members now in this House who owe their lives to some of those persons. Those persons are not covered by this Bill. I have asked the Minister a question which has nothing to do with foreign policy or the rights or wrongs of the involvement of Australian servicemen or our Allies in various forms of conflict. We have argued that matter. That is not the responsibility of the servicemen. It is the responsibility of politicians. Those who would seek to hide behind servicemen in order to justify their political decisions should be prepared to stand up and accept the responsibilities for their political decisions, right or wrong. 
I reiterate what I said before. I believe that the legislation, if at all possible, should be extended to cover those persons. I make no other plea and I make no argument against the rights or wrongs of some other action. I think the honourable member for Fadden is well out of court. I do not disagree with his comment about Australian servicemen. I hope that the same position does not apply under the existing arrangements. The Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  is aware of a case which he has before him of a British seaman, whether Service or otherwise, and the establishment of that case is becoming extraordinarily protracted. I do not want to raise that matter tonight either. There are people who contributed greatly to the allied cause, especially in the Second World War, to whom Australia owes a great debt of gratitude, and who will not be covered by this Bill. If it is at all possible a formula should be devised whereby they can make application if they are living in Australia. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman- 

Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  proposed: 
That the question be now put 
The DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN-Hansard  will note the honourable member's remarks. I put the question: 
That the question be now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Amendments agreed to. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- The question now is: 
 That the Bill, as amended, be agreed to. 
I wish to make one or two remarks. I will not hold up the Committee for long. I will not take as long as it will take if the Government Whip decides to gag me. The Government has decided to alter selectively the recommendations of the Remuneration Tribunal. It has also decided over a period of 12 months to implement the recommendations of the Tribunal which favour the Government. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  should give some explanation for the Government's decisions. Last year when a recommendation was made about additional staff for the Opposition- I am one of the members of the Opposition front bench who do not have additional staff- the Government rejected the proposition. Yet it devised a means of increasing the salary ranges and conditions of the limited number of staff so appointed in a manner which made the cost to the Government almost identical to that which would have applied had the recommendations of the Tribunal been adopted. Added to that, the Government decided outside the terms of the recommendation- I am sure that this was a matter which the Tribunal had considered and not decided on in a way that was favourable to the Government- to give five staff members to Government committees to operate on behalf of private members of the Government back bench. I think that the Committee is entitled to an explanation of that decision. If we are talking about reducing staff for the purposes of cost saving, the Government may have a moral argument although I have some doubts about that. But when the Government makes a decision to implement measures which are favourable to the Government and which the Tribunal has deemed fit not to support and make recommendations on, the Government ought to tell the Committee why it is reversing the decision of the umpire. 
I wish to raise another matter. It is quite clear that the limitations being placed by this legislation are being placed for a political purpose and nothing else. There is no suggestion that any limitation should be placed on Ministers. There is no suggestion that any economies should be exercised by Ministers. In fact, the Minister for Administrative Services could tell us that he has recently approved a change in the allocation of motor vehicles to Ministers in a way which is making it difficult for honourable members to get to Parliament House on the morning after the House sits late because of the unavailability of cars. There is now a permanent allocation of cars to Ministers whether use of those cars is required or not. Those cars, even if they are not being used, are not available to the car pool in Canberra, despite the shortfalls. I also hope that the Government Whip will ask the Minister because of this shortage of Commonwealth cars to return to the situation where cars are available to Ministers on request and as required. That situation would apply to office holders as well. It was the situation which applied when I was an office holder. 
I do not intend to proceed further. I think the Government is playing petty politics. It is not seeking to save money but merely trying to give the appearance of doing so. The expansion in expenditure of Government funds for political purposes on behalf of the Government parties in a number of guises is obvious to everyone. It is obvious that this is a cosmetic arrangement and certainly it does not cany through some of the other announcements made recently by the Government. In reply, the Minister will tell us what happened to the reported decision of the Government relating to annual indexation of parliamentary salaries? It is not included in the amendment or the Bill. There are a number of other matters and I think we could debate the subject at great length. But I think that at some stage members of Parliament will have to give some consideration to their position and standing. The Tribunal is a good idea provided it is allowed to make decisions, favourable or unfavourable to honourable members and Ministers. The Tribunal ceases to be of any practical value if it is going to be used only as a stalking horse for political advantage. That is what has happened under both governments in recent years. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 27 September 1979: 
Will he bring up to date the information provided in his answer to Question No. 1204  (Hansard, 8 September 1977, page 993). 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
1 ) Will proposals to reduce or cease operation of defence installations at (a) Marrangaroo, NSW, (b) Ettamogah, NSW, (c) Penrith, NSW, (d) Gladstone, SA, (e) Springhill, WA and (f) Macrossan, Qld, result in employment levels being reduced. 
2 ) Are the defence installations referred to in part ( 1 ) the major or only employment available in those locations. 
Will the changed defence arrangements remove from all or any of these centres all employment available. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
What will be the effect on employment levels of the amalgamation of existing Supply Storages at South Kensington and Broadmeadows, Victoria. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
Will the removal of Defence installations in Victoria from Seymour to Puckapunyal result in any loss of employment opportunities in the Seymour region. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 October 1 979: 
1 ) Has he approved a study into the removal of the existing Army establishment at Singleton, New South Wales, to another location; if so, what is the proposed site of relocation. 
Have any decisions concerning relocation been made; if so, when will an announcement be made. 
-I rise on a matter of privilege.  Mr Speaker,  I ask you to examine the answer given by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  today and the transcript of the parliamentary Estimates Committee. The Minister for Health has indicated that officers of his Department misled the Estimates Committee in giving evidence. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Bills. I will be relatively brief as there are other people who wish to speak in this debate and I understand that time is fairly limited. The Canned Fruits Marketing Bill seeks to establish a statutory marketing authority to acquire and sell at home and abroad canned deciduous fruits produced in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. I understand that complementary legislation will be required in the States and that Tasmania, which produces no canned fruit, and Western Australia, which produces a small amount, will not be participating in the scheme. It is a scheme which follows a number of similar schemes with regard to other primary products and which will, if it works as anticipated, bring about a degree of stability in the industry, something which has long been needed. I think it will correct some of the problems which have arisen in the canned fruit industry over a number of years. 
Not all of those problems have been the responsibility of the growers. Some have been as a result of political decisions taken outside of Australia, such as the formation of the European Economic Community. Some have been as a result of bad advice given to growers, especially in Victoria, by those whom they would see as their political representatives. I point out that in the early 1960s, for instance, political spokesmen, believing they were gaining some political kudos, were advising growers in Victoria to plant additional pear trees. At that time Britain had not achieved entry into the European Common Market. A considerable amount of investment by growers in this area proved to be, to use a pun, fruitless. This Government has spent considerable amounts of money to correct the bad advice given to fruit growers at that time by members of the then Government. 
There is also in this industry a problem which has existed in a number of other areas of primary production. State governments have preferred to take the popular position almost without question, and without taking any account of the consequences for the growers themselves, by seeking to expand their own segments of industry or encouraging expansions where such expansions were economically not viable. In many cases this has resulted in very serious hardship to people who have taken the advice of political popularists not prepared to face up to realities and to accept responsibilities. 
A considerable section of Australian primary producers is, in fact, dependent on this industry and the stability of this industry for their incomes. These Bills will, as I indicated before, if they work in accordance with the hopes of the industry, correct some of those anomalies. It remains to be seen whether or not this arrangement can withstand the onslaught of any temporary shortage or market upsurge which may take place in the industry in the future. That is the greatest danger that exists to stabilised or organised marketing. This industry is moving into an area where a number of other segments of primary industry have successfully and unsuccessfully attempted to move over some considerable time. Some of the schemes which have operated successfully have, in fact, fallen before the altars of temporary shortages or temporarily high prices where growers or other entrepreneurs have chosen to move outside the organised marketing system to an extent that they have wrecked the long-term prospects of organised marketing and stability of an industry. We have a situation at the moment where, for instance, egg growers, being producers, are extremely concerned about the by-play between the marketing schemes in the Australian Capital Territory. The Minister may look at those at some stage, as well as those which exist in the States. 
With regard to this particular legislation, the Opposition's position is fairly clear. We have always supported organised marketing. We recognise this as an improvement. We would indicate that it is somewhat late on the scene but acknowledge that it usually takes some form of crisis or some threat of long-term and continual political damage to political parties in order to have action of this nature taken. That is especially so where it is necessary to obtain the agreement of a number of governments. Unfortunately, conservative governments tend to want to take the popularist view. Rarely are they prepared to sit down and take the hard decisions that are often necessary in the best interests of the long-term position of people who depend on fluctuating incomes and fluctuating price structures within industry for their incomes and livelihood. The Opposition is not opposed to the measure and indicates to the House that it will be looking at the working of this particular scheme. It will be bringing forward to the House, if necessary, recommendations for modifications or changes if it is seen not to be working in the best interests of all concerned. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) What hostile or warlike action in which Australian servicemen have been involved will be accepted as qualifying those servicemen for basic service benefit payments. 
Will persons who assisted Australian forces in (a) Timor, (b) Malaysia, (c) Indonesia, (d) the Middle East, (e) Papua New Guinea and (f) other areas where Australian forces were involved, qualify for the benefits. 
Will persons who were involved in organised opposition to enemies of Australia after the dissolution or defeat of their national forces qualify for benefit. 
-by leave-As one of the members of the delegation I think it is important to draw the attention of the House to the importance of direct communication between members of the Australian Parliament and areas in which we have a direct interest, politically, economically and socially. The matters that were highlighted for members of the delegation during the visit to France were the differences in problems which exists for the government and administration of France as opposed to Australia as well as the closeness with which the countries of Europe are integrated in the European Common Market, the Commission of the European Communities and the European Parliament which was engaged in its first direct elections during the period we were in France. France's position relating to energy and discussions which were held with the European Atomic Energy Community indicated the difficulties which confront a country or an area which is totally devoid of natural energy resources. The discussions indicated how fortunate Australia is to have very extensive reserves of energy on which it can draw and from which it can derive extreme benefit if those energy reserves are properly managed and are put to use for the benefit of the Australian people. 
One of the matters which I think most delegates would have found of concern was the lack of any indication of real movement on access for Australian agricultural products. An area of concern which was expressed to us during our discussions with members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development was the development of the world economy over the next five years. Certainly we in this Parliament tend to live in an atmosphere of unreality and quite often we have misleading sloganising rather than the facts in many matters. I think it would have been obvious to those members of the delegation and other members of this Parliament who visited Europe at about the same time that some of the world's problems are quite different from the way in which they are portrayed to this Parliament. 
The delegation had useful discussions on those areas which you mentioned,  Mr Speaker.  I hope that the links which have been established will be maintained by this Parliament in the future. Whilst it is important to maintain links with other parts of the world, it should not be overlooked at any time that Europe is important to Australia as a trading area, a commercial area and an area from which we have traditionally sought guidance on international affairs and in which we have sought to establish our right to trade. The visit by an Austraiian delegation was sought by the French Government over a long period. I think it is important in future not only to send delegations overseas but also to pay the country extending the invitation the courtesy of not trying to withdraw from any invitation we have accepted. 
-The Opposition welcomes the concept in the Defence Amendment Bill and the associated measures. The position of servicemen in respect to the passing on of changes to their salaries and their actual salary structure has been unsatisfactory over a long period. The practice of requiring that regulations be drafted in order to change that salary structure is one which has become extraordinarily cumbersome. It has caused dissatisfaction and extreme delays in some areas of the Services with respect to the passing on of increases in salaries and changes of conditions of that nature to serving members of the armed forces. The other portion of the Bill, that which empowers the appointment of acting chiefs of staff to the Defence Force or an arm of the Defence Force, is a clarification of what would be a necessary appointment in the absence of the person who for the time being held that position. The Opposition welcomes the change and congratulates the Minister on having made a long overdue reform to the manner of fixing Service salaries. The Opposition, however, intends to move an amendment which expresses an opinion on the method by which that change should take place rather than the method which is being adopted in this legislation. I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to provide that- 
the Tribunal be empowered to make determinations instead of recommendations; 
such determinations should have the same standing and application as determinations of the Public Service Board; and 
the Tribunal should operate in a similar manner to the Remuneration Tribunal in respect of submissions and evidence', 
The difference between the amendment and what is, in fact, in the Bill is that the tribunal which is to all intents and purposes structured similarly to other wage determining bodies, which operate within the various areas of the Public Service and government employees, and would formulate determinations which would have the force of law and would be disallowable only by a resolution of either House of Parliament. That is a situation which applies to all Public Service determinations and those which are fixed under other forms of tribunal which fix government salaries. It would in effect mean that if the Government decided not to adopt any of the decisions of the tribunal the Government would be required to seek disallowance in the Parliament. 
Under the terms of the legislation set out in the Bill disallowance can take place by the Minister withholding his signature. Therefore it is not necessary for any public act to take place in order to disallow, although provision is made for a determination made by the Minister to be disallowed by Parliament, which I think is a highly unlikely event. I think it is equally unlikely that the determinations of the tribunal will not be given force of law by the Minister of the day or the Government of the day. It would be very difficult for the Government to disallow services and conditions for members of the armed forces where they were adjudged to be entitled to those increases by a tribunal. The Opposition moves this amendment because it believes that the defence forces should be substantially on the same ground and have their pay fixing made in the same way as other government employees. They are as dependent on and are entitled to expect the same consideration in respect of wages, salaries and conditions as other persons. The tribunal as it operates at the moment has as its members a presidential member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, a commissioner of that body and one other person. It is an independent body capable of fixing or judging salaries and certainly well able to fix or judge salaries on the same basis as applies to other government employees and the community in general. 
The last paragraph of the Opposition's amendment indicates that the tribunal should operate in a similar manner to the Remuneration Tribunal. That, in effect acknowledges the fact that there are at this time no associations or organisations which in fact represent members of the armed forces. Therefore, the making of submissions and the giving of evidence to the tribunal by individuals, as is the case with the Remuneration Tribunal which deals with the salaries of members of this Parliament, academics and senior public servants, would appear to be the only method by which members of the Services or persons with an interest in the salaries and structures of members of the Services could make representations to the tribunal, give evidence to the tribunal or seek to refute any submissions which may be made or any decisions which may have been made by the tribunal at other times. I reiterate- I do not intend to labour the point-that I believe that it should be that the tribunal is an independent body that fixes conditions by determination and that the Minister, who is the administrative head and in fact the head of the defence forces should not be seen to be the person who ultimately makes the decisions which in all other areas of the Public Service, except the Parliament if I may say so, are reserved for independent tribunals. The Minister should not be seen as having the power to disallow merely by withholding his signature. The power to disallow exists in the Parliament. A government can take that step at any time it wishes, although it is a most unusual step. To my knowledge it has been taken only once, and it was not taken by the present Government. The Opposition's amendment which I have outlined, expresses an opinion and a principle which I hope will ultimately be drafted into the legislation. It is certainly not the Opposition's intention at this time to delay what is a welcome reform. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. It provides some changes to the Act which will benefit a limited number of pensioners who, because of a lowered classification, have lost the right, under the existing Act, to seek reclassification to higher grades. Under the amendments which are proposed in this piece of legislation, in future those persons will have a right of appeal for reclassification from Class C to higher classes of pension. This change will make a difference to some pensioners, although it will not be an extensive change. 
The Bill provides also that persons who are in receipt of class C pensions who in the future are invalided out, may choose to take a lump sum payment by commutation of future pension benefits. However, the legislation does not permit those people who have already retired to accept that course of commutation for that portion which would be available to them if they were to make that choice. The reason for that is that the amounts which would be involved are extremely low and, therefore, would most likely be disadvantageous to the serviceman. I am not sure that that is a judgment that this Parliament should make; rather, the serviceman, if he chooses to take a very small lump sum for the remainder of the commutation period- provided he is fully aware of the consequences- should be entitled - to make an independent judgment. However, the Bill does not have that provision. It seeks to protect the serviceman from an error of judgment on his part. The Bill is basically beneficial to a limited number of servicemen. It removes a couple of anomalies from the Act and extends commutation to servicemen who currently are denied access to it. 
There is one other matter I wish to raise- I do not intend to detain the House for long- and that is the continued failure of the Government to give any indication of its consideration of what is known as the Bonnett report on the anomalies between pensions under the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Fund and others under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. This report has been in the hands of the Government for a considerable time. I understand that it was given the status of an official reort by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The concern being expressed by a considerable number of DFRB pensioners who have been retired for a long time at least indicates the need for a statement from the Government of its intention as to whether it will take any action as a result of that report. The expectations of those pensioners were created by the Government permitting the setting up of a committee and indicating that it was prepared to consider the recommendations made by  Mr Bonnett  in that report. The committee was set up by the present Government and was approved of by the present Prime Minister. I understand that  Mr Bonnett  still has not been recompensed for the expenses involved in preparing and presenting the report which the Government appointed him to undertake. The Government obviously has not accepted financial liability for this task. The anomalies to which I have referred are a matter of some concern to a number of fairly senior retired Service personnel, who are significantly worse off than people who retired shortly after them. The Government created an expectation and it should indicate to those retired pensioners whether their expectations are real or imaginary, and it should do so fairly soon. The report has been in the hands of the Government long enought for it to have an indication of any action that it intends to take. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. 
I seek clarification of some of the remarks made by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  During his outline of the additional items being exempted from sales tax he referred to goods which are used by the sick or persons with certain diseases and which are substantially or exclusively for the use of persons in that category. I raise the situation of the diabetics who are very large users of low sugar or non-sugar products. At one time those products were manufactured significantly for that restricted market. At this stage I think it is fair to say that they are goods which are used substantially by other sections of the community for dietary and other reasons, but this does not alter the medical requirement of persons who have a diabetic problem. I ask the Treasurer Where medical certification is involved, will the amendments cover persons in that area with regard to sugarfree or low sugar products? It would appear that, because other people use similar products for other purposes, the diabetic section of the community will be unfairly disadvantaged if those products are not included. 
-I ask the Minister for Defence: Can he give an assurance that the prices currently being quoted by potential suppliers of aircraft under consideration for the Australian tactical fighter force program represent an accurate projection of the price Australia will actually pay for the aircraft? Are modifications to meet Australian requirements included in the prices quoted? Are the quoted prices for the United States aircraft under consideration substantially below those prices set out for the United States Air Force and other Services' procurements in their 1980 forward programming budgetary arrangements? Will the companies which are putting forward prices be required by contract to meet those prices or will the Australian Government, as is usual, meet prices for US purchases on the basis of the purchase price of the US forces? 
-by leave-As a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence but not a member of the Sub-Committee on Human Rights in the Soviet Union I think it is important that the House take note of the fact that a number of dissenting reports have been published as well as the report which has just been tabled. With the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  I am a signatory to some reservations, not about the report itself but about the wisdom of the Parliament's authorising committees to conduct inquiries into matters for which the Parliament itself is not prepared to make available the necessary resources. With regard to the remarks of the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  and the contents of the report, we have made it clear that we see the report and its recommendations as being reasonably derived from the evidence which the Sub-Committee heard and reflecting accurately the evidence which was before the Sub-Committee. I make that point clear because it is possible and likely that the intent of minority reports may be misrepresented. 
Certainly, no person who believes in democratic rights and civil liberties or who feels that it is the right of an individual to practise religion, politics or such other acceptable social activities as he sees as being within his interests, thinks that those rights should be denied. They are not available in the Soviet Union. But that situation is not restricted, unfortunately, to that area. Those rights are not available to people in more than two-thirds of the countries in the world. Possibly they are genuinely available in a number of countries which would be counted on one hand. They are not fully available to people in Australia. There are persons within this continent for whom the Parliament has responsibility who lack full access to civil rights and who are treated in abominable circumstances because of laws discriminating against them. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I was speaking to the report on human rights in the Soviet Union which has been presented today. I had indicated that I do not disagree with the substance of the findings of the Committee and especially those findings which are in line with the evidence received by the Committee. As one of those members who signed one of the reservations in the report I think it is important that the record be quite straight on what those reservations are. They do not indicate that there is not a denial of human rights in the Soviet Union. They do not indicate in any way that the findings of the Committee do not reflect the evidence which was available to the Committee. I think it is unfortunate that the  Chairman  of the Sub-committee has found it necessary to make some criticism of the suggestion that the length and repetitiveness of the report detract from its quality. Apparently he has taken the view that the length of the report has some connection with the quality of the report. That is not my opinion and it is not an opinion that I think would be shared by members of this Parliament, or anybody else who is interested in such matters. The report stands on its substance and its quality and nothing else. If it is substantive and it has the necessary quality then the report is a good one. Mere length means nothing other than it is unreadable in a limited time. 
To return to the minority report which I think is one of substance and should be seriously considered by this House, it is possible for this Parliament to undertake any number of similar inquiries or any number of inquiries through committees of this House, to draw conclusions from the available evidence and to present that evidence to the Parliament. It does not mean that the report carries the weight that a report of a parliamentary committee should carry. A report on a particular matter should not reflect only what is an accepted or an accurate view. It should reflect the findings of the committee on a matter on which the Parliament itself has been able to facilitate a full inquiry. Those who are inquiring on behalf of the Parliament should be able to point to the inquiry as the basis of the substantive nature of the report so presented. My concern is that in undertaking an inquiry of the magnitude of this report into human rights in the Soviet Union no funds- I repeat, no funds- were made available for the Committee to enable it to ensure it had available to it those witnesses whom it sought in order to carry out its inquiries or inspections. Certainly, an invitation was extended to the Soviet Union to give evidence. I expected that that would be rejected and I think that in a reverse situation the same response would come from Australia. It is not the practice of major powers to come cap in hand to a nation which is carrying out an inquiry into the affairs of those powers. I do not think that anyone of intelligence in this House would expect the Soviet Union to appear before a jury in Australia to give evidence on its own affairs. 
-The Soviet Union is not obliged to appear before such an inquiry and Australia is not obliged either. If the honourable member for Denison were aware of what is going on in the world he would know that at present the United States is seeking to impose its internal laws on this country and we are rejecting that proposal. We have passed legislation to reject it. It is an independent right of any country to choose what laws it will apply to its own territory. The Soviet Union is a restrictive and repressive regime as are those regimes throughout the world which are totalitarian in character. Such regimes are not limited to the Soviet Union but many do not profess to be libertarian or democratic. Certainly, we as parliamentarians profess to represent a country in which respect for human rights and civil liberties is paramount although we do have certain blind spots of our own where we choose to ignore repression of the rights of individuals. In one instance currently a certain minority group in our community is restricted in respect of the right to vote in elections and this Parliament could correct that anomaly if it wished. 
In regard to this report and any subsequent reports of this nature, before embarking on an exercise which is of such substance and such deep importance to every person who respects civil liberties this Parliament has a responsibility to make available to the committee which it charges with that task the facilities and the necessary funds. In one section of the reservations which we have expressed- probably we have expressed them slightly inaccurately; nevertheless we were not given assistance with its preparation- it is indicated that the Committee had to depend on the good graces of persons outside this Parliament for the private collections of funds in order to meet the expenses of persons from overseas who came before the Committee to give evidence; or it depended upon the accidental presence in Australia of witnesses. The Committee had no funds available to it to call witnesses whose presence it thought would have been desirable. I am not suggesting that any witnesses were not available because of a lack of funds, but the facts are that no such funds were available. It was not possible for the Committee to carry out inspections in areas where evidence may have been available. It is a serious reflection on the Parliament itself that it would undertake an inquiry and then not make available the necessary facilities to enable the inquiry to take place. 
I would like to see a series of inquiries into civil liberties and I certainly believe that there is ample scope in both communist and noncommunist countries throughout the world, in dictatorships and other forms of repressive regimes, including Australia. Such inquiries in almost all cases would bring to the attention of the Australian people, at least temporarily, the extent to which civil liberties and the rights of people to act freely and to practise freedom as they believe in it exists throughout the world. Unfortunately, that is neither practical nor possible. Before any similar inquiries are embarked upon the Parliament has to make up its mind whether it wants such inquiries and if it does whether it is prepared to pay the cost of ensuring that the inquiry cannot be undermined by any suggestion that the resources and the capacity were not available to carry out the inquiry fully and properly. I deprecate the conditions which are exposed in this report. I believe that those responsible for them should look at their home court before they start talking about the problems which may exist in other areas. 
-I do not know whether the honourable member for Denison understood what I just said. 
-What did I just say? The honourable member for Denison does not know what I just said. I deprecate the conditions revealed in this report. I believe that those who are responsible for those conditions should look in their own backyard before they talk about the rights or civil liberties of persons outside their own backyard. The conditions exposed in this report deal with civil liberties in the Soviet Union. Those I speak of are those responsible for the denial of those civil liberties in the Soviet Union. I am surprised that the honourable member for Denison does not support what I am saying which is that they should look in their own backyard. 
-When an honourable member rises in this House and indicates that a IS per cent increase in taxation is a reduction, I think that the rest of his argument becomes irrelevant. But the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  has challenged members on this side of the House. He made a completely erroneous claim about increases in tax rates in the Hayden Budget. He cannot support that claim with facts. 

 -Mr Speaker, with your indulgence, I want to draw your attention and the attention of the House to the unsatisfactory nature of the practice of presenting to Parliament reports which are supposedly available to members of the Parliament and, through Parliament, to members of the public but which are available only from the Parliamentary Library. One report presented in that way here today is of considerable interest to a broad spectrum of the public. We would presume that presenting the report here with the advice that copies will be available from the Parliamentary Library is a means by which the Government will avoid the responsibility of printing the report. It will expect the Parliament to print the report at its expense rather than at the Government's expense. In the meantime, which could be a year, the report will not be available to the general public. 
-The Opposition welcomes the review. I point out, however, that there have been four similar reviews. Only one of them, that of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, has been debated by the Parliament at this stage. The reviews of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, the Bureau of Meteorology and the Bureau of Mineral Resources are in various stages of consideration but they certainly have not been brought to the Parliament for full debate. I hope that the results of this review will, if possible, be brought before the Parliament so that the Parliament can examine and discuss the recommendations that are made. This review is of far more significance than the others, even though they were of importance. Science technology, its availability and the competence of that area of defence are extremely important to any rational defence program, given the advances that are taking place in technology, electronics and other areas of offensive and defensive warfare. 
I draw to the attention of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  the fact that those persons who have been appointed to undertake the external review are all persons of scientific or technical background. It might be of assistance if a person with economic or marketing background were added. The Defence Force technology and science area and the terms of reference which the Minister had incorporated in  Hansard  relate to economic viability. One of the offsets of defence science has to be at least a consideration of marketing or the capacity to market the results of scientific investigation. Australia produces a very low amount of new technology in the defence areas but it has been very successful in limited areas in the past. Any restructuring or changes which take place in the science and technology areas should take into account the possibilities and probable need for some of the scientific research to be transferred into areas of economic and commercial activities where that research is of a nature which allows transferability. Some successes have been made in the past in this area but it should not be the basic criterion of defence science. 
It is also important that any review should cover the area of adequacy of the available research and scientific backup given to the Defence Force in a situation of emergency. Defence science and technology has been one of the areas which has suffered most by staff cut backs in the defence area in the last two or three years. In fact, in the last two years one-third of the civilian staff reduction has been in that area, substantially as a result of the winding down of the Woomera rocket range and the activities at Salisbury. Nevertheless, the infrastructure which the agreement and the work we did with the British provided to defence was a valuable asset. The winding down creates a vacuum which is necessary for us to fill. The Opposition does not object to the review. It hopes that we will have the opportunity to see the results. I draw attention to the fact that in my opinion it will be a broader and far more significant review than those which have already been carried out. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave-Earlier today a report was presented from the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. It dealt with changes to the Australian Capital Territory. I want to express some concern at what has occurred because of an interpretation of a clause in the Parliament Act which controls the area generally known as the Parliamentary Triangle. At the time of the passage of the Act it was intended and thought to mean that no alterations to the physical structure of the Parliamentary Triangle, as it existed at that time, could be made. The interpretation placed on the clause in the Act is that no new structures can be erected in that area. It follows that this means that changes by the withdrawal of structures, removal of physical features or natural phenomena and other alterations can be made providing nothing new is intended. This is not what the Parliament intended. 
I believe that the Parliament should not accept it as being the right of persons or planners to change the structure of that area. It is an area set aside specifically for Parliament. It should be protected and specifically dealt with by Parliament. I am aware that the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory considers these things. All alterations to the Parliamentary Triangle- whether they be removals of physical or natural things or erections- should be subject to agreement by the Parliament. I raise this matter very briefly. I ask the Government to give consideration to the present terms. If they are deficient they should be altered in order to provide that any changes of any description proposed to the Parliamentary Triangle should come before the Parliament. 
-I give notice that at the next sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to present a Bill to amend section 5 of the Parliament Act 1974 to remove deficiencies which have shown up in the powers of the Parliament over the Parliamentary Triangle. 
-I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware of the severe problems in the motor car industry caused by down-turns in the market and by surplus manufactured vehicles being available in dealers' yards. Is the Minister aware that a serious threat of retrenchments is facing wide areas of that industry? Is the Minister in a position to indicate whether the Government intends to take any action in an endeavour to stimulate that industry in order to save what could amount to several thousand employees' jobs? 
-Several years ago members of the present Opposition debated wheat Bills into the small hours of the morning. 
The 20 members of the National Country Party in turn each spent 10 minutes in speaking to the wheat Bills until 4 o'clock that morning. It is significant that not one member of the National Country Party considers that it is worth coming into the House to support this legislation. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation. I would say that it represents yet another example of the double standards which the Government has introduced into its legislative program since its return to government in 1976. 
Any member of the public- or any wheat grower for that matter- who cares to take the trouble to read the 1974 debates on the wheat stabilisation scheme, when the system of funding was changed to that which substantially is contained in this Bill, will see that this Bill further restricts access to Government funds for the wheat stabilisation fund than was the case in the 1974 Bills. Anyone who cares to read those debates and who sees what Ministers and members of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party in this House had to say about the changes that took place at that time would wonder how the same members, as Ministers, could negotiate this particular scheme, even though the member mainly concerned is not currently the Minister for Primary Industry. In fact, the scheme makes some changes to the previous arrangements, especially in the first payments area, where a formula is brought into the Act to determine the levels of first payments to growers, a level which will be fixed at an amount equivalent to 95 per cent of the estimated price and the average realised price for the previous year. This will bring about a situation where the first payments will move with the market and will be fairly directly associated with the current state of the market. In the past the first payments have remained static, on occasions over long periods. At times they have represented up to 90 per cent of the current market value of wheat, and at other times below 50 per cent of the current price of wheat. This will probably encourage more planting of wheat because, directly related to the first price, is the matter of what amounts farmers will decide to plant in any given season. 
There are other factors involved in that, and I understand that forward estimates of availability of markets for wheat would indicate that that is something that would be welcomed at this stage. Because of the question of time, and because wheat apparently now occupies a much lower place in the Government's priorities, I do not intend to take up much of the time of the House, mainly because my colleagues also wish to contribute to this debate, even if Government supporters do not wish to do so. There are some matters relating to the new scheme which have to be raised in the House and the New South Wales Government has some concern to which I should draw attention. Firstly, the various pricing arrangements would seem to indicate that there will be a higher domestic price for wheat, which will have effects in prices to consumers in Australia being higher than the current export price for wheat. This is something which is in contention between the Commonwealth and the States. The New South Wales Government is certainly of the opinion that there are some deficiencies in the Act in that area. Perhaps if a Minister enters into the debate he may care to inform the House exactly what the situation is. 
These new schemes entrench the changes which were made at the time when  Senator Wriedt  was Minister for Agriculture, changes for which he was denigrated all over the country by present Ministers of the Cabinet who are presenting this Bill, which is less favourable to growers as far as funding is concerned than the Bill brought in by the then Labor Minister. As I have indicated, the Bill displays a complete double standard on the part of members of the present Government. It is not the first piece of legislation which has come into this House which maintains a system that the present Government criticised in every form and in every way at the time it was introduced. It is not possible to predict what the major costs and the likely movements of the wheat export prices will be five years ahead. But all the available indications are that this is a no-cost scheme to the Treasury and that it would at least make the Treasurer  (Mr Howard ) smile. It is very likely that the growers ' own contributions will more than cover any drawings which may become necessary because of any deficiency which may exist in the return from the sale of wheat to meet the 95 per cent formula for first payments. The first payments aspect is the most important change in the Act, but there are a number of other changes, some of which will benefit growers, all of which will remove obligations from the Treasury and all of which are contrary to what the present Government said it would do when it was the Opposition. 
In 1974 there was a considerable attack upon the then Minister for the delays in bringing in the scheme. On this particular occasion the scheme is at least a month late in being presented to this House. Apparently the problems that we had in 1974 have beset the Government in this particular set of negotiations. But when the same thing happens, it is apparently different, as far as the present Government is concerned. The Opposition does not oppose the Bills. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 October 1 979: 
Are basic conveniences for employees, such as toilets, not being provided at all new storage facilities; if not, why not 
-This piece of legislation will bring the procedures of the Public Accounts Committee substantially into line with those of the Public Works Committee. They are two of the longer running parliamentary committees, and they are committees which have very specific powers entrusted to them by legislation. With the changes that have taken place in the Parliament and in the operations of the Parliament, it is necessary that a continuing review be undertaken of the legislative process and the process by which this Parliament monitors not only the activities of the Executive but also the changes in the general expenditures and procedures which occur from time to time in the expenditure and accounting areas of government. The Public Accounts Committee serves one of the functions with which this House is charged. 
The major function, the historic function, of the lower or representative houses of parliament has been to monitor the expenditure of the Executive. This parliamentary system derived originally from the need to curb the excesses of the monarch and give the ordinary people some say over taxation and the expenditure of public funds. We lack in this parliament a degree of support for the means by which we carry out that role, and in the 30 years during which the economic powers of the Commonwealth have been gradually centralised within this Parliament and the Executive there has been an erosion of the influence of Parliament and a transfer of responsibilities to the Executive government of the day. We have some instruments. We have attempted on occasions to seek other instruments by which we can more effectively carry out the functions of the scrutiny of government by a representative parliamentary body. Some of those functions are inadequately performed. We did have a situation where for a time the responsibilities of this House were taken over by the Senate in that it was carrying out scrutinies of government expenditure more acutely than this House. This year we have had some experimentation with Estimates committees, and I believe that there is a need to examine what occurred in that experimental form. There is also a need for this Parliament to be in a position where it continually examines its own procedures and its adopted practices, including legislation of this type. It is for the Parliament and not the Government, and that should be remembered, to determine the means by which it will undertake its responsibilities for the scrutiny of government. 
This Bill was presented by a Minister. I do not think that is a desirable practice. I believe it is desirable that where a piece of legislation has as its ultimate aim the strengthening of the Parliament's scrutiny of the Government, it should not be introduced by a member of the Executive but by a person representing the interests of the Parliament. It seems to me that the  chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee would have been the appropriate person to bring this legislation before the Parliament. Unfortunately, at this stage that is not possible or practical, but it is an area in which we should aim to achieve some independence from the Executive. It is most important for this Parliament to seek ways by which its authority can be maintained or strengthened, and to do that we have to examine our procedures very carefully. Some of our committees have a very good record in the activities with which they are charged. Others have a poor record. 
The most important factor is that the Parliament does not control the finances it may require to carry out these functions. The Estimates committees recommended that those finances should be within the control of the Parliament and not the Executive. I hope that shortly we will see an acknowledgment of that resolution of the Estimates committees and an acknowledgment of the importance of Parliament having its own funding and having control of its own funds. That would also mean some expansion of the means by which this Parliament determined how expenditures took place and how expenditures within the parliamentary system were determined. I do not believe that it is acceptable that this power should be left exclusively to the presiding officers or to the presiding officer. There needs to be some additional structure whereby members of the Parliament have an input into decisions on the expenditure of funds which are the responsibility of the Parliament and not of individuals. 
The Opposition supports these changes because they bring about a situation which improves the means by which this particular area of parliamentary scrutiny is undertaken. They strengthen to a very limited degree the role of the Parliament. But if scrutiny is to be effective and real, a great deal more has to be done. 
-The first measure before the House, the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Repeal Bill, really involves the repeal of a redundant piece of legislation which is no longer operative because of changed circumstances in the relationship between the Northern Territory and the Commonwealth. The States and Northern Territory Grants (Rural Adjustment) Bill, the second measure, includes the Northern Territory in the rural adjustment scheme on the same basis as the States. It extends to the Northern Territory benefits of the scheme which will enable rural adjustment loans to be handled by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly or the Northern Territory Government. Rural adjustment is an area which has ebbed and flowed in importance over a number of years. It is unfortunately another one of those areas in which the present Government is exercising its double standards in primary industry. This year the funds allocated for rural adjustment have been reduced by $22m. This is part of a general reduction of Government assistance to rural industries which in this year's Budget totalled the equivalent of about $ 120m. Taxation on farmers also increased by about $93m. That may be a measure of the prosperity of rural industries or it may demonstrate that the Government has a definite double standard in that what it said other people should do when it was in Opposition, it does not believe that it should accept as its responsibilities now that it is in power. A large number of Government measures introduced since 1976 contradict totally what was said by members of the then Opposition during the period 1973 to 1975. 
-It is always 'yesterday' when opportunists are caught out. They always choose to describe their opportunist statements in Opposition as things which were said at another time and in other circumstances. They certainly were said at another time and in other circumstances, when irresponsibility was the norm for the Opposition of the day which now as the Government claims it is responsible. The irresponsibility extended even to denying revenue to the then Government to expand the Commonwealth deficit in a manner which this Government now claims caused economic damage to the country. The people who were responsible for those measures sit on the Government benches but accept no blame and have no recriminations for the damage they did to this nation. Many of those who are currently unemployed and those who are suffering economic hardship in this country today should remember that it was members of the present Government who improperly and irresponsibly denied revenue to the Commonwealth Government by the use of numbers in the Senate. 
This measure is a small one. It is not one on which the country will go to the barricades. I think it is important that the House should understand that in the areas of rural financing and government financing of rural activities the practice of this Government has been to adopt measures and processes in almost every case which it criticised when in Opposition as being financially disadvantageous to rural communities. It is the practice of this Government to reduce assistance to rural communities in areas in which it initially and openly claimed that the activities of a previous government were mean and an attack on the rural communities. If any government in the history of Australia has carried out an attack on rural communities through its policies, has denuded the non-metropolitan area of Australia of economic activities, this is that Government. I indicate that the Opposition does not oppose these measures. The extension of the scheme to the Northern Territory obviously is almost a machinery process and had to take place. The repeal of the other legislation clearly became necessary once that extension occurred. I again draw the attention of the House to the fact that this Government consistently, in almost every piece of legislation which comes into this House, practises a double standard in that it does what it says others should not have done. 
E raise a matter which I have raised in the adjournment debate on a number of occasions. As the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  is present, I take the opportunity to raise directly with him a matter I have already raised in correspondence. I refer to the case of a war widow who now has an illegitimate child, and I raise the question of the rights of the child and the rights of the woman. In correspondence with the Minister for Veterans' Affairs and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  the only information I am able to obtain is that in order to receive coverage for the child under any form of benefit other than family allowances the woman would have to resign her war widow's pension. I think that that is a penalty beyond the reasonable expectations of the widow of a serviceman who died as a result of his service to this country. She could then apply for a social security pension, which would result in a similar sum of money being available to her, but with reduced rights. That is not what I consider to be the expectations of Service personnel for their dependants, given that circumstances different from the norm exist. 
I do not think it is the right of this Parliament or any government to pass moral judgments on people. It may well be that the expectation of a person receiving a war widow's pension is that that pension will cover the children and the dependants of the ex-servicemen. I do not dispute that. However, I do dispute that the war widow's pension should then be used to deny the woman social security cover for the same child. Surely it is a simple matter of natural justice that the child and the mother should be entitled to the same rights as a civilian widow with a child on a social security pension, without having to accept the penalty that she must surrender her entitlements as a war widow. That is the question I raise. It may be that the Repatriation Act is deficient, and it is certainly a fact that it is not long ago that the same child would have been denied rights under the Social Services Act. But those Acts have been changed to recognise the facts of life, to recognise that a moral judgment should not deny cover for a child or a parent in circumstances where the child exists, irrespective of the nature of its birth or its legitimacy. 
I ask the Minister to give consideration to the answer that he gave to me in correspondence and to review the existing law, which provides that unless the widow resigns her war widow's pension she can obtain no cover for the dependant child simply because of the interaction of that pension and the Social Services Act. The child is realtively young and will be in the widow's care for at least another 10 years. She is entitled to the war widow's pension because she is a war widow, and she should not be asked to surrender that pension in order to gain coverage for her child. She is denied cover for the child unless she resigns that pension, and that is a penalty based on a moral judgment. It may be an anomaly under the Act, but at this stage I have no indication that either the Minister for Veterans' Affairs or the Minister for Social Security is prepared to do anything about it. I think it is improper, and I believe that the House, and certainly Government members, should express an opinion about such a situation being allowed to continue. If the Repatriation Act is not to be permitted to cover such a child, I ask the Minister to ensure that arrangements are made so that the child is entitled to be considered for a social security pension in the normal way. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Many retired ex-servicemen will be very disappointed with the statement by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  I think it is fair to say that expectations were created that some action would be forthcoming as a result of the Bonnett inquiry. It is noted that there has been some publicity on this matter and I am sure that the Minister has received a number of inquiries in recent weeks, as have I. One of the problems with changes of schemes is that anomalies are created. In this case we have the situation in which former members of the Services- some of whom in fact paid a considerably higher percentage of their salaries than that which currently applies under the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Scheme- receive lower rates of pension because of the accident of date of retirement and not because of any differential in actual contribution. 
A member of the Services who retired in late 1972 under the Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Scheme and who joined at approximately the same time and obtained approximately the same rank as a person who retired in early 1973, now could be in receipt of pension entitlements involving a difference of up to $2,000 a year. This is because of the six months- or much less than that; even two daysdifference, on the operative date principle, in the date on which he actually left the Services. Such persons were not covered by the provisions of the original legislation and I do not think that one can deny that. The Jess report was an all-party committee report. I think the initial legislation bringing in the current retirement scheme was generally accepted on all sides of this Parliament. The then Minister for Defence and the present Minister for Defence, at that time and in office, have both given undertakings that they would review the position of persons who were virtually left out because of the dates of their retirement. I do not think it is correct to say that the differences arise from different levels of contributions. If anything, the levels of contributions prior to the introduction of the scheme were higher relative to the current salaries of the day than are the present contributions in most cases. 
The Bonnett report, which I have had the opportunity to read, was prepared after a considerable amount of pressure by back members of the present Government and, as I understand it, on an undertaking by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that the Government would examine the report sympathetically. A few weeks ago a statement was made relating to contributions paid by members of the DFRB prior to the introduction of the present scheme, and the actuary's report was that no excess payments were made in respect of payments made prior to 1972 and no refunds existed. In this instance the situation is reversed. It is probable that those persons who retired have been disadvantaged by two aspects. The first aspect is the accident of date and the increased benefit under the existing scheme. I am not sure that one can validly argue that a new retirement scheme can be applied retrospectively. That accident of date is costing retired members a considerable amount of money and is disadvantaging a section of retired members of the Defence Force. 
The other relevant factor is that prior to 1973 salary ranges within the Defence Force were at an artificially low level. They were not brought up to what should have been the reasonable expectations of members of the Defence Force, especially professional officers, until 1 973-74. In addition, the conditions of retirement of members of the Defence Force at that time were less than beneficial. They were changed in 1973-74 in a manner which enabled members to retire more easily. I know that it was the subject of criticism of the former Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  that there was an excessive number of retirements from the Defence Force. One of the reasons was that members were able to retire more easily, and that had not been the case before. This proposal is a disappointment for those members who were given an expectation by the activities of the Government and the appointment of this Committee. In the circumstances, I think it would have been better if no inquiry at all had been conducted. At least there would not have been this expectation. The Government has failed to act. It probably could have accepted some of the recommendations of the Bonnett committee without taking on board the full retrospectivity aspect. It has not done so, and that is a decision the Government has to live with. 
On the second point, I think the Opposition has to agree with the Government's position. If invalidity retirements were tax free under the Defence Force retirement scheme- I do not think we should differentiate between that scheme and a superannuation scheme because it is in fact a superannuation scheme- they would of necessity have to be tax free under all superannuation schemes. It does not take much imagination to work out what would then occur, especially in some areas where ease of retirement on grounds of ill health would quickly grow. The person who served his full period and retired on what is a retirement pension would then be in the anomalous position of paying tax on his pension, but a person who was able to retire on grounds of invalidity shortly before he was due for retirement or at an earlier stage would have tax free income for life. The difference between superannuation-type invalidity and work-caused or war-caused invalidity has to be taken into account. If a policy decision were taken by a government that any person who retired on the grounds of sickness or ill health and was entitled to some form of superannuation payment was considered to be in a tax-free position, it would be an extraordinarily costly decision. Nevertheless it would be a decision which could be applied generally. I do not think one could reasonably expect to apply such a decision generally to one scheme without applying it generally throughout the community. 
Members, and particularly older members, of the Defence Force, some in this House, will be extremely disappointed with the Government's decision. I think that the Government did create expectations which it has shown now it is unable to meet. That in itself is reprehensible to a minor degree. It is better not to lead people up the garden path than to lead them up the garden path and then tell them that the flowers are not in bloom. 
-The Government has decided to truncate the sittings of this House by a week. It has decided that the House need not sit next week. It has no business program set out for Thursday of this week, yet it is now proposing a procedure which, if the House considers its business in a proper manner and in a manner in which important legislation can be considered, will require this House to sit until 1 o 'clock or 2 o 'clock in the morning. 
Government members- Hear, hear! 
I am glad to hear honourable members opposite cheering. Quite obviously they have no idea of what is going on in their own Party, and they have no idea of what the Government is proposing. For instance, it is obvious that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would prefer not to come back to the Parliament this year. It is obvious that the Parliament is going into recess because the Government is seriously embarrassed by matters which are before the Parliament, which have been discussed in this Parliament, from which it would prefer to hide. The proposal to have the House sit early into the morning is one which should be rejected by the House. Once upon a time, after many years of struggling, the House adopted civilised sitting hours which enabled the consideration of the business of the House under conditions which were reasonable for rational decision-making and debate. This motion is designed solely to shorten the sitting period of the Parliament. In fact this is a motion of fear by the Government because it is frightened of Parliament - 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
I take a point of order.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you did not read the motion from the chair, therefore the motion is out of order. 
-I move: 
That the ruling be dissented from. 
asked the Minister for Defence,  upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
Does the Industrial Instruction (Department of Defence), issued on 14 September 1979, set guidelines issued by the Public Service Board for consultation with respect to the introduction of technological change. 
Is the instruction still operative; if so, why has his Department refused to comply with the instruction with respect to changes outlined in his statement concerning Army supply warehousing. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
What avenues exist for employees or their representatives to have his Department comply with the directive that discussion take place before programs of technological change are embarked upon. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 9 October 1979: 
Are any Defence personnel housed in official accomodation which does not have such basic facilities as (a) toilets and (b) showers under the same roof as sleeping areas. 
If so, what are the locations and the rninimum temperatures expected at each location. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
What is the Government's estimated price for the: 
F18; 
F16;and 
Mirage 2000 aircraft. 
-The Government's decision to reduce the number of aircraft currently under consideration to fill the tactical fighter force role has been anticipated for some considerable time, and the speech by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  would indicate that it has been accompanied by some significant trauma within the Government. However, given the lead-up and the general approach to the program, and the obvious preference for American equipment expressed last year by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  and expressed very strongly within the Defence organisations and, to a lesser extent, the defence forces, it was to be expected that the Government would bring down this type of decision. I am not as confident as the Minister that the decision is one which necessarily will fit our future needs. It certainly eliminates from the competition the French contender, the Mirage 2000, which on most of the evidence has a lower rate of performance. Nevertheless, it has a fairly advanced technological and military capacity and would have assisted in the involvement of the Australian aircraft industry on a long term basis. 
If we compare the Minister's statement on McDonnell Douglas and the F/A- 18 with statements published in the last few days, we find that some of the offsets currently being offered in the area, which are for such things as the development of solar power units, may be necessary because of the company's internal legal problems in the United States of America. However, they would prevent any input by or basic advantage for defence-oriented industries in Australia and for the general aircraft industry in this country. There are problems associated with each of the aircraft. Those of the Mirage apparently result in disqualification; those of the other aircraft can or may be solved over the period of further assessment or during the life of the aircraft. I can only assume that the inclusion of the F-16 in the final two choices is on the basis of price and levels of performance. The F-16 is designed for a specific narrow role within the total United States air defence network. It does not in its present form meet requirements of the Australian Defence Force, nor will it do so unless it is modified significantly to give it greater all-weather capacity. The aircraft is constructed as a lightweight aircraft and is not for heavy duty usage. It may have a shorter life cycle than would be required by Australia, where different purpose aircraft cannot be contemplated to perform individual roles and a single aircraft must carry out tasks for which it was not necessarily designed and for which it may not be suited. 
I raise one other matter with regard to the F-16 aircraft, and I do not wish to suggest that the best technical evaluation is that of a politician; it is the evaluation of those people who are qualified to make it. I refer to the life cycle of the aircraft. It is currently entering service and will have had its first up-date as a production model before we expect deliveries of the first aircraft in the initial order, which I understand will be of the order of 25 aircraft. It will be four to five years old as a production aircraft, and the span of its likely operation as an aircraft within the Australian Defence Force before obsolescence takes over, will be reduced by at least that period. If that aircraft comes into service, it is likely that we will not attain the full quota in the order, which I understand is based on the eventual purchase of 75 aircraft. Obsolescence may well take over before the third purchase takes place. It should be remembered that at the same time as second orders are being considered, we will be required to look seriously at other areas of the Defence Force, where obsolescence will be a major problem by the end of the 1980s and about which announcements have not been made, even on projected collective costing, by the Minister or the Department of Defence. All of the major surface units of the Navy are due to go out of service by the end of the 1980s or the early 1990s. Replacements can be anticipated to cost between $2,000m and $3,000m at current costs. If the minimum price of $ 1,500m for the current TFF program is added to that and a forshortened life of an aircraft already in production, which I think is a practical consideration, we could be in a situation at that time of having to look at new aircraft to replace what will have become a technically obsolescent aircraft. The F-16 is not one of the new generation fighters. 
The F- 1 8 has a different set of problems. Quite clearly, of the aircraft concerned, if no other considerations were involved, the performance, capacity, size and general compatibility of the F- 1 8 with the Australian scene would make it the contender to be first looked at in a number of respects. It has one disadvantage for Australia and some technical considerations which the Minister's statement does not point up but which nevertheless must be of concern. I am glad that the Minister has already said that, if those technical problems do become a matter of substance, they will be reconsidered. 
Firstly, the aircraft is basically designed in the McDonnell-Douglas form as a carrier aircraft. It is a naval aircraft with excessive strengthening for a land-based aircraft because of the strains which are placed on naval aircraft but are not necessarily apparent in a land-based aircraft. I understand that an Australian program would involve a replacement undercarriage and other modifications to lighten the aircraft if it becomes necessary. 
The other disadvantage is one which Australia, unfortunately, has to live with daily in the defence area. I am sure that the Minister understands this better than I do. That disadvantage is price. The current price on the basis of the 1980 United States financial-year budgeting is $ 17.4m an aircraft. I understand that we are being offered the aircraft at a lower price than that but I understand that our purchasing arrangements with the United States are that we purchase aircraft through the United States defence network at the cost paid by the United States. Therefore, the relevant price is that price which the United States Defense Department is required to pay. I am not in a position to sayand the statement does not indicate in respect of either of the aircraft on the final list-whether we will be required to pay further development costs for modifications to the aircraft and especially the F-18 in respect of its weight, landing gear and other alterations to bring it into line with a land-based aircraft. I do not know whether we will be required to pay the development costs or whether they will be absorbed into the total United States program. It would be my expectation that, if the modifications are for Australia and for Australian purposes, Australia would be expected to pay. That is a price equation which will have to be taken into consideration when we are looking at the total cost. 
At this stage, it is not possible for any group of honourable members or individual members of this Parliament to determine the validity of the decision. We can only indicate that we have to place our trust in those people who advise the Minister and the Cabinet that they have made a decision which is in the best interests of the Australian Defence Force in the future. Time will tell. There are problems because this is an area in which alternatives no longer exist. Australia will be negotiating solely with the United States. 
Earlier I mentioned the problem which concerns me of the tendency in this country to consider only United States equipment because of availability of spare parts and the capacity to plug into the defence stores and replacement networks. But it may well have been of value if the hard decision could have been taken on an alternative aircraft which would have given us added bargaining power and made for a very high degree of competition for Australian inputs into aircraft manufacture and production. I am not sure whether the Australian aircraft industry is getting the best deal. In respect of one aircraft which already is in production, I am concerned about the doubtful validity of its time-span. In respect of the other aircraft, it has an all-up weight well above the others and has two engines- and the Minister has not mentioned the costs. According to the figures that I have, it is currently about 30 per cent dearer than either of the other aircraft and it is likely to be even more expensive. 
I am not making a choice. It may well be that Australia, because of costs and defence capital equipment budget commitments in the next 10 to 12 years, could end up with a very good aircraft but an inadequate number of those aircraft to meet the realistic defence needs. It may be that because Australia is now locked into the situation it is purchasing aircraft purely because they are cheap. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1 979: 
Will he bring up to date the information supplied in his answer to Question No. 894  (Hansard,  2 June 1977, page 2590), regarding foreign vessel movements in the Indian Ocean. 

 -Mr Speaker- 

Motion ( by  Mr  Fife) put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -The Hansard record will show that leave to proceed on that day was not, in fact, granted. As that was the substance of a disagreement with the  Chair later in  the day it is a matter of some substance now because, if leave had been granted, the Chair would not have been - 
-This report covers one of the important areas of government responsibility, especially in the area of defence. It has come before this Parliament not without considerable difficulties and some traumas. Firstly, this sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is seriously understaffed in view of the type of task it is required to carry out and the level and quality of reports it should be expected to produce on behalf of the Parliament. The people who have worked for the sub-committee have done more than should be required of such persons on behalf of the Parliament. Certainly the Parliament should examine seriously at some stage whether it wants such reports and, if it does as I indicated on another occasion when speaking on another report, it has to accept the responsibility of providing the necessary resources and finance. It is unfortunate that this House has decided that a separate committee on defence is not warranted, as I consider this subject is of sufficient importance to warrant such a committee. 
The last two major reports of this subcommitteethe first on Australian defence industry and this one on Australian defence procurement- have examined two of the most difficult and important areas of government responsibility both nationally and internationally. The sums of money involved in procurement, the difficulties faced by the Parliament, which appropriates the sums of money included and the methods by which procurement becomes the private operation of a few individuals are subjects which should consistently and continually be examined by this House. During the period covered by this report a number of shortcomings, if not deficiencies, within the procurement system were exposed. Some of the deficiencies were minor, some were major. One thing which is highlighted is that one or two individuals in the employment of the Government have suffered very materially because they gave evidence honestly to the Committee about faults in the system- whether accurate or otherwise- which they believed to be correct. I think they have been treated very badly by the Department concerned and by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  who is responsible for that Department. He took the opportunity on one occasion in this House to make remarks about witnesses which were not warranted in any other way than as political justification. 
If there is to be an honest examination of procedures, if the procurement of defence equipment in Australia is to proceed on a basis which is above any form of criticism and which is to the advantage not only of the Australian Defence Force but also of the Australian nation, continuing examination of procedures and of the results and decision-making processes is necessary by this Parliament. This report marks the commencement of the examination of a problem. The report really should be repeated in the next Parliament by a full committee of this House, with adequate staffing and facilities, to see whether some of the problems raised during the hearing have been dealt with. If they have not, the failure to deal with them should be highlighted in every possible way. 
May I mention one or two practices that are a problem. Overseas tenderers for Australian equipment in many instances have substantial commercial advantages over Australian-based firms. Firstly, they are able to negotiate on the basis of estimate prices and not the actual price. Quite often they have the advantage of commercial assistance for their operations at government level which is not available to Australian firms. They are subject to different contractual arrangements which are beneficial to the overseas firms. In many cases, the actual specifications for the goods required are written in a form which denies more than one company the opportunity to tender. There was one instance in evidence where for five years an Australian firm had been seeking an alteration to the specifications for the provision of goods which are costing this Government $150,000 a year more than they would cost to buy from the Australian firm, but the Australian firm cannot tender. There are also cases of brand name tenders, which makes a farce to the tender system. 
I would like to say much more, but I will refer to only one thing which I think the  chairman  of the sub-committee did not mention. I will conclude on this note. I thank not only those people who worked on the sub-committee but also the Parliamentary Librarian for making arrangements for Gary Brown to be made available to the sub-committee. Without him we would have been in grave difficulties because of the total lack of staff available. Two officers are not enough for such a job, and anyone who suggests that it is sufficient is a fool. I also thank the  chairman  for the manner in which he conducted the inquiry. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 16 November 1979: 
1 ) Will additional hen quotas be made available in the Australian Capital Territory; if so, when. 
What method will be used to determine the allocations of additional quotas. 
Will public tenders be called for the additional quotas. 
What action does he propose to take in order to make sure that a monopoly situation is not created in the ACT. Will the Government take action to limit the hen quotas available to any single farmer or group of farmers. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 11 September 1979: 
1 ) How many persons have been refused (a) entry into Australia as permanent residents on security grounds (b) Australian citizenship on security grounds in each of the last 10 years. 
How many persons have subsequently been allowed (a) permanent entry and (b) citizenship. 
Has the change in any individual case resulted in a breach of or threat to Australian security. 
What procedures exist for persons disadvantaged by security reports to test the factual basis of such reports. 
What procedures exist for the factual basis of the reports to be evaluated by his Department. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
1 ) Has he been approached with a request for assistance to members of the original crew for attendance at a signing-off ceremony of HMAS  Diamantina. 
2 ) Is any ceremony proposed. 
If a ceremony is to take place will merr' original crew be invited; if so, under what conditio 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 13 November 1979: 
1 ) Did he advise  Senator Button  in answer to Senate Question No. 1560 (Senate  Hansard,  8 June 1979, page 30 14) that statistics of drug and alcohol addiction in the Defence Forces are not maintained. 
Were official statistics actually provided to a journalist for an article in  Playboy  Magazine on 2 1 September 1979; if so, was the answer given to the Senate correct. 
Is it a fact that the statistics were prepared for the answer to a Parliamentary Question but not included in the answer to the Senator? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 20 November 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that official defence records indicate that 12 per cent of members of the Defence Force have a serious alcohol problem. 
Were figures to support this provided to the media by his Department or officers of the Defence Force. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: 
1 ) Did he authorise a private briefing on Defence Force drug abuse for a reporter of  Playboy  magazine. 
Were (a) A. V. M. Morgan, (b) W. C. Parker, (c) W. C. White, (d) Brigadier Hooper, (e) Brigadier Ewing, (f) Captain Gibbs, (g) Commodore Johnstone and (h) Colonel Duke detailed to provide the briefing. 
Were other representatives of the media advised or invited to be present. 
Was a record of the briefing taken and kept, if so, will he make it available to the Parliament. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 20 November 1979: (Question No. 5136) 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 20 November 1 979: 
1 ) Have gunsights for Australia's Leopard tanks been found not to meet Australian Army requirements. 
Are infra-red gunsights highly vulnerable to anti-tank weapons. 
Did the Australian Defence Science and Technology Division provide advice on the form of gunsights needed. 
Was the Army Armour Command consulted on gunsight requirements; if so, were infra-red sights recommended. 
