My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. I preface my question by referring to an interview with the Treasurer which was published in the 'Sydney Morn ing Herald' on 3rd April 1971 in which he is reported to have said: 
The Arbitration system has sanctions on both sides. If you take away one form of sanctions, then the argument would bc that the others, against employers, would have to go too. 
In the light of this statement of the Government's attitude that the industrial law should be enforced impartially against unions and employers, is the Minister in favour of the imposition of sanctions, including fines, on the employers who are at present imposing a lockout on miners at Broken Hill? 
My  question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the evidence of continuing inflation provided by the consumer price index figures for the March quarter and of the Prime Minister's failure to enunciate any policies to cope with the problem, does the Minister agree that we are entitled to assume either that the Prime Minister intends to inflate his way through an early election or that his reputation as a Treasurer was grossly inflated? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAll T can say to the honourable senator in relation to the political side of his question - it is clearly political - is that if the Prime Minister chooses to have an early election the consequences for the Labor Party will be disastrous, particularly against the background of the situation today when the Labor Party no longer has the control of the great trade union movement which has been the backbone of its political life for the last 50 years. 
The Australian Labor Party opposes this Bill because it is hypocritical, unnecessary and dangerously vague in many of its terms. It is hypocritical because it was. introduced into this chamber as a libertarian measure designed, in the words of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  to mitigate the severity of existing laws and to draw a clear, and sensible line between freedom and order, whereas its true purpose is to impose additional restrictions on the right to dissent and at the same time to give the Government yet another opportunity to ham its favourite role of defender of the citizenry against the forces of anarchy. The Government cannot sell this Bill by pointing to its superiority over archaic statutory and common law penalties for riot, rout and unlawful assembly Certainly these archaic laws are long overdue to. be scrapped and the last clause of this Bill, clause 25, is to be applauded for doing just that. But this provides no justification for the introduction of new offences and new penalties into a field already cluttered with restrictions on human freedom. 
The Bill fails lamentably to achieve the synthesis of freedom and order which the Minister claimed for it. This is no easy task, but I believe that the Government's obsession with order has outweighed completely its concern for freedom. The Minister and all Government supporters in the other place who spoke, on this Bill have genuflected piously before the citizen's right to dissent and to express that dissent, by the process of peaceful assembly. But if the Government sincerely held this view it would have directed its attention to one of the most glaring gaps in our legal structure - namely, the absence of any constitutional guarantee of the right of freedom of speech of peaceful assembly. This gap has been referred to already by  Senator Wheeldon  who cited the American Bill of Rights as an example df a positive' charter for dissenters. It. is always assumed that we have these rights, but the fact is that there is no law and ho constitutional guarantee that we have a right of freedom of speech and a peaceful assembly. An eminent judge of the Supreme- Court of New South Wales,  Mr Justice  Hope, has put this matter in its true light.  His  Honor has written: 
When one looks at the law iri Australia in relation to the right of public assembly, and I have taken- the law in New South Wales - as a sample because it is best known to me, it seems to be, in. form, restrictive to an intolerable degree. What should be a right turns out to be entirely dependent upon the uncontrolled and unreviewable discretion of some official or other, the exercise of the discretion often being based on a selection of causes as being good or bad. 

 Mr Justice Hope also referred to numerous statutory provisions and regulations which fetter or restrict the right in a ' variety of ways. Obstruction, of traffic, vehicular of pedestrian, is prohibited by a great number of statutes and regulations. It is almost inevitable that public meetings or demonstrations will cause such obstruction and, when they do, no matter what the purpose of the meeting or demonstration and no matter how the demonstrators conduct themselves, this in itself constitutes an offence and the participants may be arrested by the police.. Surely nobody in this chamber sincerely doubts that the police use this power selectively. We do not hear of people being arrested for blocking the streets during a visit by the Pope or the Queen or while disporting themselves at some of our regional mardi gras such as the Moomba festival or the Waratah festival, while the drunken excesses of Anzac Day are evidently sanctified by patriotism: But it is quite different when the public demonstration is disapproved of by the police, goaded on by their own prejudices or inflamed by the media or sooled on by some politician who is looking for an electoral law and order issue, such as  Mr Askin  was doing at the time of the last Moratorium demonstration. 
The law as it exists already, without any additional enactments by this Parliament, is heavily weighted against demonstrators. I suspect that many members of the Government parties believe that this is as it should be. If they do believe in the right to dissent, they believe it should be exercised in a tame, discreet and almost invisible way which ignores the very meaning of the word 'demonstration', the purpose pf which is to draw the attention of as many people as possible to the viewpoint of the demonstrators. I am confirmed in this view of the way honourable senators opposite regard the - right to demonstrate by a remark that was made by one of the speakers of the Government in the other place when he pointed, as an example of an acceptable demonstration, to the Quakers who sometimes demonstrate outside this House. Surely this merely proves my point because I would make bold to claim that not many members of Parliament, let alone the public at large, even know that the Quakers are there. 
I find it ironical that so many people who deplore apathy are appalled by commitment. The fact that people, especially the young, feel strongly enough about public issues to want to proclaim their opinions publicly in the streets is something which should be applauded by those who care for the health of democracy, not whittled down further as is proposed by this Bill. To seek to make the lot of the demonstrator more difficult and to call that exercise 'striking a balance between freedom and order', as the Minister put it, is in my view hypocritical in the ' extreme. This Bill reflects all the distaste which is felt by the old, the smug and the cynical for the young, the idealistic and the non-conformist. A true synthesis of law and order would require that the emphasis in this Bill should be the other way; that is, in the direction of spelling out specific rights of dissent and public assembly. 
It is interesting to note,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that when the Common wealth Crimes Act was first framed some 37 years ago an attempt was made to spell out, admittedly in too vague and unspecific a way, the citizen's right to dissent. Tha original Act was passed in 1914, when, as honourable senators will recall, this country was in a state of war. Section 24a (2.) of that Act contained these words: . 
It shall be lawful for any person - 
to endeavour in good faith to show that the Sovereign has been mistaken in any ot his counsels; 
to point out in good faith errors or defects in the Government or Constitution of tha United Kingdom or of any of the King's Dominions or of the Commonwealth as by law established, or in legislation, or in tha administration of justice, with a view to the reformation of such errors or defects; 
to excite in good faith His Majesty's sub*jects to attempt to procure by lawful means the alteration of any matter in th» Commonwealth as by law established; or 
to point out in good faith in order to their removal any matters which are producingor have a tendency to produce feelings of ill-will and hostility between different classes of His  M  Majesty's subjects. 
It should be clear that we have gone backwards since then because when the Crimes Act .was amended in 1960 the section I just read was omitted from the Act and was replaced by the present section 24p which, in place of the permissive words 'itshall be lawful for any person' to do tha things I enumerated, contains the exclusive words 'Nothing in the preceding provisions of this Part makes it unlawful for a person' to do much the same sort of things. 
This is not a mere technical distinction.' The Act, as originally framed, spelt out positive rights, not adequately, not as wa would like them spelt out, but at least in a' way which indicates that the legislature of 1914, when this country was in a state of war, had a more libertarian approach to civil rights than this Government had in 1960, when the Act was amended, when we were in a state of peace, or has in 1971 when we are still, technically at least, not at war. I would remind honourable senators that we are not formally, technically at war in Vietnam. The Act as it stands at present merely states that certain actions are not crimes merely because of certain preceding provisions in the Crimes Act. But in the absence of positive safeguards of liberty, this does not prevent the Parliament from making these actions crimes in a subsequent provision in the Crimes Act or in another Act, such as the one for which we now have a Bill before us. In the light of this history it can hardly be claimed that freedom in this country is marching forward with giant strides. 
It should not be beyond the wit of man to . frame laws stating positively the rights pf freedom of expression.  His  Honor,  Mr Justice  Hope, who I quoted previously, suggested, for example, that there should be a positive right to distribute leaflets and a positive right of public assembly, with the onus placed on the police to . justify in a court of law any prohibition or limitation of this right. I repeat: It is a nice exercise in hypocrisy for the Minister to claim that this Bill draws a clear and sensible line between freedom and order. It leaves freedom in its present legal straitjacket in fact it has tightened it up a little; it -will not strengthen order because bad legislation does not have that effect. 
In addition, this Bill. is. totally unnecessary. Has the Government produced any evidence that offences against public order are going unpunished because of the inadequacy of existing laws? Let us look at the Bill a little more closely. Part II of. the. Bill is designed to deal with assemblies involving violence or the apprehension of violence in a Commonwealth territory or on Commonwealth premises. It is suggested that the existing law is silent or inadequate on these subjects? What breaches of public order have occurred in the Australian Capital Territory which the Police. Offences Ordinance or the Crimes Act have been inadequate to deal with? What offences have occurred on Commonwealth premises outside the Territory which the Crimes Act or the State laws have been unable to cope with? The previous  speaker  referred to the doubt which had been cast by a High Court decision early last year on the applicability of State laws to Commonwealth premises. But honourable senators will recall that this doubt was removed by the passage in this Parliament last November of the Commonwealth Places (Application of Laws) Act. The State police have more power than they need to cope with any disturbance of the peace on or in the vicinity of Commonwealth premises outside Commonwealth territory. 
In his second reading speech there was only one aspect of the existing law which the Minister named specifically as being inadequate, and this also was referred to by the previous  speaker.  The Minister claimed that the law presently available to deal with persons taking part in sit-in demonstrations in Commonwealth premises is inadequate to control this sort of behaviour. This is simply not true. The law of trespass is available, as well as all the dragnet provisions under the State laws, covering offensive behaviour, disorderly conduct and so on, which the police know only too well how to use. There are also specific offences under the Crimes Act which could be called in aid in certain circumstances. Without going into any detail I would merely draw the attention of honourable' senators to sections 29, 30K and 89 of the Crimes Act; As far as the Australian Capital Territory is concerned, there is, of course, ample, power to deal with- sit-ins in section 24B- of the Police Offences Ordinance. 
Part III of the Bill contains provisions for the protection of diplomatic and consular premises and personnel:' Let there be no doubt that the Opposition fully supports the traditional sacrosanctity of diplomatic persons and places. But here again this, Bill is totally , unnecessary. . In his second reading speech, the. Minister mentioned Australia's obligations under the Vienna Convention of 1961 , on diplomatic relations. As was pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in the debate on this Bill in the other House, this Convention was ratified by this Parliament in 1967 and the text of the Convention appears in the Schedule to the Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities Act 1967. In the debate on that Bill in 1967 not one Government supporter suggested that any legislation was necessary- to ' protect diplomatic missions. 
What has happened since to make the present legislation necessary? There have been attacks on diplomatic missions and consular posts in Australia and arrests have been made and charges preferred in respect of some of those, attacks. In his speech the Minister gave ito instances tending to show that the existing laws are not adequate for the protection of missions in this country. The provisions in Part III of the Bill are just' so much legal surplusage. But because they are unnecessary it does not follow that they are harmless and that we should not worry about them, for terms are smuggled into these clauses which, though quite unnecessary for the protection of diplomatic personnel, can be construed by a court in such a way as to impose intolerable burdens on Australian citizens expressing their disapproval or abhorrence of the policies of foreign governments. 
 I do not wish to anticipate the detailed discussion of this Bill in. the Committee stage, but i would like to. refer briefly to some of the dangerously vague terms that the Bill seeks lo. import into our laws. For' example,, clause 18 makes it an offence, to behave iri an 'insulting' way to a protected person; that is, diplomats, consuls, etc. What is insulting? Almost anything could be called insulting. For example, someone might take the view that the Soviet Union's treatment of lews is similar to the treatment meted eat by the Nazis and might give a Nazi salute, to a visiting. Soviet diplomat. Shook! such conduct place him at risk of a  $230  fine or 3 months in gaol? ' 
One of the more far-fetched observations of the Minister is. that this' Bill provides 'objective criteria' for determining' whether an offence has been committed. In fact, the Bill is studded with terms so vague as to make its construction by a court almost a game of chance. A 'reason-, able' apprehension of violence' by a sergeant of police who may, according to his conditioning, regard any youth without a short up the back and sides' haircut as a menace to society is not my idea of an objective criterion. On last Moratorium Day in Sydney I saw police practising brutal, unprovoked aggression on peaceful demonstrators and even on people, who were not taking part in the demonstration but who merely became caught up in it. This, in fact, happened to one of my family. Doubtless the police would justify their actions on the ground that these people were creating 'unreasonable obstruction', which is a term enshrined in clause 9 of this Bill. 
The word 'vicinity'- crops up. in several clauses dealing, with protected persons - that is, consuls, diplomats, etc- and pro tected premises. How far one has to be from a place or a person to be 'in the vicinity' is anybody's guess. On my reading of clause  5,  if an anti-apartheid meeting were being held in Moore Park, Sydney, while the South African Consul-General was watching his countrymen play cricket at the Sydney Cricket Ground, that meeting could fall within the provisions of the Bill. There is also a curiously vague use of the term 'person' in clauses  8  and  17. .  These clauses make it lawful for 'a person* to use what he believes to be reasonable force to disperse an assembly after a sergeant of police has issued a direction to disperse. Note carefully that it is 'a per« son', .not a law enforcement officer, who is. given this right. The members of the local, Nazi party who took it upon themselves to attempt to disperse anti-apartheid demonstrators at the Mascot Airport recently' undoubtedly would applaud these clauses' of the Bill, under which their thuggery could be legalised. I. have pointed to these vague and imprecise terms in the . Bill . to rebut the Minister's claim that the Bill clearly and sensibly', to use his words." draws the line between freedom and order. These terms are not clear, and they are therefore not sensible. 
Finally, I should like to make it plain that I am not advocating that violent demonstrations should be tolerated by the community. The right that I am upholding is the right of peaceful assembly. It can be taken for granted that in a period of rapidly* changing values such as the present one there will be no shortage of public assem'blies and demonstrations which will arouse conflicting reactions and emotions in our citizens according to their moral and political positions on the issues of the day. Whether these demonstrations will be peaceful or violent will depend, above all, on the wisdom and clarity of our laws. As I have pointed out, our laws on public assembly and demonstration are already too wide and too vague. There are already too many such laws. Public order is not enhanced by creating new offences where there are already too many offences. The task of law enforcement officers - an onerous one in any circumstances - is notmade easier by importing the vague terminology which I have instanced. - I believe that the real threat to law and order comes from intolerant over-reaction by traditionalists and defenders of the status quo rather than from dissenters, even wrong-headed dissenters, who wish to speed up the process of change. Tolerant laws, including positive statements of the right of peaceful assembly protected by the law, in my view will do more to prevent violence than will Bills such as the one we are considering. Even the Minister and the previous  speaker, Senator Hannan,  conceded that matters had not got out of hand and that there was no need for the enactment of repressive measures. This admission surely prompts the question: Why do we need this Bill? The clear answer is that we do not need it at all. It should be rejected by the Senate. 
J present  the  following petition: 
To the honourable The  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established . serious deficiencies in education. ,r 
That these can be summarised as lack, of classroom accommodation- desperate teacher shortage, oversized  classes 'and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional'  sum of  one thousand million dollars is required over the next five yean by the States -for these needs. (ti) That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
Thai the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance' Act' 1970 should be amended to include all , the .country's physically and mentally handicapped children. Your petitioners most humbly 'pray that the Senate .in Parliament assembled  will take immediate steps to- . 
Ensure that emergency finance .from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public: education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children.. And your petitioners, as .in duly, bound, will ever pray.' 
Petition .received. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation been drawn to a statement made yesterday in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly by  Mr Bannon,  the member for Rockdale, to the effect that, the curfew at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport is being constantly broken 'with the connivance of the Minister for Civil Aviation'? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether this statement is true? 
The level of this debate has been severely debased by the last few speakers. I include among those the last  speaker,  the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood).  I would like especially to comment on the hit-run intervention in this debate by  Senator Sim  which was designed to show that  Senator Wheeldon  had, in some way, supported violence in what he had said.  Senator Sim  interjected during  Senator Wheeldon's  speech and suggested that he could find in  Senator Wheeldon's  speech on the second reading some support for this outrageous suggestion. I forget the honourable senator's exact words but the purport of his interjection was that  Senator Wheeldon  had not opposed and had, in fact, condoned the use of violence. 
Will you tell us what you said, Senator? 
I shall accept  Senator Sim's  modified version of what he claims against  Senator Wheeldon  which is that  Senator Wheeldon  does not support the right to oppose violence. Is that what you said, Senator? 
1 should like to seek some elaboration from the Minister of the definition of 'unreasonable obstruction'. We were told in the second reading speech that one of the purposes of this definition was to draw a balance between freedom and order. It is clear from a reading of this definition that the draftsman was confronted with the problem of reconciling two competing rights. The definition states:  unreasonable obstruction' means an act or thing done by a person that constitutes, or contributes to, an obstruction of. or interference wilh, the exercise or enjoyment by other persons of their lawful rights or privileges (including the rights of passage along the public streets) where, having regard to all the circumstances of the obstruction or the interference, including its place, time, duration and nature, it constitutes an unreasonable obstruction or interference, and 'unreasonably obstructs' has a corresponding meaning. 
The paramount right which is stressed in this definition is the right of persons to pass along the public streets. But there is another right, and if we are to believe that the Government is sincere in its desire to strike a balance between freedom and order, one would have thought that some reference could be made to that right at the outset of this definition. The right to which I am referring, of course, is the right to peaceful demonstration. 
I refer to a situation in which a policeman is interpreting his brief on the spot in the heat of the moment, without regard to any niceties and with or without prejudice. Honourable senators will recall that  Senator Little  took me to task for suggesting that policemen had such things as prejudices, but I stick to my guns and maintain that this is something which has to be taken into account. The fact is that policemen sometimes have prejudices. In that situation, the policeman interpreting his brief on the spot, without having anything more in this definition, would be entitled to regard the rights of people proceeding along the street as being so paramount that the rights of peaceful demonstration would run a very poor second. When it came to the task of a magistrate construing this clause and weighing the evidence which might be adduced by the policeman who had been on the spot, it would be reasonable to expect that much more weight would be given to the question of whether people walking along the street had had their rights interfered with in any way. This definition completely misses out in achieving the balance which the Government claims that it set out to achieve. 
I ask the Minister whether he would be prepared to consider the insertion in the definition of words which would go some of the way towards redressing the balance which is sought. For example, I suggest that after the words 'having regard to all the circumstances of the obstruction or interference, including its place, time, duration and nature', words something like these could be inserted: 'and including a proper consideration of the right and enjoyment of persons to peaceful assembly and peaceful protest, the public communication of ideas and social comment, and a proper balancing of the interests they represent.' I do not suggest that those words are framed with any nicety or that necessarily they are the best words, but I suggest that if that idea were injected into the definition the proclaimed intent of this Bill would come somewhat nearer to fulfilment. I suggest also that policemen carrying out their task on the spot and magistrates called upon later to decide between competing interests would get far greater guidance from a definition such as that. 
 I suggest that the full implications of this clause can be appreciated only if it is considered alongside clauses 21 and 17. Clause 21, which is an evidentiary clause, states: 
In proceedings arising out of this Part, evidence that persons taking part in an assembly were at a place in the vicinity of protected premises, or were at a place at which, or in the vicinity of which, a protected person was present, is evidence that those persons were at that place by reason of the fact that it was in the vicinity of the protected premises, or by reason of the fact that the protected person was present at or in the vicinity of that place, as the case may be. 
I suggest that, reading clauses 5 and 21 together, this effect ensues: My mere presence at a place which is in the vicinity of a protected place or person is evidence that I was taking part in an assembly in relation to protected places or persons, or at least I would carry the onus of proving that I was not taking part in the assembly. 
Then, under clause 17, if persons other than myself conduct themselves in a way that gives a sergeant of police reasonable apprehension of violence, etc., I can become involved in the illegality of the assembly. Let me give an example. The Yugoslav Consulate-General is situated in Knox Street, Double Bay, which is a busy shopping centre. If I went to Knox Street, Double Bay, to buy a shirt and I happened to be caught up in a gathering outside that Consulate-General, under these clauses I could be deemed to be taking part in an illegal assembly in relation to that protected place or to any protected persons who happened to be in it. I should like the Minister to explain whether the Bill contains any safeguards which would prevent that effect from being achieved by the combined operation of clauses 5, 21 and 17. 
 Dealing first with the example mentioned by  Senator Rae,  one might be excused for believing that he does not live in the real world if he imagines that that is what happens at demonstrations - that somebody who happens to be mixed up in a turbulent throng, innocently, in the way that I postulated, is usually approached by a nice polite policeman who says: 'Excuse me, sir, are you or are you not taking part in this unlawful assembly?', and waits politely for an answer; and, when he is assured that the person is innocent, then requests him to assist him in maintaining the peace. It is within my own knowledge that things are quite different from that out there in the real world. 1 shall cite an example which goes to show that things are not quite like that out in the streets. A member of my own family had ceased work at a time corresponding with the passage of some demonstrators passed her work place during the last moratorium campaign. She crossed the road and was on the footpath and was in almost exactly the same situation as I was postulating earlier. A policeman approached her and told her very rudely to move on. She said to him, in the way that I suppose  Senator Rae  suggests I should say to his imaginery policeman: 'But I am just on my way home.'  His  response to that was to push her into the gutter. I think we have to concern ourselves with the realities of what happens in demonstrations. 
I pass from that to what  Senator Greenwood  said. In effect he said that if one happens to get caught up in the situation which I suggested could happen one is merely put into the position in which, under the Bill, one will be given an opportunity to prove one's innocence. I do not think that is a measure about which either  Senator Greenwood  or  Senator Rae,  as lawyers, should congratulate themselves. The position is that a man who happens to be in the vicinity of a certain place or a certain person at a certain time - and without any of the ideal policeman of fantasyland about which  Senator Rae  seems to know - could find himself in court and subjected to the task of proving that he was there innocently. If Government supporters feel proud of this measure, I am afraid they have a different notion of law and order from mine. 
We of the Australian Labor Party find clause 8 objectionable in various ways. I do not wish to reiterate what has been said at some length on our objection to reasonable apprehension of violence. I think honourable senators on both sides of the chamber will agree that that is an aspect of the Bill which has been fairly adequately canvassed. However, we submit that there is one word especially in this clause which is highly objectionable, and that is the word 'person' which occurs in sub-clause (4.) (b). The clause states that where there is an assembly of not less than 12 persons and persons in that assembly have acted in a way which leads a sergeant of police reasonably to apprehend that violence will occur or that some damage will be done, the sergeant of police may then perform what is equivalent to reading the Riot Act, and it is then incumbent upon those assembled to disperse. At the expiration of a certain rime  -  15 minutes - if those persons have not dispersed it is then lawful for a person to use such force as he believes ob reasonable grounds to be necessary for that purpose and is reasonably proportionate to the danger which he believes, on reasonable grounds, is to be apprehended from the continuance of the assembly. It appeared from the earlier debate that  Senator Rae,  at least, was an advocate of some sort of do-it-yourself law enforcement system. He drew some comfort from the existence of some long-standing obligations on citizens to assist in putting down routs and riots. 
But the honourable senator applauded the existence of such measures in the past and suggested that, in the hypothetical situation that I suggested, I might find myself in under a previous clause, far from being molested or in any way dealt with by the police I would merely be asked to assist in the suppression of the riot. I know that Seantor Rae also pointed out that this provision was being repealed, but I gathered the impression that he considered that that sort of thing was a good thing, that persons other than law enforcement officers- 
I am glad to accept from  Senator Rae  the assurance that he does not believe in that. If so, I would anticipate that when we come to vote he will cross the floor to vote with the Opposition for the elimination of this dangerous clause, and I submit that it is a most dangerous clause. We have the situation where there might be a gathering of people espousing a certain policy which is violently objected to by another crowd of people on the edge of this assembly. This is not a fantastic situation. This is something that occurs every Sunday down at the Domain in Sydney. We bad a recent example in Sydney where there was a demonstration by anti-apartheid demonstrators at Mascot airport against some visiting South African surfers, and some Nazis who happened to be gathered there also took it upon themselves - without any orders from any police to do any dispersing - to intervene and to disperse this gathering. We believe that the existence of this word in this clause - the invitation to persons- 
Consideration interrupted. 
That the  Chairman  do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The  Chairman  having reported accordingly. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, 1 formally put the question: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at J 1.1 p.m. 
When the debate on this clause was adjourned last night I had practically completed the submissions that I wished to make on what we on this side of the chamber regard as the objectionable features of this clause. I had drawn attention to our objections to the subjective test of 'reasonable apprehension'. Also I had referred to the dangers inherent in allowing a person to act as a law enforcement officer, with all the risks that we believe exist in this formulation, which in our submission amounts in some circumstances to an invitation to riot. I instanced the case of competing groups of people at an assembly at which tempers became inflamed, in which case one group might take it upon itself, in the light of this provision, to act as a law enforcement agency, and a riot could result. 
The only other point to which I wish to advert in relation to clause 8 is in connection with sub-section (3.) in which the penalty for an offence under this clause is spelt out. The relevant words are: each of those persons who has, without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with the direction - 
That is a direction given by a sergeant of police, when certain other circumstances have been satisfied - is guilty of an offence, punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding Five hundred dollars or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or both. 
We regard this provision as such a serious curtailment of the liberty of the subject that we believe that if there is to be such an offence it should be an indictable offence because, in our view, the safeguard of a jury trial is required in these circumstances. Therefore I move: 
In sub-clause (3.) (b) after 'an' insert 'indictable'. 
I was surprised that the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  who in this chamber represents the Attorney-General  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in answering  Senator Murphy  and in travers ing the various statutory provisions dealing with trespass throughout the country should have missed a provision which is here in his own backyard. I refer to the Police Offences Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory. Section 24b states: 
Any person who is found without lawful excuse (proof of which excuse shall be upon that person) in any building, structure or erection, upon any lands, in or under a vehicle or boat or in any enclosed yard, garden or area, shall be guilty of an offence. 
The penalty for that offence is $20 or imprisonment for 3 months. One of the principal counts in the Opposition's indictment of this Bill has been that it is unnecessary. Surely it would be hard to find any clause in this Bill which is more unnecessary than clause 1 1 (1.) in the light of the existence of this quite wide power - as far as the Australian Capital Territory is concerned - which is contained in section 24b of the Police Offences Ordinance. The only material difference between clause 11 (1.) and the Ordinance which I have cited is that in the clause we are considering the words 'without reasonable excuse' but in the Ordinance the words 'without lawful excuse' appear. With all respect to the Minister, it is hard to see how the existence of the trespass provision in section 24b of the Police Offences Ordinance does not provide sufficient cover for the acts which presumably this present Bill was designed to deal with. I can anticipate that I will meet with this objection: 'Well, why do you object to a clause which is more moderate and which provides a smaller penalty than the one in section 24b?' I do not suppose we need to worry about that very much but the fact remains that section 24b of the Police Offences Ordinance will be available even when (his Bill becomes law. 
One of the objections which occur to us is the multiplicity of legal sanctions which are introduced into the law when one has this provision alongside section 24b of the Police Offences Ordinance. For example, who will decide in the case of some youths who have been arrested after a demonstration whether they are to be charged on the basis of clause 11 of the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill or section 24b of the Police Offences Ordinance? One could imagine that if some student leader were involved about whom some strong feelings were held by the authorities, it might be felt desirable to give him a sterner lesson than some lesser fry. Resort might be had to section 24b of the Police Offences Ordinance which would enable this offender to be thrown into gaol for 3 months whereas under clause 11 of the present Bill he would be liable to a penalty not exceeding 1 month's imprisonment. But why do we need both provisions? Why is it necessary to introduce this clause when we already have the section to which I have referred? Perhaps the Minister might be able to throw some light on this question. As I said, I was rather surprised that he did not mention the Police Offences Ordinance after going through the statutes of Australia. I hesitate to think that he did not know of its existence but I would like him to enlighten us, in the light of the existence of this Ordinance, why he needs this clause in the present Bill. 
 Clause  21  had some sort of an airing yesterday because  1  suggested that it shonld be considered in association with clause  5.  In the debate yesterday the Government spokesman denied that there is a threat in this Bill to innocent people who happen to get caught up innocently in an assembly. I was objecting to the effect which these sections taken together have of making a person's mere presence, even if it is fortuitous, at a certain place someting which puts him in jeopardy. It was pointed out to me correctly - in fact, I conceded it in my remarks - that these are purely evidentiary sections; that a charge of taking part in an illegal assembly can be rebutted by evidence by the person charged that he was not in fact taking part in the assembly. I pointed out that this is not how it happens in real life, and that in practice a citizen finding himself in this position finds himself carrying a very difficult onus. That view is supported by what happened over the past few days in Washington in the great demonstrations which occurred there. If honourable senators will bear with me I would like to refer briefly to a report which appears in this morning's 'Canberra Times'. It was written by a correspondent of the Washington 'Star'. I will read only small sections of it to make my point. The article is as follows:  1 spent 20 hours Monday as a guest of the 
District of Columbia Government, and they charged me 50c an hour for the privilege. 
I was arrested at the height of Monday's thrashing and blockading in Georgetown, I was not told I was arrested until hours later. I was an observer. I committed no crime. 
The correspondent refers also to a lawyer who was arrested with him. The article continues: 
The lawyer was there because he, and apparently a substantial number of others like him, including me, had been in the wrong place at the wrong time. 
A little further on in the article he says: 
I was arrested for nothing at all. In fact, I wasn't eventold I was arrested until I was being booked. 
The article continues in that vein. That happened in the United States, of course, but surely it would not be suggested that the same thing could not happen here. In fact, I suggest that it has happened here. I know of cases of it having happened here. It will be claimed, and this was said iti response to what I said yesterday that the citizen finding himself in that situation merely has to give evidence that he was not taking part in the unlawful assembly. But surely it is not a matter of no concern at all that that citizen, even if acquitted, has been put to the inconvenience of being taken away, fingerprinted, charged and detained. That is a gross interference with his daily life even if in the event he finally manages to get acquitted. I suggest that the onus which is cast on a man who may be quite innocently and fortuitously caught up in a demonstration, as provided by clause 21, is an unreasonable imposition on citizens. 
It would be churlish of the Opposition not to applaud the positive features of this Bill. In many respects it represents a real advance for employees of the Commonwealth and its prescribed authorities who are unfortunate enough to be injured at work. Certainly the Bill in its present form is a big improvement on the Bill which was introduced into the House of Representatives by the then Treasurer in March 1970 and was subsequently withdrawn and replaced by the Bill now before us. This Bill in its present form illustrates the fact that efforts by an Opposition in criticising legislation introduced by the Government need not be entirely futile. Of course the debt Which the Government owes to the Opposition and to other people who have made a contribution towards this Bill in its present form was freely acknowledged by the Minister when he introduced the Bill. The Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  said that representations had been received from the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other sources and that a contribution towards the Bill in its present form had also been made by members of the Opposition in both the Senate and the other place. Therefore when we compliment the Government on having been receptive to the suggestions which have been put forward we are in some sense also complimenting ourselves. 
There is no doubt that in many important respects this Bill does introduce progressive measures which were not previously in the compensation code, especially the measures dealing with diseases, the journey provisions, provisions relating to rehabilitation and vocational training, and the administrative parts of the Bill which deal especially with appeals and the constitution of the appeals tribunals. These are some of the features of this Bill which we commend and applaud. But I do not want to appear to be exuding too much sweetness and light, so I will now move on to some criticisms which we make of this otherwise praiseworthy Bill. 
In the first place we on this side axe not content with the rates prescribed for workers on compensation. Anyone who follows the news these days will be aware that a ground swell is developing among employees for something approaching full wage entitlement for incapacitated workers. This is the main ingredient in a large industrial dispute which is taking place in New South Wales at the present time.  Senator Bishop  pointed out that there has been a progressive improvement in these rates in the States, especially in South Australia where the rate for an incapacitated worker has now reached a level of 85 per cent of his ordinary earnings. We consider that the rates stipulated in this Bill, even though they are an improvement on the previous inadequate rates which applied, are still very unsatisfactory. We consider rates of $35 a week for an unmarried man, $43.50 for a married man and $48.50 for a married man with one child are quite inappropriate in this day and age when the average weekly wage is about $84 per week. We are most concerned that the hardship which is occasioned to the average family, which has nothing to spare from the weekly wage, should be allowed to continue because of lack of provision in this Bill to increase the rate of compensation to an amount somewhere near the ordinary wage which Ls earned by a working man. We commend to the Government the suggestion that there should be regular reviews of the rates of compensation and that such rates should be at a level closer to the full wage of the family bread-winner. 
There is one other fundamental flaw in this Bill. It was lightly touched on by  Senator Bishop.  I would like to develop this point in some further detail. I refer to the scheduled lump sum payments provided for under clause 39 of this Bill. My quarrel is not so much with the amounts to be paid. In many ways this provision is to be applauded. The proposed new lump sum payments represent an improvement on the existing rates and in some respects they break new ground, for instance in the provision for a lump sum payment for the loss of sexual capacity or for severe facial disfigurement. As I understand it, the philosophy behind the provision for scheduled lump sum payments made under workers compensation Acts is that where there is no action for damages for serious and permanent injury received by a worker - and of course this is what happens in the majority of oases - the worker should receive some comfort by way of a money payment for his diminished enjoyment of life. Implicit in the philosophy behind  thi  payment of a lump sum is the notion that the lump sum should be over and above the amount to which the injured worker is entitled by way of weekly compensation. The lump sum should be an amount that is not affected in any way by his right to receive weekly compensation either in the past or in the future. Workers who come under the provisions of this Bill will in most cases find themselves in that position. 1 point out that under the New South Wales Workers Compensation Act all workers, whether or not they are permanently incapacitated and no matter how long they are off work, are entitled to weekly compensation during their incapacity plus a lump sum payment regardless of their right to weekly compensation. Under the provisions of this Bill that situation will not obtain precisely in an area where it is most desirable that it should obtain. In developing my argument on this point I may be dealing with something which perhaps could more appropriately be dealt with during the Committee stage of this Bill, but I crave the indulgence of the Senate to enable me to give a slightly detailed analysis of 1 or 2 clauses of this Bill because it bears on my general criticism of this important clause in the Bill, namely the departure from what I consider to be the real philosophy behind lump sum payments. I draw the attention of the Senate to sub-clause (14.) of clause 39 which reads: 
An amount  of  compensation referred to in this section-  that is one of the amounts for a schedule injury -  is not payable in respect of an injury so long as the employee is, or is likely to become, totally incapacitated for work where the incapacity for work results, or, if it occurs, will result, in whole or in part from that injury. 
Why, one asks, should the totally incapacitated worker be excluded from the right to a, lump sum payment? One would have thought, for example, that a man who had the misfortune to lose both his legs in the course of his work would need the consolation to be obtained from a capital sum much more than a man who had lost a little finger. If I may recapitulate, a totally incapacitated worker is disqualified from receiving a lump sum payment. Taking it the other way around, once a lump sum payment has been made no further weekly compensation is payable - apart from minor exceptional cases with which I will deal later. This eventuates because of the operation of 2 clauses - clause 45 (9.) in the case of total but not permanent incapacity, and clause 46 (5.) in the case of partial incapacity. 
Dealing with clause 45 (9.) first, if a man is totally incapacitated for work for a limited period the payment to him of a lump sum for a schedule injury determines his right to receive weekly compensation. One of the abuses which immediately becomes possible under such a prescription is in the case of a man who might have a period of incapacity of. say, 6 months. Once a determination is made in his favour for a lump sum he gets no further weekly compensation. I am not suggesting that the authorities who will be administering this Act will be maliciously motivated. I am referring to the mere presence of this provision in their hands. One could imagine, for example, that a department which employed an incapacitated employee might believe, quite wrongly, after he had been away from work for about 3 months that he was malingering. If a determination were then made that he was entitled to a lump sum that would be the end  at  his right to weekly compensation. 
The same thing applies to partial incapacity. An employee might have his earning capacity reduced by, say, $10 a week but if a determination had been made in his favour for, say, $4,050 for the loss of a thumb his right to this make-up pay - this difference between his capacity to earn and his pre-injury capacity to earn - would disappear for the rest of his life. This shortcoming in the Bill is compounded by the fact that an injured employee has no right of election in this matter. In both of the clauses that I have mentioned the Bill uses languages such as 'where a determination is made' but says nothing about an employee having requested the granting of a lump sum or anything like that. So it seems to me that it is in the discretion of the Commissioner for Employees Compensation to decide when a man should or should not have a lump sum, and he having made that decision the injured employee's right to weekly compensation is either ter minated or limited in the way that I will advert to, having regard to the exceptions that are made by the Bill. This, in my submission, is a serious weakness in the Bill when considered in conjunction with the provisions of State compensation Acts, especially the New South Wales Act where the right to a lump sum is totally untrammelled. The employee under the New South Wales Act is entitled to his lump sum and also his weekly compensation and the two do not interfere with each other in any way. 
There are exceptions to the rule that a lump sum terminates the right of a worker to weekly compensation. But these exceptions are, in my submission, also illogically based. One exception is provided by clause 47, the effect of which is that an employee who has had his lump sum but who subsequently has to have medical treatment for his injury may go back on compensation for a period of incapacity due to the medical treatment or while he is having the medical treatment. Why is there that limitation? If the medical treatment ceases and he is still disabled he has no right to go back on compensation. Clause 50, which deals with a further exception, provides that where a man has had a lump sum and later becomes totally incapacitated his right to compensation revives, but he gets his compensation at a lower scale than if he had not had that lump sum. There is an elaborate formula which has the effect of making him give some credit for the lump sum which he has already received. So in our submission this, as I said, is a serious weakness in an otherwise more or less praiseworthy Bill. We would urge that the payment of a lump sum should not affect the right of a worker to weekly compensation for a limited period for either total incapacity or partial incapacity or, putting it the other way round, the extent or duration of a man's incapacity should not affect his right to a lump sum. 

 Senator Bishop has traversed many of the details and minor shortcomings of this Bill and I do not wish to cover the same ground as we will have an opportunity during the Committee stage to refer to these minor but important matters. But I would just like to touch at this time on the question of compensation tribunals which also was referred to by  Senator Bishop. 
We agree that these do represent a considerable advance on the appeal provisions under the Commonwealth workers compensation code, but we would urge that the considerations which appear to have moved the Government in framing the provisions about medical boards should also apply in the case of tribunals. It will be recalled that the medical board provisions enabled the injured employee to be represented on the board by a doctor of his nomination as well as one nominated by his employer. We would suggest that the proposition that was put forward by  Mr Clyde  Cameron in the other place in relation to tribunals might commend itself to the Government in considering further improvements to this Bill. 
As part of an amendment to the Bill he moved:  (2.) A Compensation Tribunal shall be constituted by a  Chairman  and two other members, who shall be appointed by the Governor-General. (3.) One of the members of each Compensation Tribunal other than the  Chairman  shall be appointed on the nomination in writing of the Public Service Board. (4.)  The Council of Commonwealth Public Ser vice Organisations and the Australian Council of Trade Unions may each nominate persons in writing and one of the members of each Compensation Tribunal other than the  Chairman  shall be appointed from the persons so nominated. 
We believe that if the tribunals were so constituted, with the  chairman  of course having the casting vote, their work would be in no way impeded but in reaching his determinations the  chairman  would have the benefit of the advice of people from each side of the record. Not only that, but there would also be a general feeling among Commonwealth employees that their applications for compensation were receiving a fair, complete and impartial consideration. 
There is one other small matter that  Senator Mulvihill  was particularly concerned about and that is the delays in the hearing of appeals. Clause 79 (2.) and 90 (5.) of the Bill provide that an appeal will not be heard in any event until at least 60 days after the lodging of the appeal. I appreciate that the reason for this is probably that the employer would need some time to assemble the facts of his case, but 60 days strikes me as being an excessive period. I can see no reason why the Commonwealth authorities, with the resources available to them, could not bring an appeal on within a shorter period. Of course it is unnecessary for me to point out that a man who is disabled and who has been denied compensation may find himself in the position, pending the hearing of his appeal, of having no resources at all to sustain himself and his family, so I would urge the Government to take a closer look at these sections and possibly minimise the period during which an appeal should be heard. I appreciate that this is not a hard and fast rule because sub-clause (2.) of clause 79 states: 
Unless the Compensation Tribunal otherwise orders, the date fixed for a reconsideration of  a  matter or question shall be not less than sixty days . . . 
What I am suggesting is that even though that discretion is available to shorten proceedings there should not be any onus on an injured employee to take steps to shorten the period. He should have, as a matter of right, the opportunity to have his appeal heard as expeditiously as possible. 
Finally, as  Senator Bishop  has said, the Government, realising that this Bill can stand improvement, has promised that an interdepartmental committee will consider submissions for further improvements which may be put before it. We commend this open-mindedness but would suggest that the consideration of further improvements of the Act properly belongs to the Parliament itself and that a better body to consider improvements would be a joint parliamentary committee. We would urge the Government to consider setting up such a committee to consider improvements or submissions which have been suggested by the various trade union bodies and which have emerged from debates in both Houses of the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer,  upon notice: 
When will the Government introduce legislation for the supervision of insurance companies which it foreshadowed 8 months ago, in view of the  fact  that nine insurance companies have collapsed in Australia since July 1970 and two more large companies are in the process of being wound up. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It has not proved practicable to introduce legislation during the present Session, but it is hoped that legislation will be ready for introduction  during  the Budget Session. 
I should like to add briefly to the remarks which I made yesterday concerning the question of lump sum payments. Yesterday I pointed out that the effect of sub-clause  (14.)  of clause  39,  subclause  (9.)  of clause  45  and sub-clause  (5.)  of clause  46,  notwithstanding the exceptions made by clauses  47  and  50,  was to impose limitations on the right to a lump sum. I pointed out that this cut across the general philosophy regarding lump sums in other workers' compensation Acts, that the right to a lump sum should be clearly, unequivocally and, without exception over and above the right to receive weekly compensation. In reply to this submission the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood),  acknowledged that what I had said was the case and he undertook to put this general proposition before the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  By way of miti gation of the shortcomings which I had pointed out in this Bill, the Minister for Health said: 
 I think this is a relevant consideration, that the lump sum payments under the Bill are considerably higher than they are under the New South Wales legislation. 
Later, he said: 
I think it is fair to say that the net effect is that the higher amounts payable under the Bill, plus the other provisions to which I have referred, would be more beneficial to some employees than the benefit in the New South Wales Act to which  Senator James  McClelland referred. 
On the assumption that the Minister, when considering suggestions that come forward to him, will be interested to study the Hansard record of what has been said about these various suggestions, I should like merely to comment that it would be no comfort to a totally disabled man to be told that the lump sum which he is not getting under this Bill is twice as much as the lump sum which an employee would get under the New South Wales Act. 
It is frequently lamented by injured workers that their injury, which may be as serious as, and in many cases more serious than, the list of scheduled injuries, is not included in the schedule of injuries entitling an injured worker to a lump sum. One such injury that comes readily to mind is a permanent injury to the back. In this regard I commend to the Minister, and ask him to bring to the attention of the Minister for Social Services, section  70  of the South Australian Act which reads as follows: 
If the workman suffers a permanent injury not mentioned in the table set forth in section 69 of this Act-- that is the schedule of injuries-- and that injury results in either total or partial incapacity for work whether such incapacity is actual or potential or that injury is an injury referred to in sub-section (3) of this section, compensation for that injury shall subject to subsection (2) of this section be assessed by the court as if - 
the injury were set out in that table; and 
a percentage fixed by the court having regard to - 
the nature of the injury; and 
the employment or occupation for  which the workman was suited before the occurrence of the injury and the employment or occupation for which the workman is suited after the occurrence of the injury, was set out in that table opposite the description of the injury-- 
Other words which are not immediately relevant follow. I ask the Minister to draw to the attention of the Minister for Social Services that section in the South Australian Act so that consideration may be given to the insertion of a similar provision regarding lump sum payments in the Bill under consideration. 
I feel a certain sympathy with the last  speaker, Senator Greenwood,  an ambitious man who has recently been raised to the purple. He fears that the chill political winds may rip his new robes from him almost before he has become used to wearing them. Therefore he has reverted to the tired old. smears which have been the stock-in-trade of his political party for so many years. The supporters of this shoddy little propaganda exercise have strayed so far from the point that it may be appropriate to remind the Senate what we are debating. We are not here to debate whether the Australian Labor Party supports strikers going on to building sites, tearing down the work and assaulting the men on the site. We are not here to discuss whether the Labor Party approves of violence by demonstrators. We are here to discuss a subject matter which has been framed presumably with some thought and with plenty of care by its movers. The terms are as follows: 
The developing practice of using industrial Trade Union organisations to effect purposes of a political character, not designed to or having the effect of improving the industrial conditions of the members of these organisations . . . Ant' so on. 
One would have thought that the first thing we would have had from the supporters of this proposition would have been a definition of terms. I think it would have been enlightening to be told of the precise line of demarcation between an industrial and a political matter. But we have waited, in vain for any such definition.. The reason is perfectly obvious. It is because no such line can be drawn. Every now and then we read in the editorial columns of the daily papers pious exhortations to the unions to develop from their old-fashioned basis of merely being concerned with the wages and conditions of their members and to advance into the 70s with new ideas and a more broadly based programme for their members. When an attempt is made by the unions to act on this advice we get this sort of reaction: Get back to your old simple narrow operations of concerning yourselves merely with wages and conditions. 
Let us look at some of the things which the unions not only here but in other countries have been concerning themselves with in recent years. Let us decide whether the unions are stepping outside their legitimate sphere of interesting themselves in these matters. Is it not permissible for. a union to be interested in the matter of housing for its members? Is that an industrial matter within the terms of this resolution? Is it not permissible for unions to be interested in the matter of credit banking and co-operative societies? But would not that step outside what is acceptable according to the terms of this proposition? Is it not permissible for unions to be interested in matters of transport? But that also would surely be outside the unions' sphere of interest. One could go 7 n Consumer protection is another such iter. According to the framers of this subject for discussion that would be' an impermissible activity for a trade union. Yet as we all know it was the activities of the much maligned  Mr Hawke,  the bete noire of the Attorney-General  (Senator' Greenwood)  and his like, on the question of resale price maintenance which prodded this laggard Government into finally doing something about the matter. But according to the framers of this proposition that is something which the unions are not permitted to do. Are not the unions permitted to be interested in the subject of environment? I cite an example. When a drill was set up on the Great Barrier Reef and unionists refused to man it the authorities were so ashamed that drilling operations ceased and a royal commission was set up to investigate whether any drilling should take place on the Barrier Reef at all. As yet drilling has not been resumed. Have the Australian people anything to blame unionists for in taking that action? Should they not rather praise unionists for saving this priceless national heritage. But according to the words of this submission that is something with which unions should not concern themselves. 
The same remarks apply to the agitation which is engaged in by unions and others over the iniquitous and scandalous Clutha development, which was approved of by the Attorney-General's associates in New South Wales. Are not the unionists who live in that area concerned both for themselves and their children with the environment in which they live and in which these children grow? Is this something about which unionists should not be concerned merely because the matter does not concern wages and conditions? Are not unionists interested in matters of health, or in tariffs which might affect their employment, or with education and pensions? After all, unionists do grow old. But if we listen to the framers and supporters of this proposition these things are beyond the charter of trade unions. Where do we draw the line? Of course, much has been made of the actions of unionists over the recent apartheid business.  Senator Wright  was incautious enough to state that the actions of the anti-apartheid demonstrators in Australia had involved Australia in international ill will. If the honourable senator had any familiarity with what has been written in overseas papers in recent months he would know that the only ill will which has attatched to Australia over the Springboks tour has been the ill will caused by the Government in flouting all the international agreements - which were referred to by  Senator Murphy  - in allow- ing the Springboks to come here at all. Ill will attaches to Australia throughout Asia because we are branded as a bastion of racism for allowing the Springboks into Australia. This is far more harmful than anything the demonstrators may have done. 
We are constantly told by the present Government that our future lies in Asia. Whether we like it or not we are almost a part of Asia. We will have to live wilh the Asians. Does it help our future and does it help us to live with the Asians if the only thing they know about Australia is that we hang on to America's coat tails by sending troops to Vietnam and that we are one of the few countries which will allow Springbok sporting teams to come to Australia? Do the unions do Australia any ill by taking a stand against this sort of thing? We should at least be thankful that they and those who support them do something to counter the evil name which Australia gets throughout Asia by allowing . these teams into the country. 
 That is a fine interjection from  Senator Gair  on my left. I oppose what he said.  Senator Gair  who takes issue with me on this question of racism interjects. I shall quote the honourable senator aloud so that the people of Australia will know what he said. He said: 'Two wongs don't make a white'. No wonder  Senator Gair  does not mind the Springboks coming to Australia. But as I was about to say, there is also an element of sour grapes in this motion that comes from the Democratic Labor Party. As  Senator Murphy  mentioned earlier, there are many unions affiliated to the Australian Labor Party and there are a few  -  a very, few - affiliated to the Democratic Labor Party.  Senator Little  interjected when  Senator Murphy  was speaking 
 That is right. They are proud of the fact that they have one or two small unions affiliated to them. They would obviously like to have more unions affiliated to them. If they did one could imagine  Senator Gair, Senator Little  and  Senator Kane  coming into this chamber and boasting about the great groundswell of feeling fir certain issues instanced by demonstrations and perhaps even strikes by unions that were affiliated to them. One can imagine them boasting about some demonstration by one of their unions against the recognition of China; for the continuation of the Vietnam war; or in favour of the Springbok tour or if we believe the sentiments of  Senator Gair,  in favour of apartheid itself. One can also imagine them boasting about demonstrations in favour of more or harsher censorship or against the visits of the Russian ballet, a Chinese ping-pong team or perhaps even in favour of the Greek colonels regime. But, of course, they cannot boast about these things because, except for a. tiny few unions affiliated to them, they do not have unions. They do not have any causes with which to fire the enthusiasm that makes people demonstrate. 
What are they suggesting? They are suggesting that the democratic process is exhausted by electors going to the polls every 3 years and then lapsing into inactivity until they get the opportunity to go again. In the meantime, presumably, they are to resile from all political action. I suggest to the supporters of this motion that life is not like that and only a negative reactionary party would have us believe that it is or that it should be. 
1 rise to comment very briefly on one theme which has run through the comments of all speakers who have spoken in favour of maintaining the Ordinance. It was given its fullest expression by the previous  speaker, Senator Davidson,  but it was referred to also by  Senator Byrne  and by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  I refer to the proposition that in some way it is almost impertinent for Parliament to presume to examine with any closeness a measure which has had the attention of distinguished experts. I do not yield in any respect to any of the speakers in this debate when agreeing that in this Ordinance we have had the assistance of some very distinguished legal men. The names of  Mr Justice  Fox of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court and  Mr Justice  Mason of the New South Wales Court of Appeal have been mentioned. From my experience of these men I know that they are very eminent lawyers. But I think it would be a sad day for the Senate and for Parliament generally if legislators were intimidated in any way by the distinguished qualifications of whose who have assisted in the drafting of legislation. Surely this criticism could be levelled against the impertinence of the Senate or the House of Representatives in challenging any matter that came before it. 
Presumably the Government of the day, in drafting an Act or ordinance, does call upon skilled minds to assist in the framing of the Act or ordinance. To say that this should in some way inhibit the Parliament is totally to misconceive the function of the Parliament. We do not sit here as a collection of experts. We bring to the consideration of Bills or ordinances that come before us a lay mind. In a sense it could be said that what we bring to the consideration of these measures is the collective folk wisdom and experience of the Community. I would merely suggest that in respect of this Ordinance or in respect of any Bill the fact that it has been framed by distinguished minds is never a good argument against the Parliament considering meticulously or irrelevantly anything that is brought before it. Lawyers especially will know that there is nothing sacrosanct about lawyers which should put them beyond question. It is a familiar spectacle to see the highest legal minds in the land - the judges of the High Court - divided 4 to 3 on matters of the utmost importance to the community - matters on which the layman might imagine that there could be such certainty that the judges would be unanimous. I suggest that when honourable senators are examining this proposition and voting on it they should not be intimidated in any way by the argument put firstly by the Minister, then by  Senator Byrne  and then by  Senator Davidson,  that this Ordinance is almost above question because some of the best legal minds have been engaged in preparing it. I suggest that this is a totally irrelevant argument and one which should be overlooked by senators. 
There were one or two smaller matters raised by the Minister which I suggest are equally irrelevant. One was the fact that this was the first time in the 40 years of its existence that the Committee has taken the course which it is suggesting now and that that in some way is an argument against taking this proposition seriously. This may indicate nothing more than that the Committee as at present constituted is more conscientious and more watchful than perhaps it has been in the past. Honourable senators should ignore this argument also Nor is it an argument - and this, too, was put by the Minister - that legislative enactments affecting the Australian Capital Territory are ordinarily done by ordinance rather than by statute. The fact that he could find only two instances of the latter course having been taken is, I submit, also beside the point. If it can he done by statute, it should be done by statute. The rarity of such action is quite beside the point. If the Ordinance deals with a matter of such importance that it should receive the consideration of the Parliament by coming before the Parliament as a statute, that should conclude the matter. The other arguments that have been put by the Minister and by the other speakers in favour of maintaining the Ordinance are, I suggest, so many red herrings. 
I move: 
That section 3 (2.) and section S of the Parole of Prisoners Ordinance 1971, as contained in Australian Capital Territory Ordinance No. 3 of 1971, and made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1970, be disallowed. 
As indicated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  the objection of the Opposition to this Ordinance is limited to section 3 (2.) and section 5. By way of introduction I point out that what this Ordinance seeks to achieve is in line with provisions which are already part of the criminal law of most States. Honourable senators who have time to read in the daily newspapers reports of criminal trials will have noticed from time to time that the presiding judge, in sentencing a prisoner, will set a non-parole period. This Ordinance seeks to import into the law of the Australian Capital Territory the same procedure whereby a judge may impose a minimum non-parole period in the sentences imposed on people convicted in these courts. We believe that this is a sound principle and we do not object to it. What we object to are the machinery provisions in the sections mentioned by  Senator Murphy  under which it is proposed that this procedure should be carried out. Section 3(2.) states: 
A reference in this Ordinance to the GovernorGeneral shall be read as a reference to the Governor-General acting with the advice of the Attorney-General. 
Section 5 sets out the method by which a decision by a judge that there should be a minimum non-parole period shall be carried into effect. The relevant portion is contained in section 5(2.) which states: 
Subject to this section, the Governor-General may, in his discretion, by order in writing direct that a person, being a person who is serving a term of imprisonment for an offence in respect of which a minimum term of imprisonment has been fixed in pursuance of this Ordinance, be released from prison on parole at a time specified in the order, being a time that is after the expiration of that minimum term of imprisonment. 
The objection we have to this provision is that it places in the hands of the Executive an unfettered jurisdiction to administer this quite progressive provision which is being imported into the law of the Australian Capital Territory. To underline this aspect we point to the manner in which this is carried out in the States. In New South Wales, for example, the administration of the legislation relating to a minimum parole period is in the hands of a Parole Board. The Parole Board in New South Wales consists of a judge of the Supreme Court, a judge of the District Court, a person who is the Registrar of the University of Sydney, a retired former UnderSecretary of Justice, the Comptroller-General of Prisons, and a businessman who, in this case, happens to be the personnel manager of the Leyland Motors organisation and who also is on the executive of the Prisoners' Aid Society. In Victoria there are 2 parole boards - one for males and one for females. Both boards are presided over by a Supreme Court judge. Victoria also has a separate special youth parole board. 
In our submission, this system of parole boards is a vastly superior system to vesting the power to carry out the decisions of the judges of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory in the AttorneyGeneral. That, in effect, is what it amounts to. We submit that, even though this might be considered to be a purely executive function, it should be treated as a continuing part of the judicial process and, that being the case, it is desirable that it be in the hands of an entirely independent board, such as is the case in New South Wales and Victoria. 
It may be said, and it has been said in the debate in the other place, that the Attorney-General, in exercising this power, is in one sense under a greater sanction than ever a parole board is. It may be claimed that the Attorney-General, being answerable to the Parliament, is under considerable pressure to exert the utmost care, humanity and conscientiousness in the exercise of this prerogative because his actions will be subjected to the scrutiny of the Parliament. But, in our submission, this really begs the whole question. Even if the Attorney-General or, as would be the actual practice, one of his officers were to give all these matters the utmost consideration and to examine them with the greatest conscientiousness, they are, by the very nature of circumstances, not as appropriate as a parole board to exercise this jurisdiction. 
For example, the Attorney-General who, of course, has many problems on his plate - I do not think I will hear from the Attorney-General any dissent from that proposition - would not, in the nature of things, be able to give to this matter the consideration that would be given to it by a board specially set up for the purpose. In practice the exercise of his function would devolve on one of his officers. In the last analysis, of course, we could assume the Attorney-General would make the decision himself. I am not suggesting, especially in relation to the present Attorney-General, that he would be a rubber stamp for any of his officers. Nonetheless he would have to be guided to a great extent by the recommendation of one of his officers. This is a very dangerous power to repose in some anonymous public servant. How do we know that such a man might not have special ingrained prejudices on some matter or other? He examines these matters in the quiet of his own office. He is not under any sort of scrutiny. He may be a man. for example, who has a view that certain types of crimes are more serious than they are regarded by the community at large. 
Let me quote an example of this sort of prejudice. I am not suggesting that this is a political prejudice or anything of that nature. In New South Wales in quite recent times there was functioning in the Wollongong area a magistrate who took a view of driving offences which was quite out of touch with the general community view of the seriousness of such offences. At that time the Wollongong district was subject to a great number of accidents caused by careless drivers, and this magistrate considered that it was his function to deter such practices by the imposition of savagely deterrent sentences. I recall that on one occasion he disqualified a driver for  20  years for having smooth tyres on his vehicle. The decisions of this magistrate were regularly reversed on appeal by the judge who sat on these matters in that district. But that did not deter this magistrate from proceeding with the savage sentences, which were out of all proportion to the offences. 
That is an extreme example. I quote it to underline the danger of having the consideration of the fate of a prisoner, who has been condemned to a term of imprisonment, ultimately in the hands of  1  man - whether he be the Attorney-General, applying his mind assiduously to the problem and considering all the circumstances in detail as one would hope he would be able to do but which one doubts he would find the time to do, or whether he be merely one of the Attorney-General's officers. This danger that there might be a blind spot in relation to certain types of crimes is infinitely less in the case of a parole board of the type I have mentioned as operating in New South Wales and Victoria. After all, one of the most important considerations, especially in the sphere of criminal law, is that in the eyes of the public at large, and especially of people who fall foul of the criminal law, there should be the appearance of justice as well as the existence of justice. 
These are the dangers that we see in confining the decision on whether a prisoner who has been sentenced under this legislation should be released at the end of his non-parole period or whether he should serve a longer period. We see the vesting of this power in  1  man - that is what it amounts to - as largely vitiating the progressive feature of this legislation. It might be argued, and it has been argued in the consideration of this ordinance in another place, that a comparison between the Australian Capital Territory and one of the major States, such as New South Wales or Victoria, is not apposite because in those major States the amount of work coming before a parole board is so much greater than it would be in a smaller place such as the Australian Capital Territory that the justification for the parole board which is to be found in those States does not exist in the Australian Capital Territory. 
But, in our submission, this also misses the point because, if the principle is established that the parole board is a superior body for carrying out this task, the validity of the argument that it would not have to meet often and, one hopes, would not have a great number of cases to deal with goes by the board. After all, if such a parole board were set up under the chairmanship of a Supreme Court judge of the Australian Capital Territory and with citizens of the type I have mentioned as operating in New South Wales and Victoria, the fact that it would not have a great deal to do would not matter. One does not envisage such a board as consisting of people who have no other functions any more than that is the case in New South Wales and Victoria. Also it must be taken into account that although this is now a small place, relatively, it is growing place and unfortunately when urban communities grow crime appears to increase. Regrettable though it may be, one can envisage that there would be more work for a parole board in the future than there is at present. For these reasons the Opposition considers that these sections of the ordinance should be disallowed in order that a superior form of machinery which has been tested and found adequate in the other States may also be applied in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Sirring suspended from 5.46 to 8 p.m. 
 in reply - I shall be very brief in replying to the submissions that have been put. I do not propose to waste any time attempting to dissipate  Senator Withers'  bewilderment at the difference between the functions of a lawyer who happens to be the Attorney-General and those of a lawyer who happens to be a judge. All that the honourable senator did by making those observations was to indicate to the Senate that he had no idea of the distinction in a democratic society between the Executive and the judiciary. Nor do we on the Opposition side of the chamber consider it parochial and unworthy of the attention of the Senate to be concerned about the affairs of a mere 150,000 citizens of Australia. We make no apology for our interest in the concerns of the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory. We will continue to exhibit this interest and attempt to ensure that the democratic process is not eroded bv this growing practice of dealing with matters by ordinance when they should be dealt with by legislation. 
While the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  was speaking I was able to check on one of the propositions he advanced in support of his contention that parole boards were far from being universal institutions throughout Australia. I had not, of course, put my argument as high as that. I had merely said that in the 2 most populous States, New South Wales and Victoria, a system of parole boards had been found by experience to be a superior system for dealing with this problem than the vesting of this discretion in the executive arm of government.  Senator Greenwood,  in attacking this proposition, said that in South Australia they did not rely on such an institution as a parole board. I was able to check with no less an authority than a person who happens to be a member of the present parole board whi-'h was set up in South Australia in April 1970. There is a parole board in South Australia headed by a former judge of the South Australian Supreme Court.  Mr Justice  Chamberlain. It has as its members a  Mr Gard,  who is Comptroller of Prisons:  Mr Baker,  a representative of the Chamber of Manufactures;  Dr Pulsford  who, I believe, is a psychiatrist and, of course, my informant, a Miss Herriott, who is a member of the Trades and Labour Council. I do not put that argument any higher than to say it re-enforces the general submission I made that experience in the greater part of Australia is in support of the superiority of parole boards to deal with this problem. 
 I am informed that it carries out the same functions as those performed by the parole boards in New South Wales and Victoria. It was no part of my submission, as I thought was suggested by the AttorneyGeneral, that in any narrow technical sense parole boards are to be considered as judicial bodies. Obviously the distinctions made by the Attorney-General between a judicial body, properly so-called, and the parole boards are valid distinctions. All I was saying was that it is a continuation of the judicial process to have the superintendence of a sentence imposed by a judge in the hands of a body which would have some judicial guidance such as is given to parole boards in the States I have mentioned. After all, if the original imposition of the sentence is part of the judicial process - surely nobody, including the AttorneyGeneral, would quarrel with that proposition - the superintendence of that sentence after it has been imposed should surely be considered to be a continuing part of the judicial process. It was only in that limited sense, not in any precise lawyer's sense, that I was suggesting that a parole board is a part of the continuing judicial process. 
It seemed that the Attorney-General and  Senator Byrne  accepted the principle of parole boards and that the argument against having a parole board in the Australian Capital Territory is based on what the Attorney-General called practicable and reasonable procedures.  His  argument went something like this: In the States parole boards are exercising a daily and weekly task in considering the problems of paroles and, therefore, are enabled to acquire an expertise which could not be expected of a similar board in the Australian Capital Territory which would have to deal with only a minuscule number of such cases. So the argument of the AttorneyGeneral was that a parole board set up in the Australian Capital Territory would not acquire this expertise and, therefore, would not be a very useful body. Surely this prompts the question: Where will the desirable expertise be located in the system he advocates? If the Attorney-General is to be charged with exercising this task and is to deal with these problems only once or twice in a year, or as infrequently as was suggested, surely the charge can be levelled that the Attorney-General entrusted with the task will never acquire the expertise either. So in what way is the cause of justice served by having an inexpert AttorneyGeneral handling the matter instead of an inexpert parole board? 
If it is claimed that there is so little work for a parole board in the Australian Capital Territory that its existence would be superfluous, as is suggested by the Attorney-General, surely the answer, as was suggested by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  is that we are not advocating setting up some high-sounding body which will be occupied for only 2 or 3 days a year and will have nothing to do for the rest of the time. After all, the parole boards in Victoria and New South Wales are not staffed by men whose sole function is to act as members of the parole boards. I cited the names and the occupations of the people who are on the parole board in New South Wales. I will repeat them in order that it may be seen that they are all busy people with many other functions. One of them is a judge of the Supreme Court of New South Wales. He happens to be a judge who sits in the matrimonial causes jurisdiction and disposes of hundreds of divorce cases in. the course of a year. Another is a district court judge who has the usual lists of a district court judge. Another is the Registrar of the University of Sydney. Another is a former Under-Secretary of Justice. Another is the present Comptroller-General of Prisons. 
Surely the mere recital of those names and the functions that those people perform is sufficient to show that the task of a parole board is not necessarily a full time one. We are not suggesting that the parole board which we would like to see set up in the Australian Capital Territory should provide sinecures for some halfemployed public servants. We merely suggest that people capable of carrying out the functions that are appropriate to a parole board are abundantly available in an area with such talent as the Australian Capital Territory has, and that they could perform a valuable social duty, in addition to the other social duties they carry out, in their capacity as members of the parole board. If a parole board is a superior type of body for dealing with this problem, it matters not that it will be employed for only a small portion of the time. 
Finally I would like also to touch on the point raised by  Senator Murphy  in response to the reproach that we have heard from the Attorney-General tonight not only in respect of this ordinance but also in respect of another ordinance which the Senate disallowed last week. The novel proposition seems to have crept into the Attorney-General's thinking that in some way or other the responsibility devolves upon the Opposition for creating some sort of chaos in the area that was sought to be covered by an ordinance if we have the temerity to disallow it. That is an argument that could be used against the Opposition exercising its duty - not its privilege; its duty - in respect not only of ordinances but also of any legislation that comes before this chamber. Our duty, as we conceive it, is to examine any legislation, whether by way of ordinance or statute, which is brought before us by the Government. If we consider that this legislation does not properly meet the problem it is designed to meet, it is our duty to oppose it and, if possible, to have it defeated. If there is any responsibility for any ensuing chaos or any ensuing mess in any sphere of government, it does not attach to us for having done our duty in opposing this legislation; it attaches to the Government for having introduced legislation that does not meet the needs it was designed to meet. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator James McClelland's)  be agreed to. 
Despite the plethora of legal authorities that we have had tonight from  Senator Byrne  it would be hard to imagine a more hollow proposition than that which he has put before us. My own view, and it is only my own view, about what transpired in the Senate in May of this year is that the Senate acted with rather excessive pomposity in calling these 2 editors before the Bar of the Senate. 
This is what I am saying. My view is that the Senate would have sufficiently cared for its own dignity and the preservation of its privileges if it had demanded from the offending editors a letter of apology to be sent to the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in Australia. Having said that, I would like to say further that there was clearly a breach of privilege by the newspaper men in question. 
Please allow me to develop my argument. The honourable senator took an hour to develop his. It is my view that there was clearly a breach of privilege; that the Senate was entitled to deal with the matter; that the offending journalists were dealt with fairly; and that there was no miscarriage of justice. But let us examine, first of all. the elaborate legal argument which has been put to us tonight at such inordinate length by  Senator Byrne.  One would have thought that before embarking on a line of argument which suggested that there was almost nothing to distinguish a legislative chamber from a court of law the honourable senator would have had a look at the Australian Constitution. If he had done so he would have found that section 71 reads as follows: 
The judicial power of the Commonwealth shall be vested in a Federal Supreme Court, to be called the High Court of Australia, and in such other federal courts as the Parliament creates, and in such other courts as it invests with federal jurisdiction. 
One would have thought also that  Senator Byrne  would have glanced at a couple of other sections, namely, section 49 and section 50. For his enlightenment and the enlightenment of those enthusiastic lawyers by whom he is surrounded tonight I would like to read section 49 and section 50 of the Constitution. Section 49 reads as follows: 
The powers, privileges and immunities of the Senate and of the House of Representatives, and of the members and the committees of each House, shall be such as are declared by the Parliament, and until declared shall be those of the Commons House of Parliament of the United Kingdom, and of its members and committees, at the establishment of the Commonwealth. 
Section 50 reads as follows: 
Each House of the Parliament may make rules and orders with respect to - (i.) The mode in which its powers, privileges, and immunities may be exercised and upheld; (ii.) The order and conduct of its business and proceedings either separately or jointly with the other House. 

 Senator Byrne, as a lawyer, should know that the common law doctrine of natural justice must cede to express provisions in a statute, even if the Parliament were to be regarded as a court. What did be suggest should have happened when those 2 men were called before the Bar of the Senate? He said they should have been called upon to show reason why they should not be dealt with. What was going to happen? They were going to come in here, presumably, and the  President  was to sit in the position of a judge. I do not think anybody here would quarrel with the proposition that the  President  has the dignity to act as a judge, but I do not think that even he would consider that he has the legal qualifications. And who was to be the prosecutor? Was each one of us to be allowed to cross-examine these journalists as they stood here? What would have been the rules of procedure governing these proceedings? It is only necessary to mention these things,  Mr President,  to point out the hopeless confusion into which  Senator Byrne  has fallen in an attempt to equate this Parliament with a court of law. When dealings with these journalists this Parliament was not acting as a court of law; it was acting as a legislative body in defence of its privileges in accordance with the powers conferred on it by the Constitution. 
Now it may be argued that this Parliament has not with sufficient precision defined the powers, privileges and immunities which it exercises under this section of the Constitution. I suggest that it has been accepted by the Parliament, largely in the light of what happened here in this particular case, that we need to do a lot more work to spell out just what those powers, privileges and immunities are. but there is no doubt that that section and the other section confer upon this Parliament absolute jurisdiction to decide the way in which it will conduct its affairs. It is not bound strictly by any laws of natural justice. 
It can only bind itself: that is a fact.  I  thank the lawyer behind me for that contribution. The fact is as I have said, that the Senate is not bound by any laws of natural justice. I would hope though - and I believe - that it has acted according to the laws of natural justice and I would hope that when the Privileges Committee gets down to an examination of its procedures it would spell out all sorts of protection for witnesses who are called before committees and for people in the position of the journalists who were called here on that day. But what sort of an injustice was done to those men? If we overlook the pettifogging, hair splitting approach which  Senator Byrne  has adopted in neglect of the Constitution and in a confused equation of a court of law with the Parliament of the land, let us have a look at what was done to these men. There is no need to go into it in detail. It has been elaborated by  Senator Drake-Brockman.  But very briefly what was done was that the men were called before the Committee. They were told that they could be legally represented. One of them in fact was legally represented. They were given every opportunity to say their piece. The publishers of their papers were written to and asked if they had any further submissions to make and they replied that they did not. It was only after all of these steps were taken that the journalists were called before the Bar of the House and dealt with in a most lenient way. 
In case  Senator Gair  thinks that they have suffered any gross personality damage or that their futures have been put in jeopardy by the way they have been dealt with, I can assure him that when the procedures were finished I accompanied one of the journalists,  Mr Richard  Walsh, who happens to be a long term personal friend of mine, to the refreshment room in this building and had a cup of coffee with him. Far from being bruised and far from feeling that he had been badly done by he commended the Senate for its dignified and very lenient way of dealing with him.  I  can assure  Senator Byrne  that  Mr Walsh  is not going to carry any mark, any trauma on his personality for the rest of his days because of what happened to him. And of course it is worth remembering, despite the mea culpas we heard from  Senator Byrne  tonight, that he did not raise his voice at the time against what was being done to the journalists. In fact the only voice that was raised as these men were leaving the chamber was that of the eloquent  Senator Gair  whose contributions tonight have been the usual neanderthal grunts that we get from him when his slumbers are disturbed. But what did  Senator Gair  say? As reported in the Press at the time he remarked as the men were leaving the chamber 'Flogged with a feather'! Surely we can assume from that comment, if it means anything- 
Of course I gave  Senator Gair  credit for the possibility that it might be meaningless but if it means anything it surely means that he considered the sentence too lenient. But now he comes along here tonight and, as I say, gives his usual grunts of approbation for spokesmen on his side but after listening to  Senator Byrne's  tedious, long winded and irrelevant speech I found myself wondering what his motivation should be. Surely it is a very surprising stance for somebody from this coiner to be adopting the posture of a defender of civil liberties. I remember that on the first occasion that I spoke in the Senate against the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill which had been introduced by the Government, a Bill which 1 considered to be unnecessary, irrelevant and unnecessarily harsh, the voices of  Senator Byrne, Senator Gair  and  Senator Little- 
I correct myself. 

 - Senator Gair might disagree with what Senators Little and Byrne said on that occasion. 
No, but your companions, your fellow philosophers, spoke in support of harsher and harsher measures being imposed. But now we hear them tonight, speaking rather longer than would normally be the case because of the adventitious fact that the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast, saying the opposite. Obviously their motive is not any sympathy with journalists or anybody who is not getting a fair go; they are, I suspect, grandstanding for the media. This was their opportunity to pose as friends of the journalists, as people who want to see everybody get a fair go. But we on this side of the chamber are not convinced by the pseudo-legal submissions made by  Senator Byrne,  nor are we taken in by any suggestion that he is motivated by any concern for the civil liberties of the journalist. This motion propounded by  Senator Byrne  is worthless and should be rejected by the Senate. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to the case of 2 school
              teachers who were committed for trial yesterday by a magistrate at Newcastle. New
              South Wales, on a charge of conspiring to defraud a stock broking firm by placing
              orders with that firm to sell 4.000 shares in Tasminex and 4.000 shares in Westralian
              Nickel which, it is alleged, they did not in fact own at the time but which they hoped
              to buy, subsequent to the sale, on a falling market in order that they might complete
              the transaction and thereby make a profit? Does the Minister see any real difference
              between the alleged conduct of those 2 men and that of respectable broker firms and
              others in the short selling operations in connection with shares in Antimony Nickel,
              none of whom has yet been prosecuted? Finally, will the Minister, in considering any
              legislation arising out of the anticipated report of the Senate Select Committee on
              Securities and Exchange, recommend to the Government the inclusion of penalties for
              conduct such as that of the short sellers in shares in Antimony Nickel? 
In the light of the answer given by the Leader of the Government to a question asked by the Leader of the Opposition about employment, particularly the Minister's comparison of unemployment levels in Australia with levels in other countries, does the Minister agree that present employment trends in Australia indicate the likelihood of a 2 per cent level of unemployment in the new year, or twice the present level of unemployment? Does the Minister regard such a percentage as an acceptable level of unemployment? Does the Government intend to wait until that level is reached before reversing the deflationary strategy of the Budget? 
As to what action would be taken in relation to any significant movement in unemployment figures or job opportunity figures, I think we all recognise that in an economy, particularly an economy such as Australia's where we have the ingredients of primary industry, industrialisation and a migration policy, this is not a precise science. But the Government has always maintained a degree of flexibility to meet situations. On the best advice available to the Government, a policy is pursued. But within that policy, as it is pursued, there is a degree of flexibility to meet a situation that may arise. . 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service aware of recent statements by the National Director of the Australian Council of Employers Federations,  Mr George  Polites, that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act should be torn up and completely rewritten? Did  Mr Polites  make the following statement? 
We have reached a point where it is as much a psychological thing as a reality - it is just not working. 
Did  Mr Polites  also accuse the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of ineptitude in handling some cases, quoting examples of the Commission actually causing strikes by refusing to listen to submissions by employers and unions? In the event of the Government's amending the Conciliation and Arbitration Act will it pay due regard to  Mr Polites  criticism of the performance of the Arbitration Commission? 
McMAHON MINISTRY 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Is it true, as reported in the last issue of the 'Sunday Australian', that, despite the fact that the Commonwealth Office of the Environment was created 6 months ago, it has no staff? Is it true also that only 4 positions have been established in the Office and that they will not be filled for several weeks? If the answer to these questions is in the affirmative, are we to assume that the Government has in mind for the Office of the Environment a purely decorative rather than a practical role? 
As I understand the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who has just resumed his seat, he suggests that there is a difference of opinion among the world's experts as to whether there is in fact a population problem. In reply to the experts cited by  Senator Murphy  the only expert whom  Senator Greenwood  relied upon was Professor Colin Clark. I also read the apologia by Professor Clark in this morning's 'Sydney Morning Herald'. I am familiar with the arguments which Professor Clark has advanced against the thesis of Professor Ehrlich. But I make bold to suggest that  Senator Greenwood  did not himself see the programme on television in which Professor Clark had every opportunity to advance his arguments against those of Professor Ehrlich and was left, in the view of anybody who saw the debate, open mouthed and speechless. There is no doubt in the mind of anybody who witnessed that debate - it was shown twice on television - that Professor Ehrlich left Professor Clark for dead. The Opposition has not launched this debate in any narrow party political spirit in order to put the blame on any particular party or individual for the present plight of the world. Our aim is to bring this great debate as to whether this planet is heading for some sort of disaster, as suggested by ecologists like Professor Ehrlich, and whether it is a fact that this planet has a future at all, into one of the places where such a debate should take place, that is, in the national Parliament. 
Sometimes there are indications that the Government of this country is aware of a population problem in relation to Australia. That is evidenced by such actions as the appointment in November last year of a distinguished demographer named Professor Borrie who was charged with investigating the desirable future population levels for Australia. This was announced by  Mr Lynch  who was then Minister for Immigration. It is true that we were warned that Professor Borrie's inquiries would take several years to complete, but on other occasions we find responsible spokesmen for the Government reiterating the old 'populate or perish' cliches. For instance,  Mr Snedden  stated in December 1969 that large scale migration was necessary to bring Australia's population to 25 million in 30 years. It may or may not be right that it is desirable for us to have such a population, but I suggest that the time is past when we can pluck such figures out of the air. We need expert advice, and this is tacitly admitted in the appointment of Professor Borrie to come up with expert advice on this question. 
We certainly do not discredit an inquiry into this problem by sneering at Malthus who, I suggest, has been proved belatedly to be correct. But it is certainly appalling when we get a reaction such as we had in the Parliament last week from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to a question which was put to him by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  The Prime Minister was asked to let us have his thoughts on the propositions that had been advanced by Professor Ehrlich. The Prime Minister stated that he could well remember in his very early days at university, which one must assume were 30 or 40 years ago. when he was studying economics, that there were many other people who had made similar forecasts to that of Professor Ehrlich and had been proved wrong, just as the Attorney-General suggests that Malthus has been proved wrong. lt has been precisely during these last 30 or 40 years that the problem we are discussing today has assumed the proportions which lead us to consider that it is of the dimensions to require a debate in this place. 

 Mr McMahon went on to say that he knew thai Australia could provide better living standards for a population vastly larger than IS million, and he added in his inimitable political style: 'provided only that the Liberal-Country Party coalition remains in government'. The reaction of the scientists to this statement of  Mr McMahon  was significant. For instance, the secretary of the Society for Social Responsibility in Science claimed that this statement dramatically illustrates the Federal Government's apparent total lack of awareness of the world crisis resulting from the population explosion. 1 prefer the reaction of  Mr Lynch  to this problem, that is, one of humility, one of wanting to know what are the dimensions of the problem, and of appointing experts to let us know what the problem is. I prefer to listen to the real experts of whom Professor Ehrlich is one of the foremost. I remind the Senate that opposition speakers alone seem to be referring to the experts. All we hear from the other side of the chamber is that there is a division of opinion. We would like to have been favoured with some authority for the opinions that weigh against the thesis that we are attempting to develop. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. By way of preface, I refer to a promise made by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  on 8th September 1970 to introduce legislation regulating the conduct of the general insurance industry and to a statement made in the Senate by the Leader of the Government on 20th May last in response to a question from me to the effect that it was hoped that legislation would be ready for introduction during the Budget session. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the comments of  Mr Daryl  Dawson, the inspector of the affairs of the defunct East Australian Insurance Co. Ltd that the provisions of the Victorian Insurance Act were completely inadequate to afford any reasonable protection to policy holders who deal with a newly established insurance company involved in the comprehensive insurance of motor vehicles? Further, has the Minister read  Mr Dawson's  opinion that this is, for constitutional reasons, a problem which is probably more appropriately the responsibility of the Commonwealth than of the States? Can we expect the promised Commonwealth legislation regulating the insurance industry to be introduced during this session? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, I remember the generality of the statement which I made in May. Currently I have rend certain items in the Press. I think that the 3 questions which the honourable senator poses should be referred to the Prime Minister, particularly the question as to proposed legislation. I am not in a position to give an answer here. I shall certainly have the question processed without delay. 1 hope to obtain an early reply. 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation recently visited the Townsville Airport? If so, was his aesthetic sense in any way affronted by its stark  treelessness?  In view of the fact that last week was Plant a Tree Week  in  Queensland, will the Minister consider arranging for the planting of a few trees in the environs of the Townsville Airport and air base? 
In the Committee stage of the debate on this Bill the Opposition will be moving the amendments which I understand are being circulated now. At this stage I wish to deal with certain general matters raised in the Minister's sec- ond reading speech. Debates on subjects dealing with the defence of the country are not often conducted on a very high level in this Parliament, but I trust that tonight's debate will be an exception and that the Senate will not become bogged down in a contest in patriotism. 
The real question that we are called upon to discuss is this: What is the best method of securing the defence of Australia? Since it is so much part of the stock in trade of the Government to attempt to depict honourable senators on this side of the chamber as being uninterested in the defence of Australia, I think that by way of preamble it might be appropriate for me to cite briefly the leading features of the Opposition's policy on the defence of Australia. The policy recently brought up to date at the Launceston conference of the Australian Labor Party makes the following main points: 
Australia's national policy must be to ensure her territorial security, the security of her overseas trade and her peaceful development as an independent nation. 
All defence policy rests ultimately upon the possible deployment of the armed forces. Labor's policy is to provide a strong regular and citizen defence force which can be rapidly and efficiently mobilised in time of need. 
To these ends, the regular forces must be maintained at viable levels whilst the citizen forces must be maintained as an essential force and as  a  means for training those with the wider skills required for general mobilisation. 
The Australian Labor Party has always considered that the conditions of the armed forces are among the most important features in securing the kind of defence force that we have in mind. Therefore our policy statement goes on in this way: 
Recognising that service in the regular forces constitutes one of the nation's essential occupations, and insisting upon the highest of professional standards, Labor asserts that full and continuing attention must be paid to all aspects of conditions of service in order to attract and to retain an all-volunteer army and other services. 
Conditions of service of members must maintain parity with the conditions of civilians of the same age and qualifications and must allow for the inherent disadvantages and special requirements of the profession of arms. 
Labor's attitude is summed up as follows: 
All forces should be made up of volunteers and conscription as such shall be abolished. In the national interest, however, the right must be retained to raise  a  national service force should the security of Australia be threatened. 
It is part of the stock in trade of the Liberal-Country Party Government to suggest that Australia lives in a state of per,manent unchanging threat of involvement in a war of survival. Even when this is not stated explicitly, it is implicit in the Government's unceasing propaganda designed to show that the Australian Labor Party is not really interested in the defence of Australia. But in considering this Bill what we have to ask is whether at present there is any discernible threat to our security which would warrant a continuation of conscription as a means of recruiting our armed forces. 
In recent years we have had some ideas expressed on this question by none other than the ex-Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  who has assured us that there is no real discernible threat to our country for a period of 10 years? He considered that it was reasonable to assume that for the next 10 years Australia would not face any threat to its security. But we do not have to rely only on  Mr Gorton's  say-so; there is also even more expert opinion and analysis of the situation available to us in the person of Professor Michael Howard. To establish the credentials of this man let me state that he is an English authority on modern warfare. He is a former professor of war studies at Kings College, London, and is now a fellow in higher defence studies at All Souls College, Oxford. He is also a member of the Council of the Institute of Strategic Studies. He has been in Australia for the past 3 months on a Commonwealth scholarship and he gave an address, which I hope that many others besides myself in this chamber were fortunate enough to hear on the ABC's 'Guest of Honour' programme last Sunday night 
I do not intend to read out all that Professor Howard said but just to quote the salient points. First he pointed out that Australia at present lives in circumstances that are comparatively new to it in the matter of defence with the disappearance of the British presence from this area, with the impending withdrawal of United States forces from South East Asia and, of course, with the shock of  President  Nixon's reversal of previous American attitudes towards China. He said that this might excuse some disorientation and confusion in Australia as to her position in the world and it might encourage some to retreat into a splendid isolation or encourage others to believe that we should build ourselves up into what he describes as a mini-super-power' with a formidable fleet and with the option of making her own nuclear weapons. But in the opinion of Professor Howard, neither of these seems to be particularly appropriate. 
The Professor remarked on something which must strike any rational observer of the Australian scene, that is, the irrational attitudes which persist in this country and which, in our view, are actively fostered by the government. That is what the Professor describes as the lingering belief that Australia lies under some kind of peculiar threat - red, yellow or brown, or a combination of all 3. Admittedly they, he says, whoever 'they' are, are a long way away, but it is believed that there are an awful lot of them and one day they will come down and take over. This is the popular fallacy which I make bold to suggest resides in the breasts of many misguided average Australians. I have also heard it expressed obliquely - sometimes . directly - by members of this chamber. The Professor suggests that we dissect this fantasy, and he proceeds to do so. He asks who are the 'they' whom we are always told to regard as the bogeymen who may disturb our way of life. He says that for some it is the Indonesians, who are certainly very numerous and comparatively close, but how many decades must pass before that inchoate society can develop a political, administrative and social system to enable it to quality as a serious power? The Professor proceeds to dismiss Indonesia as constituting any sort of threat in the foreseeable future. Who else, he asks. The Russians, of course, and the Chinese, and though people say this only sotto voce, an aggressive and dominating Japan. The Professor said: 
As for this last fear, it is hard to see what Japan could possibly gain by military pressures on Australia that she cannot get by economic; and as for the first 2, Australia is for them an utterly remote country which must figure - if indeed it figures at all - at the bottom of a long list of priorities. 

 His conclusion is that a serious threat from any major power would bring other major powers to Australia's support, and he added: 
If it did nol, then I am tempted to suggest  that  so total a collapse of Australian diplomacy would deserve all the consequences that it got. 
He said that the real defence problem of Australia was that it did not have a defence problem, that there was not at present a single cloud on the horizon that seriously threatened Australia's security. It is true that he goes on to say that such a threat could develop relatively quickly, but he believes that Australia's armed forces are likely to be presented with acute problems of recruitment, of training, of equipment and of morale. He goes on to say that if they did not retain a capacity for versatile and effective performance in the face of totally unexpected challenges, and a well educated high command capable of foreseeing and responding to the challenges which may face it in a predictably unstable international world scene, the Australian people may one day have cause to regret bitterly their reluctance to keep up with their insurance premiums. In other words, the view that Professor Howard fakes of Australia's situation is that we face no discernible threat, that we do obviously need armed forces which are well equipped and mobile, and that we should keep our eye on developments in the area. But he makes no mention of conscription being necessary. He does not see any need for large forces. I have referred to the section in which he debunks the notion that we should try to become a sort of minisuperpower.   
 No doubt  Senator Little  will be advocating later that we should joint the nuclear club. We await with interest his suggestion that we should become a mini-super-power. This, I suggest to honourable senators, is the context in which we should examine Australia's defence needs in the time ahead of us. We believe in a rational level of preparedness, but not in fostering an atmosphere of hysteria or yellow perils. Nor do we believe in scaring the electorate for cynical political purposes, which I suggest is often done, and especially often done by the Party on whose behalf we heard the last few interjections. I would suggest that, with no discernible threat, conscription is totally unnecessary at this stage of our history. 
In case it is suggested - of course, it has been suggested - that Professor Howard is not to be taken seriously and in case it is suggested that the estimate of our situation by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  is not to be taken seriously, let us look to the second reading speech of the Minister on this Bill. If there is a discernible crisis it is not likely that he would be advocating a change in the present system of conscription, which would have the effect of almost immediately reducing the level of our armed forces by 4,000 men. That is hardly a reaction to a crisis or to imminent peril. What the Minister said was: 
And while it is now judged thai the full-time strength of the Army can be reduced by some 10 per cent by reducing the period of full-time national service, national servicemen will still represent some 30 per cent of the total Army manpower, 12,000 out of 40,000. 
So that under this Bill the present strength of the Army will be reduced from 44,000 to 40,000, of whom 28,000 will be volunteers and 12,000 will be conscripts. Under the amendment which the Australian Labor Party proposes to move at a later stage in this debate the armed forces would be immediately reduced to 28,000 instead of the 40,000 which has been suggested by the Government. Even if the number of volunteers cannot be increased - I will be submitting that with a proper effort and with proper conditions the number could be greatly increased - with no crisis looming, as has been admitted by the Minister, as has been admitted by  Mr Gorton  and as has been pointed out so eloquently by Professor Howard, what additional safety is it suggested this country would attain by having 40.000 men in the Army instead of 28,000? 
Of course, that is only part of the story. The Labor Party submits that with any sort of an effort many more volunteers could be raised than have been raised in the past. In this regard I would like to refer briefly to the findings of the Gates Commission in the United States of America, lt will be recalled that this Commission was set up at the request of the 

 President of the United States of America in order to determine whether that country could dispense with the draft and raise an all-volunteer army. It was under the chairmanship of Thomas Gales, a former Secretary of Defence. In considering the question in detail the Gates Commission looked at the situation in other countries. It was advanced to this Commission that the experience of Australia was all against the elimination of conscription, that Australia had been forced to rely on a conscript army and that the United States should do the same thing. In passing the Gates Commission made these observations: 
Some have cited the Australian decision to return to a draft as evidence that an all-volunteer force is not feasible for the United States There are several' reasons why this argument by analogy is inappropriate. First, the Australians have not made a concerted effort to attract additional recruits on a voluntary basis. Once 'he decision was made to use conscription to raise force levels, no serious effort was made to increase voluntary enlistments either by raising pay or redoubling recruiting efforts. Second, the Australian economy is heavily unionised and apprenticeship programmes requiring 4 or more years deplete the pool of men available for military service. Third, Australia has enjoyed a rapid growth in its economy (the unemployment rate is about 1 per cent)- 
Of course, that figure is a little out. of date -  which makes civilian jobs relatively more attractive than military service. Finally- 
And this is the most important point of all-  civilian earnings significantly exceed military pay rates. Civilians receive overtime and other supplementary compensation in excess of the common wage rates set by the government for both the military and the civilian economy. 
The Australians could have expanded the size of the Armed Forces on a voluntary basis by raising pay and reorganising recruiting. 
Nothing better illustrates the attitude of the Government towards the possibility of a volunteer army than its attitude towards rates of pay. It was only at the persistent nudging of the Opposition in the other place and the threat of a revolt by its own back benchers that the Government finally consented to set up a Committee of Inquiry into the Financial Terms and Conditions of Service Employment - the Kerr Committee - which has been and still is inquiring into the appropriate rates of pay for the armed forces. Now that the Kerr Committee has come up with recommendations which will make the rates of pay in the Armed Forces much more attractive than they have been,  I  suggest that we can expect a far greater response from volunteers than we have had in the past. Of course, if honourable senators do not like my prediction as to the likely effects of this increase in rates of pay, 1 would be prepared to rely on the opinion of a wellknown defence spokesman for the Liberal Party. I refer to none other than the honourable member for La Trobe,  Mr Jess,  who in the debate in the other place on this Bill made the following observation:   . . I think it should be and as I am hoping  it  wm be, (here may be an accelerated rate of recruitment into the Services. 
He was speaking in the context of the increased rates of pay recommended by the Kerr Committee. He went on to say: 
It may be possible, if threats do not occur and if the situation surrounding does not deteriorate, that a volunteer army can be maintained in the vicinity of 40,000 members.  1 am not being carried away in suggesting that that may be possible under the new conditions created by the Kerr Committee's recommendation's. An unfortunate stimulus to recruitment also may be supplied by other policies of the Government which are, for instance, creating an increasing pool of unemployment in the countryside and, if one may believe the signs, soon will also create one in the cities. I hope that we will not have to rely on that pool in order to increase the possibility of raising a volunteer force. But 1 believe that, even along the lines  I  have suggested and in accordance with the prediction of  Mr Jess,  we can confidently expect that with an increase in the rates of pay, as recommended by the Kerr Committee, it will be possible to obtain, and in a reasonably short period of time, a strength in the armed forces which is the same or roughly the same as that which the Minister suggested in his second reading speech was sufficient in the present circumstances, that is, 40,000 men. It is, of course, interesting to point out that the Minister admitted in his speech that even under the adverse revruiting conditions we have had in recent years and even with the Government not trying to get together a volunteer force, there has been a steady increase of roughly 1,000 a year in the number of volunteers since conscription was introduced in 1964. 
In  our present situation and in a context of relative security, always with an eye to the fact that security does not necessarily last forever, 1 think it is pertinent to examine what kind of an array we should be training.  I  suggest that the nucleus on which we should be concentrating is a nucleus of officers and non-commissioned officers - that is, people who will be able to train the flood of people upon whom we would have to call in an emergency in order to get a really large force  in  the field if it came to a situation in which the country was really threatened. Troops can be trained in a relatively short time as long as we have this officer and NCO cadre ready to go into action to train them. Surely in our present situation it is much more sensible to spend more money on equipment - if necessary, on tanks, artillery, etc - so that we may have it available to equip a couple of divisions rather than the one division which,  I  suggest, would be about as much as we could put into action in our present state of preparedness. If we had available equipment for a quick expansion of an army in an emergency and if we had officers and NCOs already trained we would be more readily able to put a larger force into the field than if we spent money and effort, as we. are doing at present, just in collecting troops. 
I  suggest that another measure which might be taken in order to step up enlistment in a volunteer army would be if the Army were to adopt more realistic selection standards. 1 recall that during question time in this place recently a question was asked by,  I  think,  Senator McAuliffe  of the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson.  Senator McAuliffe  drew the attention of the Leader of the Government to what he considered to be some kind of contradiction between the Government's national fitness hopes and standards and the large number of people who were rejected for service in the Army.  I  recall the lengthy answer given by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson who pointed out that it was a mistake to consider a man unfit merely because he was rejected by the Army. He pointed out that he had some experience in this regard. Although he considered himself a reasonably fit man he was rejected for war service. He later overcame that difficulty and, as we know, he served with distinction. 

 Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson was quick to deny that rejection for the Army did connote genuine unfitness. I suggest that if we dispense with conscription, as I believe we must in the interests of the morale of this country, if we rely on the pay rises which are imminent in the Kerr Committee's recommendations and if we adopt realistic rather than extravagant perfectionist standards of physical fitness, we can reasonably expect to get in a very short time a volunteer army of the size which the Minister has said is necessary at present, even if we admit that in the present situation we do need that many troops. 
I suggest that in this debate the Government is being insincere and pig-headed. The Minister stated categorically that the introduction of conscription into this country bad nothing to do with the Vietnam war. He said: 
National Service was not introduced because of Vietnam, lt was introduced in November 1964 but national servicemen were not sent to Vietnam until 1966. 
Let us have a close look at that claim. The fact is that the first Australian training team was sent to Vietnam in 1962. In 1964 the Royal Australian Air Force Caribou flight was added to Australia's commitment to Vietnam. Conscription was introduced in November 1964. It is true, as the Minister stated, that no conscripts were sent there until 1966. What happened between those dates? Firstly, on 29th April 1965 the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, announced that a battalion would be sent to Vietnam. As we now know, this was the time when our rulers were busy securing a request from the Vietnamese Government of the day for us to send those forces there. There can be no doubt that throughout this period the Government of the United States of America was applying considerable pressure on the Australian Government to send more forces to Vietnam to provide a facade of respectability to the American claim that what it was doing in Vietnam was saving the free world from the Communist hordes. To suggest that the introduction of conscription had nothing to do with the Vietnamese conflict is, in my view, the sheerest hypocrisy. 
It is true that national servicemen were not sent there until 1966 and it is true also that only one-third of the national servicemen were sent to Vietnam, but we must see that claim against the whole background of what the Government had in mind at the time. Obviously it was not good politics to have too many draftees being killed in Vietnam, but obviously it was necessary to build up the army if the Government was already undertaking commitments, about which the Australian people were told nothing, to send more troops to Vietnam. I suggest that it is a legitimate inference from the conduct of this Government in relation to Vietnam that it always had in mind to send more troops to Vietnam than it in fact sent and the only thing that prevented it from deploying an even greater force in Vietnam was the great protest movement which built up in this country. That is also the reason why the Government kept to a comparatively low proportion the number of national servicemen sent to Vietnam. 
It is obvious, I believe, that conscription and Vietnam are inextricably related; yet the Minister had the effrontery to tell us that the fact that we are now pulling out of Vietnam does not allow us to end conscription. So we have this picture: Without telling us that conscription was introduced in order that the Government could send troops to Vietnam, now with the Vietnam war winding down the Government cannot and is not prepared to admit that the need for conscription has ended. Having introduced conscription because of an unacknowledged intention to get more deeply involved in Vietnam, without admitting it to the Australian people, this Government cannot now admit that the end of our commitment in Vietnam ends the need for conscription. 1 believe that these arguments demonstrate that conscription in this country is, to put it at its very lowest, unnecessary in the present context of Australia's position in the world. But there are many greater reasons why it should be abandoned now. Conscription has proved to be discriminatory against a section of the population. It has been one of the most divisive issues in our history. It has set generation against generation and it has contributed to the alienation of our youth. I suggest that the entire history of this country shows that there is no reluctance on the part of the youth of this country to flock voluntarily to the Army when there is a real demonstrable emergency, when this country is genuinely threatened and when there is a cause which the young people of this country believe is worth fighting for. I have only to point to the record of the youth of this country at the time of the last war. I ask honourable senators especially those who point the finger contemptuously at the youth who will not go to Vietnam and who do not want to be conscripted and say: 'How can you get these people into the Army unless you make them go into the Army?', to cast their minds back to the 1930s, especially to the scene in England. Some honourable senators may remember a famous debate which took place at Oxford University when the well known Oxford resolution was carried. It was to the effect that this House will refuse to die or fight for King and country. 
That, I think, is a fanciful comment, even from a man like Churchill, on what happened. The war would have broken out whether that resolution  ot  any number of such resolutions had been carried. It had nothing to do with it, with all respect to Churchill. But these young men, who were like the young men we have around us today and who were pilloried by the likes of Churchill and all the conservatives of the country, including the Mosleys, the Chamberlains and the people who wanted to make a deal with Hitler, were the very men who provided the nucleus of the Spitfire pilots when England was really under threat. I suggest to those who decry the youth of this country that if there were a genuine threat to this country, instead of a phoney threat, instead of an artificial scare designed to keep a certain government in office or instead of involvement in a completely immoral and singularly unsuccessful war which has no appeal whatsoever to idealistic youth, there would be no problem of volunteers at alt. In the present situation there is absolutely no justification and no warrant for the continuation of conscription. It is time that conscription, which, as I said previously, is inextricably related to the Vietnam war, was brought to an end. There was no justification for its birth and its death will not be lamented. 
 I move: 
Leave out all words after the word 'deemed', insert 'to end on that date'. 
Briefly, the effect of the amendment would be to end the sentence of those people at present serving a term of imprisonment as at the commencement of this Act. 
I ask  whether the Attorney-General's attention has been drawn to a letter in this morning's 'Australian' by a well known conservative academic,  Dr Frank  Knopfelmacher, in which he refers to the recent 'spectacular and futile' police operation on the University of Melbourne campus and in which he states: 
There arc in my view 2 hypotheses which may explain this act for which the Attorney-General,  Mr Greenwood,  bears direct personal responsibility. 
One is total personal incompetence. The other is political 'Machiavellianism' of an infantile kind - the desire to manufacture a political stunt in the interest of a political party in decline, carried out with reckless disregard for the fortunes of a major Australian university. 
Does the Attorney-General agree with  Dr Knopfelmacher's  conclusion that the chief result of the police operation has been to provide 'an imported, ineffectual "radical" leadership' - that is at the University - 'virtually overnight with a mass following and helped to "radicalise" students throughout the country'? 
The amendment which I moved prior to the suspension of the sitting would, if carried, have the effect of repealing the principal Act as from 1st January 1972. This, of course, raises the question of the whole philosophy of the Act. 1 am afraid that I have to say that the appeal that I made at the outset of my remarks in the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill fell on deaf ears. I had expressed the hope that the level of debate would be rather higher than it usually is when defence matters are being discussed. However, I am afraid we were treated to the familiar stuff about yellow perils and what would have happened to us if the PKI had won in Indonesia in 1965. In fact at several stages of the debate I felt that the appropriate thing for the Government to do was to order immediate total mobilisation. I felt that we senators and members of the House of Representatives should be out on the lawn drilling in readiness for the imminent invasion with which we were threatened. 
I would like to reaffirm very briefly the points I made in respect of the proposition that conscription should be abolished. There is no discernible threat. This statement is supported by the expert 1 quoted, Professor Michael Howard. An attempt was made by honourable senators on the Government side to denigrate this authority but nobody managed to cut down the statements he made. Certainly nobody was able to suggest that there flowed from any of his observations of our condition any suggestion that we needed conscription in this country. This analysis of our situation is supported by the statement of the exPrime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  that there is no discernible threat facing this country for the next 10 years. None of the speakers on the Government side appeared to be prepared to grapple with this comment. We must assume that they find it too embarrassing even to mention the name of the man who was their leader until so recently. 
I also pointed to the fact that to suggest that we are any more adequately protected by having 40,000 men than 28,000 men is sheer fantasy. I pointed out also that no serious attempt had been made by this Government to make the volunteer system workable. I referred to the prospects of increased recruitment in the wake of the improved pay and conditions recomended by the Kerr Committee. I cited in support of this proposition the statement of a well known and not very radical supporter of the Government in another place, the honourable member for La Trobe,  Mr Jess.  I also pointed out that this question of conscription is inextricably bound up with the question of the war in Vietnam. I referred to the hypocrisy of the Government in being unwilling to admit that now that the Vietnam commitment is drawing to a close any justification which ever did exist for conscription has ceased to exist. 
After listening to  Senator Carrick,  who was the principal contributor from the Government side of the chamber, I am persuaded that the real reason why the Government might want to continue conscription is that it has in mind further adventures of the Vietnam type. In this regard I would like to refer briefly to a statement to this effect by  Senator Carrick,  when he was at his most virtuous, in respect of the tasks which this Government and this country should take upon itself. He stated: 
If we want to have the respect of the nations of South East Asia we must be willing to go to their assistance when an independent sovereign state is invaded, as we have done. 
I interjected and said: 'Any one of them?'  Senator Carrick  replied: 
Yes, indeed. When there is aggression from without it is our duty to go to their assistance. 
Perhaps this would cover an invasion of China by Russia. Does the honourable senator suggest that because one country in our region invades another it is incumbent upon us to give assistance no matter what the real politics of the matter, no matter what the problem involved and no matter what the relative strength of the contending parties might be. He may say, of course, that that area is not in South East Asia and that his proposition was limited to South East Asia. But why should we stop there if we want to be the boy scouts of the Pacific? What about the case of a war between Laos and Cambodia; or between Malaysia and the Philippines; or between Indonesia and Thailand? All of these are possibilities in the uncertain world depicted for us by the Government, and where does it stop? Perhaps this is the reason why the Government considers it necessary to maintain conscription. But, of course, once more Government supporters are out of step with their ex-leader who, in one of his memorable contributions to the journalism of this country, pointed out that in his defence policy he did not want Australia's young men dying in jungles and swamps because of possible Balkan-like quarrels which he felt were the responsibility of the local government. 
No, he has not advocated that national service should cease but be has a totally different picture of the apocalyptic fate that awaits this country from that of the people on the other side of this House. If you were not here- 
I do not. I suggest that if  Senator Sim  wants to comment on anything I have said he at least should be in the chamber to hear everything I have said. What I am talking about is the different vision of our situation presented by the people who have spoken here to that of their former more realistic leader. Presumably they deposed him, among other reasons, because he had a more realistic view of our situation than appears from the fantastic statements we have heard in this debate from the spokesmen in favour of conscription. 
I now come to the most glaring misconception, to put it no higher than that, of  Senator Carrick  when he suggested that honourable senators on this side of the House and all of those who have opposed conscription and the involvement in Vietnam over the recent years have been living some sort of a lie by suggesting that men who are subject to the draft are subject also to being involved in a war overseas in which they do not believe.  Senator Carrick  made great play of the proposition that this really was not what they were confronted with. He pointed out that a man, on being called upon to register, could, if he chose, opt for service in the Citizen Military Forces. According to  Senator Carrick,  that freed him from any obligation cfr any possibility of being involved in an overseas war. That statement was disproved by speakers from this side of the chamber, by  Senator Cavanagh  and by  Senator Cant.  There has been plenty of opportunity since then for the pundits on the Government ride, including  Senator Sim,  to show that this was false. That course also was open to  Senator Wright,  the Minister for Works, who introduced this legislation. But have wc heard anything from any of them in rebuttal of that proposition? The fact is that the Defence Act clearly states that a member of the military forces can be required to serve here or abroad. Is that a fact or is it not a fact? 1 am greeted by a deafening silence on that point. 
I will present my case in my own time and in my own order. 
I will come to it in my own order. When we are considering the Hobson's choice that confronts our 2-year-olds- 
 I mean 20-year-olds. Two-year-olds probably would be conscripted under your Government's scheme,  Senator Sim.  The choice is that 20-year-olds facing the possibility of conscription can opt to serve for 5 years part time in the Citizen Military Forces but they can still be sent overseas to a war which they may consider criminal. When this was stated by honourable senators from the Opposition side of the chamber in the debate on the second reading there were gasps of indignation from the Government side that this should be resented in any way by 20-year-olds. But let us look at the figures. The Minister has stated that 12,000 people who were called up for national service had opted to serve in the Citizen Military Forces as at 30th June 1971. An official document I saw today, the Defence report for 1971, states that as at 30th June 1971 there were 29,364 personnel regularly serving in the Citizen 
Military Forces. So that according to my arithmetic there are only about 17,000 other citizens of all ages in Australia who consider it their duty to be performing some sort of military service at this stage. What then becomes of  Senator Carrick's  other great democratic principles which he expressed in terms I will quote? I must confess that I rubbed my eyes when I heard him say it.  His  words are enshrined in Hansard. He was talking about the 2 basic principles of democracy, the first one which does not concern us at the moment. He described the second principle in this way: i  add as a supplement that no person has the right to ask more public burden of his neighbour than he is willing to bear himself. 
What a mealy-mouthed hypocrisy that must appear to be to our 20-year olds. Every Australian, except the 17,000 whom I have mentioned and who are in the Citizen Military Forces, is asking more of a public burden of these 20-year olds. I submit that conscription was noi justified in 1964 and it is even less justified today now that the Vietnam war is coming to a close, and it should be scrapped immediately. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - No.  Senator. 
Already we have come a long way from the proposition of  Senator Carrick  that no draftee is in peril of being sent to a foreign war in which he does not believe. What  Senator Greenwood  has said just now illustrates the classic attitude of the lawyer in a corner and that is: When in a corner talk your head off. Nothing that he has said in citing sections 50, 50A and 50C of the Defence Act detracts one iota from the proposition that I have put forward tonight, and which  Senator Cavanagh  also has put forward. I have heard nothing from honourable senators on the other side of the chamber that would lead me to trust the judgment of these people about what constituted a state of emergency. They live in a state of permanent hysteria. They think that we are about to be engulfed by yellow hordes every moment. The fact is that under these sections of the Act, if the Government has the numbers in the Parliament, it can at any moment declare a state of emergency and any member of the Military Forces can be required to serve anywhere in the world. 
I am talking about what the law is,  Senator Sim.  I can quite appreciate your difficulty in following this, but the fact is that, by  Senator Greenwood's  own admission, a government which has the numbers and which decides to declare a state of emergency can send people anywhere in the world to fight in a war which they may not believe in, and nothing that  Senator Greenwood  says will get away from that fact. That is the law. We are not concerned with that proposition; this is not the way we would implement it. I do not trust these people, from what I have heard from them in this debate, to be the judges of what is a state of emergency. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: "6a. Sections 29a, 29b, 29c, 29ca and 29d of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections inserted in their stead: 29a.  -  (1.) A person whose conscientious beliefs do not allow him to engage in military service, either generally or while particular circumstances (including a particular war or particular warlike operations) exist, is so long as he holds those beliefs, exempt from liability to render service under this Act. (2.) For the purposes of this section, a conscientious belief is a conscientious belief whether the ground of the belief is or is not of a religious character and whether the belief is or is not part of the doctrines of a religion. "29b.  -  (1.) The question whether a person is, by virtue of sub-section (1.) of the last preceding section, exempt from liability to render service under this Act shall be heard and determined by a Commissioner for Conscientious Objectors upon application made in accordance with the regulations. (2.) Where an application has been made under the last preceding sub-section in relation to a person in relation to whom no previous application has been made under that sub-section, then, until the hearing and determination of the application bya Commissioner and, if an appeal is brought from the decision of the Commissioner, until the hearing and determination of the appeal - 
the person shall be deemed for the purposes of this Act other than sub-section (5.) of section thirty-five b to be exempt from liability to render service under this Act; 
any notice under Part III. requiring him to attend and submit himself for an examination for the purpose of determining his physical or mental fitness or capacity for service under this Act is of no effect; and 
if he is a national serviceman - he shall be granted leave without pay. (3.) The parties at the hearing of an application in relation to a person under sub-section (1.) of this section are the person and the Minister. "(4.) In determining an application under subsection (1.) of this section in relation to a person, a Commissioner shall have regard to all relevant matters including - 
the circumstances in which the person claims to have formed his beliefs and to have continued to hold those beliefs; 
the period during which the person claims to have held his beliefs; and 
the extent to which the person's evidence as  to  his beliefs is corroborated, but the Commissioner may if he thinks fit, accept the evidence of the person whether it is corroborated or not. "(5.) In this section, "Commissioner" means a Commissioner for Conscientious Objectors holding' office under the next succeeding section. 29c. - (1.) For the purposes of this Act, the Governor-General shall - 
in respect of each State - appoint a person to be the Commissioner for Conscientious Objectors for that State; and 
in respect of each Territory - appoint a person to be the Commissioner for Conscientious Objectors for that Territory. (2.) A person is not eligible for appointment as the Commissioner for a State or Territory unless he is - 
a Judge of the Supreme Court of that State or Territory; or 
a Judge of a District Court or County Court of that State or Territory or, if. there is no such Court in that State or Territory, a barrister or solicitor of the Supreme Court of that State or Territory of not less than ten years' standing. (3.) A person appointed to be a Commissioner holds office for such period (not exceeding seven years) as is specified in the instrument of his appointment, but is eligible for re-appointment. (4.) A person appointed as a Commissioner shall be paid remuneration at such rate (if any) as the Governor-General determines, but the rate shall not be diminished during his term of office.  (5.) A Commissioner shall be paid such allowances (if any) in respect of travelling expenses as the Minister determines. (6.) A Commissioner shall, before proceeding to discharge the duties of his office, take an oath or make an affirmation as prescribed. (7.) A Commissioner may resign his office by writing signed by him and delivered to the Governor-General. (8.) The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the practice and procedure in relation to the performance by Commissioners of functions under this Act, including the summoning of witnesses, the production of documents, : he taking of evidence on oath or affirmation, the administering of oaths or affirmations, the payment of expenses of witnesses and the protection and immunity of Commissioners, of barristers and solicitors appearing before Commisioners and of witnesses. 29D.- (1.) Where a Commissioner for Conscientious Objectors for a State or Territory has given a decision on an application under section twenty-nine  B  of this Act, a party to the application may appeal from that decision to the Supreme Court of that State or Territory constituted by not less than three Judges. (2.) The Court in which an appeal under this section is instituted - 
shall hear and determine the appeal; 
may affirm, vary or set aside the decision of the Commissioner; 
may give such judgment, or make such order, as in all the circumstances it thinks fit, or refuse to make an order; and 
may remit the case for rehearing and determination, either with or without the hearing of further evidence, by the Commissioner. (3.) A decision of a Court on an appeal under this section is final and conclusive except so far as an appeal may be brought to the High Court by leave of the High Court'.". 
Briefly, the amendment suggests that there should be a right of conscientious objection to a particular war instead of. as exists at present, to any kind of militaryservice. It also provides that a commissioner for conscientious objectors be appointed in each State instead of the matter being decided by a court of summary jurisdiction as it is at present. The amendment also provides for an appeal to the Supreme Court of a State or Territory. The court shall comprise 3 judges. The alteration proposed in the existing law is that there will be an appeal as of right instead of the appeal being confined, as under the present Act, to a point of law, or, if more than a point of law is involved, only to cases in which leave is obtained from the Supreme Court. Of course the final appeal to the High Court is left as is provided in the Act at the present time. 
With the withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam it may be thought that this amendment is largely academic. But we would like to establish the principle of the right of a conscientious objection to a particular war. We also look to the fact that the end of our commitment  in Vietnam does not - on the indications that we have not only in this debate but also from our experience of this Government - exclude the possibility that we may be quickly embroiled in another war. A government which could, behind the backs of the people, with no formal declaration of war and with a total absence of moral, political or military justification embroil us in the Vietnam tragedy might well decide with the moral flexibility for which it is notorious to involve us in a war with, for instance. South Africa. If that were to occur some of the great defenders of apartheid on the other side of the chamber might discover the value of conscientious objection to a particular war. Though I loathe apartheid 1 could defend their right to object to being conscripted for a war in South Africa just as I object to our young men being conscripted into a war in Vietnam. 
Also we have to beware of the future wars which  Senator Carrick  evidently has in store for us. At any time any sort of a conflict of any dimension may blow up in South East Asia. From  Senator Little's  interjections I take it that he would be in favour of our intervening in a war between Russia and China. The other alteration which is proposed by this amendment is that an application for exemption on the grounds of conscientious objection would be heard by a judge instead of a magistrate. We believe that this matter is of sufficient social importance to justify a man with the status of a judge determining the matters involved. Also, we believe that there would be a likelihood of greater uniformity in decisions if a man with the status of a judge - as is proposed by this amendment - were to make decisions in these matters. We believe that if both these- 
If the honourable senator read the circulated amendment he would see that a provision is made for that position. 
If he refuses to serve and if he has exhausted all his rights - I cannot concentrate while what I called recently the 'Neanderthal  grunts' on my left persist. In reply to  Senator Webster's  interjection I remind the honourable senator that the Act with which we are confronted is not an Act created by the Labor Party. Any of the penalties which devolve upon a man who has exerted all his rights to be a conscientious objector are penalties imposed by an act which we attempted to abolish altogether. If  Senator Webster  is trying to trap me into admitting that a conscientious objector who has been unsuccessful then has to go to gaol, 1 say to him: 'Yes. In the last resort a conscientious objector who has exercised his rights under the superior provisions which we propose would, since we have been unable to abolish the Act altogether, finally have to go to gaol to the shame of this Government'. Does that satisfy the honourable senator? 
We suggest that if both these reforms are adopted there would be a more just and humane system for conscientious objectors. There would be a greater feeling of confidence in the tribunal if it were under the supervision of a man of the status of a judge rather than of a magistrate. 
I move: 
After clause 8, insert in Part II. the following new clause: 8a. Section51c of the Principal Act is repealed and the following section inserted in its stead: 51c. - (1.) Section five of the Commonwealth Prisoners Act 1967 docs not apply in relation to a person serving a term of imprisonment imposed following a conviction for an offence against section fifty-one or section fifty-one  a  of this Act. (2.) A person referred to in the last preceding sub-section shall, for the purpose of his release on parole, be treated as if his term of imprisonment had been imposed following a conviction for an offence against a law of the State where he is imprisoned . . . ' 
As time is going by and as we are anxious to complete the Bill tonight I will explain briefly the purport of the amendment. Section 51c of the National Service Act deprives people convicted of an offence against the Act of the benefit of section 4 of the Commonwealth Prisoners Act. Section 4 gives all Federal offenders, including murders, rapists and burglars the benefit of a minimum non-parole period. For example if a magistrate sentenced a man to 5 years imprisonment he may set a minimum non-parole period of 4 years which is, in effect, a way of shortening the sentence, subject to certain conditions imposed by the Commonwealth Prisoners Act. Under the National Service Act a man is deprived of that benefit. This procedure is inconsistent also because there is preserved to Federal offenders under the Commonwealth Prisoners Act the ordinary remissions for good conduct. Yet persons convicted under the National Service Act are deprived of that right which is considered to be, according to modern criminology and the practices in all States, the right of every man convicted of an offence. We believe that men convicted of an offence against this Act are in no sense to be considered more criminal than people of the type that I have named who have the benefit of this non-parole period. That is the purpose of our amendment. 
Another subsidiary aspect of the amendment is that section 5 of the Commonwealth Prisoners Act provides machinery for the implementation of this non-parole period. It is in the hands of the AttorneyGeneral who recommends to the GovernorGeneral that certain action be taken. We believe that this power should reside in the State authorities - that is, parole boards and organisations of that character - as in the case of other offenders. For that reason we commend the amendment to the Committee. We believe that by putting the implementation of this into the hands of parole boards the politics are taken out of the. matter and Federal offenders are put in the same position as other people who have been sentenced. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been Irawn to a statement reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 22nd October and attributed to  Senator Young,  in which the honourable senator is alleged to have said that there is no more racial discrimination in Rhodesia than there is in Australia? Is the Minister aware also that the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  before the 1969 election, promised that all discriminatory laws against Aborigines would be abolished in the life of the present Parliament, and that the then Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs.  Mr Wentworth,  had his Department prepare a list of State laws discriminatory against Aborigines which comprised 6 foolscap pages, many of which laws have nol yet been repealed? Will the Minister consider sending an apology to the Rhodesian Government for the insult implicit in  Senator Young's  equation of that Government's, discriminatory laws and practices with those of Australia? 
I ask the Minister for Health: Is it a fact that the Department of Health has been repeatedly advised by the National Health and Medical Research Council that measures should be taken to encourage the increased use of low tar cigarettes as against high tar cigarettes? ls it a fact that the new voluntary code for advertising on radio and television which has applied since 1st October includes the following item, which is numbered 11: 'No claim for reduction of any ingredient from smoke of any cigarette may be included in advertising.'? 
Was this code announced by  Senator Greenwood,  when Minister for Health, on 3rd May last after discussions between State and Commonwealth health authorities, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, cigarette manufacturers and broadcasting and television services? Was this item slipped into the code by the cigarette manufacturers to prevent the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria from advertising on television to the effect that low tar cigarettes are less dangerous than high tar cigarettes? Will the Minister recommend to the Postmaster-General, as the Minister responsible for policing the voluntary code, that the item I have quoted be removed from the code? 
However, the honourable senator also referred to the exclusion from television of a certain anti-cancer advertisement. Again I will have to check on the voluntary code. My understanding, reached before I became Minister for Health, is that the advertisement was ruled out because it was pitched, not as a general advertisement against smoking in terms of the anti-cancer group, but directly to a particular company and one type of cigarette. I understand that to be the reason why the Australian Broadcasting Control Board had the advertisement excised. But I will need to check that point with the Postmaster-General's Department. I will certainly do that. The honourable senator raised a number of other matters and I will have a comprehensive reply prepared for him, in the same way that I will supply answers to honourable senators to whom I  promised  answers yesterday. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. By way of preface I refer to the recent statement by the Council of the New South Wales Bar Association condemning the alleged lack of safeguards for people called before Federal parliamentary committees. Inter alia, the Bar Council warned of the danger of personal denigration by members of such committees of witnesses appearing before them. Is it a fact that within a couple of days of the publication of the Bar Council's statement a witness appeared before the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, represented and presumably advised by the  President  of the New South Wales Bar Council,  Mr Gordon  Samuels, Q.C., and indulged in a scathing and intemperate attack on the credit of  another witness  who had appeared before the Committee a few days earlier? Does the AttorneyGeneral consider that the Bar Council's case is weakened by the association of its President with such conduct by his client? 
The Senate is  not  debating the desirability  of  all  drivers  remaining sober and avoiding road accidents in order that we would not need to have car insurance, as  Senator Marriott  seems to believe. We are discussing the unconscionable delay of the Government in introducing legislation to regulate and supervise accident insurance. 

Motor accident insurance. This debate arises largely out of an irresponsible, ill informed and even arrogant reply which the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  gave yesterday to a perfectly civil question, soberly phrased, from the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator 
Murphy), who asked what was happening to the legislation in this field. He was referring to legislation which has been promised by responsible spokesmen for the Government, including  Mr Gorton,  the previous Prime Minister, as far back as 12 months ago. 
That is instances of insurance crashes -  to which the Leader of the Opposition has referred; nor am I aware that there is a situation in this country, whereby tens of thousands of persons may have dubious insurance policies. 
We of the Opposition decided that if the Attorney-General did not know we should act to inform him. He has disclaimed responsibility for this legislation, quite correctly, but he is the Minister under whom the parliamentary draftsmen work and we would assume that if such legislation is in the offing he would be the first to know about it. In effect, the Attorney-General said: 'I do not know what the dogs have been barking for for more than 2 years'. So, quite properly, the Opposition decided that if he did not know - and perhaps some of his colleagues did not know - we would remind them of the problem in the hope that we might belatedly get some action in this important field. 
I remind honourable senators opposite that the demand for action in this field has come not only from the Opposition but also from the public and from reputable insurance companies. It has come even from Government supporters. I remind honourable senators opposite that  Mr Gorton  stated as long ago as September 1970 that he had been requested by  Mr Askin,  the Liberal Premier of New South Wales, and by  Sir Arthur  Rylah, the Acting Premier of Victoria, to introduce legislation in this field. In case any honourable senator opposite believes that somehow or other the Government was not aware of this problem, I remind the Senate that I, among others, asked questions on this matter in the Senate, the first of them in May of this year. I asked when this legislation would be introduced and I was told by  Senator 

 Sir Kenneth Anderson, the Leader of the Government in the Senate, that it had not proved practicable to introduce legislation in the insurance field during the present session but it was hoped that legislation would be ready for introduction during the Budget session. I have pointed that out in order to explain our impatience. 
When nothing was forthcoming by September, I asked another question as to when we might expect this legislation.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson replied that he could not tell me just when we could expect it but he hoped to be able to give me an early reply. We have not yet had a reply, apart from  Senator Greenwood's  disclaimer yesterday that there is any problem, and his brazen statement that to suggest there is a problem can only serve the evil purpose of undermining the confidence of policy holders. In that context this motion has been moved by the Opposition. 
Why is there this problem and anxiety? Do we need to remind the Attorney-General that there has been a series of spectacular insurance crashes over the last 12 months? Apparently we do. Because he is so ignorant of this problem I will remind him of the names of some of the insurance companies that have crashed. I refer to Insurance Associates Pty Ltd; Riverina Insurance Co. Ltd; Motor Marine and General Insurance Co. Ltd; Bonus Benefits Insurance (Underwriters) Pty Ltd; East Australian Insurance Co. Ltd; Oxford Insurance Co. Ltd; Property Accident Commercial and Executive Insurance Co. Ltd; Cosmopolitan Insurance Co. Ltd; Vehicle and General Insurance Co. (Australia) Ltd, and so on. It is not an exhaustive list but I submit that at least it adds up to a reason why  Senator Greenwood  should know that in this country tens of thousands of persons may have dubious insurance policies. 
Perhaps we must wait for action until we have a crash of the dimensions of that which involved the parent company, Vehicle and General Insurance Co. Ltd, of the Australian offshoot Vehicle and General Insurance Co. (Australia) Ltd. When the parent company failed in England earlier this year it left about 700,000 policy holders uncovered by insurance. I submit that when this debate was brought on today, the responsible attitude for  Senator Greenwood  to have taken would have been to admit the dilatoriness of the Government and to try to do something to repair the damage. But that was not his attitude.  His  answer was that in giving warning of the danger of even more insurance crashes the Opposition was making such crashes more probable and had raised the matter for cheap political advantage. Of course, this is a familiar catchcry in this country. It has been echoed by honourable senators opposite who have spoken in this debate. 
I ask  Senator Greenwood  and Government supporters generally whether  Mr Morris,  the New South Wales Liberal Minister for Transport, is trying to achieve some cheap political advantage when he accuses the Federal Government of merely toying with this problem. Is he some sort of Labor stooge? Is  Mr Askin  in the same category? Is  Sir Arthur  Rylah, who was Acting Premier of Victoria when he asked  Mr Gorton  to take action in this field, a Labor stooge? Is  Mr Cattley,  Managing Director of Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co. Ltd, some sort of Labor stooge who is trying to gain cheap political advantage in pointing to the magnitude and urgency of this problem? Is  Mr Athol  Kelly, Vice-President of the Federal Australian Automobile Chamber of Commerce, some sort of Labor spokesman? Is  Mr Lamble,  General Manager of National Roads and Motorists Association Insurance Ltd, a Labor spokesman? Is  Mr Hamer,  Liberal Chief Secretary in the Victorian Government, a Labor stooge, or is  Mr Perrott  of the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria? 
I am reading the names of prominent men in the insurance field - managers, secretaries and directors of reputable insurance companies who have said about this matter even harsher things than have been said today by members of the Opposition. These people have pointed time and time again to the urgency of this problem. If we are to believe  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Marriott  these men are all part of some irresponsible Labor conspiracy. They would have us believe that these men are Labor stirrers who are painting an alarmist picture of a imaginary problem. If Government supporters believe that proposition, they have lost even more credibility than I thought they had lost. Another alibi - one that we have heard not only from  Senator Greenwood  but also from  Senator Marriott  - is: 'It is a very complex matter to draft this legislation. It is so difficult that you cannot expect us to have done anything about it up until now.'  Senator Greenwood  was even bold enough to quote from an editorial in the 'Financial Review' in which the editorial writer of that paper suggested that it would be wrong for the Government to be stampeded into drafting hasty legislation in this matter. But when  Senator Greenwood  was questioned by an interjector he had to admit that this suggestion against stampeding had been made 15 months ago. This is hardly the pace of a stampede. 
Is 

 Senator Rae suggesting that rather than discuss the problems of 1971 we should go back to the problems of the 1940s? I know the reluctance of the Government at being dragged screaming into the 1970s but I suggest that this is the real problem. The problem is not even so much what has happened to the unfortunate policy holders who found themselves without cover in the past.  Senator Greenwood  seemed to suggest that because we could do nothing about them the urgency had gone out of the matter. What we are concerned about is to see that this does not go on happening. But we do not have to wait until we get a crash of the dimensions of the one in England to which I referred when 700,000 people suddenly found themselves without cover before the Government suddenly discovers that there is some urgency in this problem. I would like to point out also, as  Senator Murphy  has pointed out, that this Government which is so fond of emphasising its unity and contrasting it with the socalled division in our ranks- 
The 
Government spokesmen on this matter have 2 quite dissonant voices? We heard from  Senator Greenwood  yesterday and again today a claim that there is no real problem; there is nothing that he has heard about. We were doing some disservice by suggesting that there was a problem but this, as  Senator Murphy  reminded him, is not the attitude of his Prime Minister. Only the other day  Mr McMahon  admitted that there had been a delay, regretted it and said in the old strain of 'promises, promises' 'I will try to do something for you this session about it'. Where is the unity there? Perhaps  Senator Greenwood  does not speak to  Mr McMahon.  That would not be so strange. We have heard that these things do happen on the Government side these days. Of course, we had an egregious contribution from  Senator Durack,  which was echoed by  Senator Marriott,  suggesting that somehow or other we are being almost treasonable in wasting 3 hours of the Senate's time to discuss what we regard as an urgent matter. I make bold to suggest that the thousands of threatened policy holders in this country will not hold that against us if as a result of this motion we can get some action from the Government. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he is in a position to say whether he has in mind in the strengthened legislation enacting provisions, for example, with respect to monopolies and dumping, such as were to be found in the Australian Industries Preservation Act. 
The reaction of the Government to the decision of the High Court in the concrete pipes case has to be looked at in my submission against the background of the main problem confronting this country at the present time. Of course by common agreement that is the problem of galloping prices. The Government - it is not alone in this matter among governments in the world today - has not managed to come up with any sort of an answer to the problem. The Opposition does not suggest that between 7th September when the High Court gave its judgment in the concrete pipes case and today that the Government should have been able to produce a satisfactory Bill - to use the words of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  - extending and strengthening the existing legislation. We freely concede that it is a complex task to produce before Parliament a Bill which would meet what this Restrictive Trade Practices Bill is allegedly claimed to meet - the existence of practices in the business community which are detrimental to the building of competition and which, by common consent, have a very adverse effect on prices. 
I submit for the consideration of the Senate that the decision of the High Court should not have taken the Government by surprise. It is not without an array of distinguished lawyers in its ranks. I think it would be agreed among them that the decision of the High Court was expected by lawyers throughout the community who had had anything to do with constitutional problems over the years. It was common talk among lawyers that the Huddart Parker case was ripe for demolition. We must recall that the Government launched the concrete pipes case in the High Court about a year ago. It is interesting to examine now in retrospect a speech which was given by the then Attorney-General,  Mr Hughes,  in Tasmania on 10th October 1970 when he pointed to grave shortcomings in the Trade Practices Act which was then the subject of the litigation about which we are talking. The then AttorneyGeneral pointed out: 
The Act is founded upon the proposition that competition in business affairs is, generally speaking, desirable for economic and social reasons; it is also founded upon a recognition of the fact that businessmen, if left to their own devices, have a propensity to make arrangements restrictive of competition and conducive to their own convenience ar.d comfort rather than to the interests of the consuming public. While competition can be uncomfortable for those affected by it, its pressures lend to restrict costs and prices and constitute a continuing inducement to businesses to improve their efficiency. 

 Mr Hughes went on to examine at some length the shortcomings of an Act which he had had to administer during the 3 years of its life. It cannot be said that the Government was nol apprised as long ago, at least, as a year that this Act required drastic strengthening if it were to be used as an implement against the main evil of the day - constantly rising prices. Instead of giving attention to the amendment of the Act the Government has concentrated all its fire in answering the public's indignation about constantly rising prices by blaming the demands of the unions for ever-increasing rises. This has been the principal target of the Government's propaganda. The suggestion which has gone out to the world has been that the constant increase in prices and the cost of living is something which has to be laid entirely or at least almost entirely at the door of the unions. The suggestion has been put to the public that every time there is an increase of, for example, $6 a week in workers' wages that cost goes immediately and directly into price rises. Of course this is a naive economic over-simplification which has recently been exposed by, among others. Professor Nevile of the University of New South Wales who has pointed out in a recent article: 
. it is untrue to say that award wage rate rises produce corresponding price rises. 
There is certainly nol the one-for-one relationship implied by statements made by the Employers' Federation and some politicians who suggest that once the rate of growth of productivity is exceeded, a 1 per cent rise in award wage rates will cause a 1 per cent rise in prices leaving real income1; unchanged. 
If award rates increase by 1 per cent, this alone will result in a price increase of about 0.3 per cent. 
Over the  range  of  changes in  wage  rales experienced  in  Australia in recent years ...  if award  rates increase by  2  per  cent  prices  will rise  by about  0.6 per cent, if award  wages increase by  3 per  cent prices  will  rise by about  0.9 per  cent, and so  on. 
Nonetheless 1 think it is commonly agreed that the persistent propaganda which comes from the Government is that this situation is at the root of the problems of inflation and that strong measures to curb the constant demands of the unions for wage rises which will merely enable them to keep pace with the price rises will go a long way towards answering the problem of inflation. We submit that the Government during the time that it has been making this noise has had a real part of the answer in its hands in coming to grips with this inadequate Act with which we are dealing today. If we read the statement by the Attorney-General closely this amendment to the Act is merely a tinkering with the problem. As I said at the outset, we agree that it has not been possible in the short time since the High Court gave its decision for the Government to come up with a properly formulated amendment of the Act. But we submit that if the Government had been sincere about this problem during this period of inflation it would have been working seriously and it would have advanced a long way with the preparation of the definitive amendment to this Act. This definitive amendment is necessary if the onslaught of price rises is to be attacked quickly and expeditiously. The Attorney-General in his statement admits:   . . on 17th  August  the  Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  informed  the  Parliament  that the Government was  reviewing  the  Trade Practices  Act in order to  strengthen  it and to  encourage much more vigorous competition. 
Of course this was before the High Court gave its decision. In other words the Attorney-General admits that no matter what became of the case before the High Court the Government was seized of the necessity of putting teeth into this toothless Act. The Attorney-General admitted an interdepartmental committee was considering the matter. In his second reading speech the Attorney-General stated: 
I take  the  opportunity  now to  inform honourable senators  that the  Government  has  in  the  last  few  days received  a  report from that committee. The report covers a number  of  important  and  complex matters which deserve close consideration. The Government is proceeding to give these matters full and proper consideration. 
Those words - giving recommendations of committees full and proper consideration - have come to be words which fill this side of the House with terror. They have come to be accepted by us as a formula for indefinite and indefensible delays in improving legislation not only in this sphere but also in other spheres. One need only recall a little matter which was debated in this chamber the other day concerning the necessity for the implementation of legislation which, though perhaps not quite as pressing as this legislation, is certainly very urgent - in fact, it might be considered in some ways to be more urgent. I refer to the need for Commonwealth legislation in the accident insurance field. The formula with which all urgent reminders from this side of the House are received is that the matter is receiving full and proper consideration. 
We of the Opposition certainly hope that the revised trade practices legislation which we trust will be a worth while Act will receive full and proper consideration. But we submit that a large proportion of this full and proper consideration should have been given already to the proposed legislation by the Government. We do not accept that the Government should have been starting from scratch on 3rd September, which is the day on which the High Court of Australia said that the Government had power under the corporations power of the Constitution to do what it formerly believe it did not have the power to do. We believe that a government which was really responsible, which really wanted to do something about prices and which had found in the unions a ready scapegoat for all price increases, would already have been giving consideration to what should be done and would have its amendments ready now. 
Surely if this Government believed, as  Sir Garfield  Barwick was pointing out in 1963, that trade practices legislation is one of the most potent weapons for genuine competition and for some sort of control over price rises and it wanted to do something about inflation it would not have contented itself over the last year or two with diatribes against the unions but would have amending legislation well along the way. We of the Opposition do not presume to prejudge the Government on this aspect 
We are prepared to give it the benefit of the doubt. We assume that it has been seized of the importance of this matter. We assume that a draft of the new legislation is well on its way now and that when the Attorney-General talks about the report of a committee and about the anxiety of the Prime Minister to have strengthened legislation he means what he says and that we are not in for a long delay of months or years in getting a real Act. We on this side of the chamber confidently and hopefully look forward to a real trade practices measure being introduced in this Parliament in a matter of, if not weeks, a few short months. 
I draw attention to what might be considered to be a shortcoming in the formulation of clause 18. I was pleased to hear the Attorney-General state with humility befitting a lawyer that he did not consider that lawyers were, to use his words, acmes of perfection. There might be a supposition in clause 18 that goes beyond the Attorney-General's appreciation of the standards of lawyers as just enunciated. 1 shall read the clause to make clear what 1 see as being a shortcoming. Clause 18 states: 
When a member, other than a presidential member, is informed by the  President  that the  President  proposes that the member shall l&gt;e a member of a Division of the Tribunal in any proceedings, the member shall, to the best of his knowledge, disclose to the  President  any direct or indirect pecuniary interest that the member has in any business carried on in Australia, or in any body corporate carrying on any s'uch business, being an interest that could be in conflict with his dixies as a member of the Tribunal in those proceedings. 
It is obviously a very salutary provision as it is most desirable that the public should have complete confidence in the fairness of the members of the Tribunal in dealing with any unfair trade practices that might come before the Tribunal. 
Why, one may ask, should this requirement of full disclosure be limited to the members of the Tribunal other than a presidential member? lt is not unknown in this community for members of the judiciary to hold shares in great public companies. Of course, I am not suggesting that there is anything improper in a judge being a shareholder in the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, for instance. But surely if it is required that a member shall make full disclosure this should apply also to a presidential member. The Attorney-General might do some reframing of this clause which would make it clear that the standard of disclosure which is required of the members of the Tribunal should apply also to presidential members. 
 After listening to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  reply io the amendment proposed by  Senator Murphy,  I suggest that honourable senators must feel some grave misgivings about the nature of the strengthening legislation that is in store for us. If the Minister had confined himself to the familiar pica that this is a complex amendment requiring great thought and some time - even considerable time - we might have, even though a little impatiently, given some weight to his submission. But he took it upon himself to debate the merits of what is suggested in this amendment in  a  way that suggests that anything along these lines is not to be expected in the ultimate strengthening legislation. For instance, I was appalled to hear him say: 'Good luck to the price cutter', as though this is good, old fashioned, vigorous, competitive, capitalist trading with which no objection can be found. He suggested that there was some benefit to the consumer.  Senator Murphy  made it perfectly clear that the sort of price cutting he was discussing was not the ordinary sort of competition that we get every day between traders. He was dealing with the sort of price cutting which has as its purpose the driving out of business of competitors by people who have the economic strength to do so in order that the person doing this will be in  a  position later on to charge whatever he likes.  Sir Garfield  Barwick rightly considered that this was an obnoxious practice and that an end should be put to it straight away. 
A further objection that the AttorneyGeneral raises to this sort of provision is that it imports a subjective intention. How, he asks, is a tribunal to be able to make up its mind that this was the intenion of the price cutter? He suggests that this is  a  task which is somehow beyond the reach of a tribunal dealing with this sort of matter. But I would point out to the Committee that there is nothing strange at all in this sort of proposal. This imputation of  a  subjective intention is something which the Commissioner of Taxation or his agents do every day. We are completely familiar with the situation of a man who may buy some shares or some properties in the hope that they will appreciate. When he disposes of them he has the task of convincing the Commissioner of Taxation that he made his investment or bought this property lor the purpose of income and not for the purpose of making a capital gain. A discretion is conferred on the Commissioner of Taxation and on the board of review set up under the Taxation Acts to decide this subjective matter. The test as to whether this transaction falls within the taxing aegis of the Commonwealth is a purely subjective test and no difficulty is experienced by the Commissioner of Taxation in making up his mind every day about that sort of thing. So I would suggest that to give the Trade Practices Tribunal the task of deciding what is the intention of the company which engages in these price cutting practices is something which is not strange at all. It is something which is quite familiar to our law and there is no reason why a provision such as this should not also fit into the trade practices legislation. 
 It is hard to see how legislation of this nature can ever work unless the principle embodied in this amendment ultimately becomes part of the legislation. The mere fact that there are 13,000-odd examinable agreements before the Tribunal at the present time with no prospect whatsoever of being cleared up within the lifetime of members of this Senate surely is a reason why serious consideration should be given to an amendment of this kind. A very, very simple question is raised by this amendment. It is simply this: What comes first, the public interest or the interest of the corporations? Under the Government's approach to the legislation it is clear that the answer is that the corporations come first. We submit that this is an utterly untenable situation. The idea that there would be great delays in clearing up the position of these examinable agreements under our proposed amendment is just preposterous. The fact is that most of these examinable agreements are very similar to one another. When one had been challenged, as it would be under our proposal, the position of hundreds, even thousands, would soon be cleared up. The way it would operate actually would be that it would become clear to the corporations at present indulging in these practices just what they could and could not get away with. The situation would become clear, I suggest, in a matter of months and the work of this Tribunal would not be clogged up and made a farce as it has been up to now. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, upon notice: 
Is it a fact, as reported in the 26th September 1971 issue of The Sunday Australian', that despite the fact that the Commonwealth Office of the Environment was created 6 months ago, it has no staff. 
Is it also a fact that only four positions have been established and they will not be filled for several weeks; if so, does the Government have in mind for the Office of the Environment a purely decorative, rather than a practical role. 
It is far too late in the night for the over-excited and evasive rhetoric that we have had from the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  The simple point that we are putting to him, incase he does not understand it, is this: We say that all of the noise and all of the fanfare which he has been kicking up over recent weeks about draft resisters is a sham and a pretence. We say that the Attorney-General does not want to have draft resisters arrested; he merely wants it to go out to the world that he wants them arrested. Are we seriously to believe that, when Commonwealth police arrive at a television station half an hour before they know a draft resister is going to be there, those Commonwealth police are not able to apprehend him? Are we to believe that the great squad that was sent into the University of Melbourne to catch 4 or 5 people could not have caught them if they hadwanted to? Instead they went into the university and acted like vandals in order to drive home the Attorney-General's point that he wanted the public to think that this Government wants to arrest draft resisters. 
I ask the Attorney-General and, seeing that he has bought into the argument, the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  whose contribution, apart from a few remarks, has been to sitthere all night with an asinine smirk on his face, and any member of the Government whether they will or will not give us a clear answer to this one simple question: Is it a fact that in the 5 years in which the National Service Act has been in operation more than 11,000 people who failed to register for national service and who had no reason for not registering for national service have not been prosecuted? We have asked this question in various forms dating back to last April. The Minister for Works' took comfort in a small error that  Senator Cavanagh  made in his statistics. It is no part of the case being made by the Opposition that 250,000 people have evaded national service and have not been prosecuted. 
I will spell it out as clearly as I can because obviously the Minister for Works and the Attorney-General do not wish to understand it or do not wish to give us an answer. Our case is this: It has been asserted in the newspapers and it has been asserted by us in this House that in 5 years 1 1,000 young men who have failed to register for national service and who have no legal reason for not registering have not been prosecuted. I ask again: Is this or is this not a fact? This is the only question we want answered tonight. It is not a matter of whether some people down in Victoria who happen to have opinions that rouse the reactionary ire of  Senator Greenwood  may have done something of which he does not approve. We are not necessarily supporting any of this action ourselves. 
We want to know from  Senator Wright,  if he chooses to answer the question, whether it is a fact that the Government has failed to prosecute 11,000 people that it could have prosecuted. 
The Minister has had 6 months' notice and he will not tell us. If he looks back at the record to be found in Hansard he will have to admit that he and every other Government spokesman has evaded the question that we asked and which we ask again for the final time: Is it a fact or is it not a fact that 11,000 men who have evaded national service have not been prosecuted? If it is a fact it makes everything that  Senator Greenwood  says or does on television or in this chamber about law and order a hollow farce. It proves that this is a catch-cry which he and the Government wish to use for electoral purposes and that it has nothing at all to do with enforcing law. Can we ever hope for an answer to this question? That is the simple matter that we put tonight to the Government. 
Has the Attorney-General seen a report that 43 present and former employees of a company  which  uses pyramid selling have lost an amount of almost §100,000? Was the Attorney-General correctly quoted in the Sydney Morning Herald' of 18th November as saying that he did nol know whether the Commonwealth Government could do anything about pyramid selling? 
As 1 listened to  Senator Cotton  I was reminded of Voltaire's immortal character Pangloss whose slogan was: 'All is for the best in the best of possible worlds', lt is obvious that the Government remains unmoved by  Senator Murphy's  eloquent plea for a reasonable standard of subsistence for the victims of the Government's misguided economic policies. Apart from blaming our problems oh the seasons and on imponderable international occurrences, by way of reply to  Senator Murphy's  carefully reasoned argument, we have had very little from  Senator Cotton  except a rather- philistine denigration of economists as such. Rather than attacking all economists he should have been honest enough to admit that in framing its Budget the Government had listened to the wrong economists. 
How is the public to judge a government which says that $10 a week, eroded by a 6 per cent inflation, is sufficient unemployment benefit for a single man, or $18 a week is sufficient for a married couple, but which is prepared to pay out $300m in one year to prop up a dying industry merely to remain in office? It is estimated that $300m will be directed to the wool industry in this financial year in outright grants, loans, research allocations and promotion expenses. Yet it is the Australian Labor Party which is consistently accused by the Government and its spokesmen of being the spendthrifts of the public purse. But that is because instead of wanting to throw money away we advocate spending greater amounts of Government money on things such as health, education and, as we were advocating today, social services. 
The Government says: This is unjustified and it will have no effect on the wellbeing of the economy because, after all, there will be only 100,000 or so persons unemployed in Australia in the next couple of months. So what is all the excitement about?' That is also roughly the number of wool growers who are sharing the $300m to which I just referred. Many of them, such as the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  not to mention Goldsbrough Mort and Co. Ltd or Dalgety Australia Ltd,, are very far from the breadline, lt will, be interesting to observe the speed with which the legislation is introduced into this Parliament for the additional $30m wor.h of assistance for the Australian Wool Commission, an amount which the Leader of the Australian Country Party, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  was able to extract from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  almost before he had time to unpack his squash racquets. This will be in striking contrast to the pleas of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  throughout the sittings, that legislation which he admits to be urgent is delayed by difficulties of draftsmanship. These difficulties apparently disappear when the Government dances to the tune of its coalition partner. 
In allowing the County Party its head in squandering public money by refusing the eminently reasonable and economically sound and humanitarian proposals that have been put to the Senate by  Senator Murphy,  the Government stands exposed as a cynical sectional government which is using the public purse as a bribe, regardless of the consequences , for the nation. We are not debating the' wool industry today, but  t  have cited the Government's reaction in this regard merely by way of contrast with its inaction and its determination to perpetuate its inaction in the matter of unemployment benefits and pensions. lt illustrates also the hollowness of this Government's claim that it is a responsible party when it comes to spending money while Labor is the party which would throw away the public's money. Because it depends on the Country Party to stay in office, this Government will not face the fact that the only responsible way to spend money on the wool growers is in moving people out of the industry or into other forms of rural production. 
But let me return to the matter of unemployment. No matter what  Senator Cotton  may say, all the signs are that the Government, in framing its Budget, was. badly advised and misread the economic indicators.  Lt  is generally agreed that the 
Budget has not had time to bite yet and that the present drift in the employment situation is due to factors which were present when the Budget was being framed but which the Government chose to ignore. In short, if I may use a well worn phrase, you ain't seen nothing yet. Wait till the deflationary Budget, which should have been expansionary, really takes effect. It is not necessary to rely on us for these dire predictions. The suggestion by  Senator Cotton  that  Senator Murphy  is a prophet of gloom who extracts these dire predictions from the top of his head, regardless of facts, just will not hold water. The Prime Minister himself, a couple of months ago, admitted that we could expect about 100,000 unemployed in January or February.  Mr Snedden,  the architect of this Budget, or rather the economic babe in the woods who put his signature to the documents that were put before him by his economic advisers, also admitted on the Australian Broadcasting Commission programme 'Monday Conference' on 1st November that the Treasury predicted higher and higher unemployment figures within the next couple of months. 
The really disturbing aspect of recent unemployment figures is the ratio of vacancies notified in job applicants in each State. The economic writer, Christopher Jay. writing in yesterday's 'Financial Review' estimated that as a rough rule of thumb an area where the vacancies-job applicant ratio is not below 0.80 has a reasonable employment situation, and concludes from the October statistics that none of the 6 Australian States is in a satisfactory employment position right now, quite apart from any possibility of matters worsening early next year'. 
There are certain danger signals in the Australian economy and when Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd shares drop below $10 and that giant corporation begins to curtail production, the danger bell is ringing loud and clear, even though this Government refuses to harken to it. The economic authorities who were cited by  Senator Murphy  are not to be sneered out of court by the Government or by the Treasury. As  Senator Murphy  pointed out, they should be listened to if only because, so far as the Budget is concerned, they have been proved right and the Treasury has been proved wrong. It is not sufficient, as  Senator Cotton  has attempted to suggest in what I described earlier as a rather Philistine approach, to cater to the feelings of some people by suggesting that all economists are some sort of joke and that to quote one set of economists against another is to engage in some sort of gimmickry. After all, who are the people down at the Treasury whom the Government listen to in framing its Budget? Are they not economists? I repeat that it is not enough to denigrate all economists. Let the Government frankly admit what has become clear to the financial writers in the daily Press and to many industrialists - and if  Senator Webster  insists upon my naming one of them 1 shall name  Sir Ian  McLennan, the general manager of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. There are many others if he chooses to look at the financial Press. 
I have not the quotation, but I can assure the honourable senator that he is just not reading the Press if he believes that there are no industrialists sounding a warning about the state of the economy. I should have thought that any honourable senator who would come into this chamber and suggest that there is an absence of warnings from industrialists would be admitting that he just does not read the newspapers. I do not need to labour that point because any honest man in this chamber would realise that the disquite about the economy is not confined to this side of the chamber and is not confined to financial writers but is spread right throughout the community. 
The Institute of Applied Economics and Social Research, from whose publication  Senator Murphy  quoted at length, is the only body outside the Government that is producing a detailed regular survey of the economy. The Institute warned, prior to the Budget, of the signs of a downturn in the Australian economy. I commend its latest publication, the 'Australian Economic Review' of October 1971 to honourable senators who really want to know what is happening in the Australian economy, instead of being lulled into the false Panglossian optimism which we have had from the Prime Minister, the Treasury and, tonight,  Senator Cotton.  This document contains tables setting out actual figures from 1969 to today and projected into 1972. Some of its conclusions are very chastening. For example it states: 
Real household demand grew by only 2.3 per cent in 1970-71, the lowest rate  of  growth since the 2.2 per cent growth of 1965-66. In 1970-71 the low real growth rate was accompanied by a 6.1 per cent rise  in  the implicit price index for household demand. This very low rise in real expenditure is expected to be repeated in 1971-72, allied with another very, high rise in prices of 6.5 per cent. 
I do not need to remind honourable senators that with the natural increase in the working population and with the intake of migrants which, though reduced, will continue, the. drop in the absorption of new employees which is evident in the economy carries with it an ominous threat of increased unemployment. I 'have already said that this threat has been acknowledged and predicted by this Government's Prime Minister and Treasurer. It has become part of the conventional wisdom in this country that a major cause of inflationary problems is an excessive rate of growth of expenditure by governments. This precept, which is parroted in newspaper editorials - of course that means most editorials - is echoed by those who believe that all problems will be solved by sacking a few thousand public servants and cutting back on government expenditure. This belief is furthered by the spectacle of the Government throwing away money on sections such as the wool industry just to stay in office. The Labor Party does not believe in feather-bedding in the public service or in the subsidisation of uneconomic industries, no matter how hallowed by time and tradition. 
I am opposed to throwing the public's money away. I want to know the reasons before $300m of public money is spent. Those reasons have not been given to me by the Government. We agree with  Dr P.  J. Sheehan of the Research School of Social Sciences at the Australian National University who stated: 
 Nothing seems more obvious in Australia at present than that there is a great demand and need for sharply growing expenditures by both State and Federal Governments. The plight' of many pensioners and others depending on welfare  payments, the continuance of poverty on a disturbingly wide scale, the apparently . perpetual crisis in the schools and hospitals, the need for reconstruction in the farm sector- not hand-outs - 
. these and many other facts show beyond doubt that Australia, like most other Western countries, urgently needs large outlays by the public sector. 
In support of his theory that it is a deficiency rather than an excess of government spending which contributes to the low demand and therefore to recession,  Dr Sheehan  points out that in the years 1959 to 1971 there have been only 3 years in which the Commonwealth Budget approached surplus. The first year was 1960-71 which was the financial year which ushered in the recession of 1961 and which almost cost the Government its office. The last 2 financial years - 1969-70 and 1970-71- are the other 2 years. We are now witnessing a substantial slowdown. I respectfully commend to honourable senators the conclusion . drawn by  Dr Sheehan.  He stated: 
It is a mistake, I maintain,, .to think that there is a clash between the requirements of economic responsibility and the social need for increased public sector spending on such' things as schools, hospitals and the alleviation of poverty. Not only is there no clash, but an analysis on purely economic grounds suggests mat a short-fall in real government expenditure relative to the level of receipts is pushing the economy into recession, and so an increase in real government expenditure or a cut in taxation is required. It is rare, and fortunate, that economic and social, imperatives .so coincide. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to the case of two school-teachers who were committed for trial on 7th September 1971 by a magistrate at Newcastle, New South Wales, on a charge of conspring to defraud a stockbroking firm by placing orders with the firm to sell 4,000 Tasminex and 4,000 Westralian nickel shares which, it is alleged, they did not, in fact, own at the time, but which they hoped to buy subsequently to the sale on a falling market in order that they might complete the transaction and thereby make a profit? 
Does the Attorney-General see any real difference between the alleged conduct of these two men and that of respectable stock-broking firms and others in the short-selling operations in connection with shares in Antimony Nickel Company, none of whom has been prosecuted? 
Will the Attorney-General, in considering any legislation arising out of the anticipated report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, recommend to the Government the inclusion of penalties for conduct such as that of the short-sellers of Antimony Nickel shares? 
I think it is necessary that the Committee of the Whole should spell out definitively the limits, if there are any, of the accountability of statutory corporations to the Parliament. This is necessary because some doubt has been cast on this accountability by none other than the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood). 
Yes. J will give the Minister chapter and verse. Arising out of the chain of circumstances referred to by  Senator McAuliffe, Senator Greenwood  at a meeting of Estimates Committee B. after dealing with some preliminary matters, said, as reported at page 444 of Hansard: 
Quite apart from that, I understand that the general manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission is concerned abour the implications of giving publicity to a number of these matters in relation to which inquiry has been made, lt is a matter for determination by him and such consultations as he wants to engage in as to whether this information will be provided. I refer the Committee to an answer which I gave in the Senate this morning and which emphasised the autonomy which the Parliament has given lo the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
On another occasion the Attorney-General said: 
I think that when the Parliament conies to the Broadcasting Commission the autonomy which it has il gives it effectively. 
Perhaps 1 misunderstood the AttorneyGeneral, but my interpretation of those words, stated on 2 occasions, was that he was asserting that some discretion existed in the Australian Broadcasting Commission to withhold, if it saw fit, information which was sought by the Parliament. Estimates Committee B, in its report to the Senate, has gone on record as asserting unanimously the sovereign right of the Parliament to receive any information which it seeks about the finances of any statutory corporation. I would have thought thai the genera] principle was so well established that it needed no stressing by the Senate. As  Senator McAuliffe  has said, we do not question for one moment the desirability of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to exercise a wide autonomy in its day to day operations. This matter is constantly being raised in the Parliament in respect of public affairs programmes about which incidentally I sought some information, unsuccessfully, at the hearings of Estimates Committee B. We are constantly raising matters as to the limits, if any. which should be placed on the political comment made on public affairs programmes such as 'This Day Tonight'. 
Speaking for myself, I would like to see these programmes quite untrammelled by any public authority and by any intervention from the Parliament or the PostmasterGeneral. I fully apprehend that when we on this side of the chamber are in office we will not be treated any more tenderly by these public affairs programmes than is the government of the day - nor would we expect to be. I fully apprehend that we would have our ludicrous side, just as the Government has in such abundance. J would expect that we would be pilloried and parodied and treated with the irreverence which is appropriate for people who step into the public spotlight. I enorse fully what Harry Truman said. He said: 'If you cannot, stand the heat keep out of the kitchen'. It should be quite open for these public affairs programmes to criticise us, within the limits of obscenity, libel, etc. In anything that I say I am not suggesting for one moment that there should be any restriction of the autonomy of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in this direction. But to suggest, as the AttorneyGeneral undoubtedly and unquestionably did on the 2 occasions to which I have referred, that somehow or other the Commission is entitled to withhold from the Parliament information about its finances is a fantastic proposition. 
Quite apart from the general considerations, which I would have thought were obvious, of the right of the Parliament to superintend the functions of the nation, I submit that the Broadcasting and Television Aci specifically spells out this superintendance by the Postmaster-General who. in turn, is accountable to Parliament. Firstly, section 59 lays down specifically the autonomy in day to day management and in programming, which I have been advocating. That section states: 
Subject to this Act, the Commission shall provide, and shall broadcast  or  televise from transmitting stations made available by the PostmasterGeneral, adequate and comprehensive programmes and shall take in the interest of the community all such measures as, in the opinion of the Commission, are conducive to the full development of suitable broadcasting and television programmes. 
In my submission, that is the charter of the ABC's autonomy in the matter of programming with which, as I have said already, we do not wish to interfere. Section 61 lays down specific limitations on the Commission's power to spend money without the approval of the Minister. The Commission is limited to spending $100,000  -  it has been amended - on the acquisition of property or the disposal of property without the specific permission of the Minister. Section 70 is much more specific. It states: 
The Commission shall not expend any moneys otherwise than in accordance with estimates of expenditure approved by the Treasurer. 
Section 71b. states: 
The Auditor-General shall inspect and audit the accounts and records of financial transactions of the Commission and records relating to assets of, or in the custody of, the Commission, and shall forthwith draw the attention of the Minister to any irregularity disclosed by. the inspection and audit that is, in the opinion of the AuditorGeneral, of sufficient importance to justify his so doing. 
The Act contains other provisions which spell out the powers of the AuditorGeneral. As all honourable senators know, the Audi or-General's report is presented to the Parliament. How can it be seriously maintained by the leading legal officer of the Government, the Attorney-General, that there is any limitation on the right of the Senate or of the Parliament generally to scrutinise the accounts and the financial dealings of this statutory corporation? It is for this reason that I believe it is necessary for this Committee to spell out, in accordance with the motion that has been proposed by  Senator Murphy,  definitely and for all time in order that there may no longer be any doubt in the minds of the Attorney-General or other Ministers as to the rights of the Senate and that in fact the Senate does have the right to scrutinise the accounts, receipts and financial dealings generally of statutory corporations. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to the comments of  Mr Daryl  Dawson, the inspector appointed to inquire into the affairs of the defunct East Australian Insurance Company  Limited, that the provisions of the Victorian Insurance Act were completely inadequate to afford any reasonable protection to policy holders who deal with a newly established insurance company dealing in the comprehensive insurance of motor vehicles. 
Has the Treasurer also read  Mr Dawson's  opinion that this is, for constitutional reasons, a problem which is probably more appropriately the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government than of State Governments. 
Will promised Commonwealth legislation regulating the insurance industry be introduced during the current session of Parliament. 
and (2) Yes. However, it may be noted that  Mr Dawson's  criticism was directed to the provisions of the Insurance Act 1932-1966 which is a Commonwealth and not a Victorian Act. The failure of the East Australian Insurance Company Limited was one of the developments which led to the decision announced by the former Prime Minister on 8th September 1970 that the Commonwealth would legislate for closer supervision of general (non-life) insurance companies. 
In response to a similar question asked in another place on 6th October 1971, the Acting Treasurer said that every endeavour will be made to have a Bill introduced during the current session, 
I would like to add a few comments along the lines of  Senator Murphy's  contribution to this debate. It is obvious from the speech that was made in another place the other night by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  that a lot of the time of the Department of Labour and National Service has Seen devoted in recent months to evolving what is put forward as part of the Government's answer to the problem of rising prices in this community. I refer to the proposals which nave emanated from the Department for a re-casting of the industrial arbitration legislation in this country. One of the features that struck me most, about the Government's proposals in this field is that, while advocating an increase in and a greater emphasis on the conciliation aspect of conciliation and arbitration, the Government has also proposed that even though parties - unions and employers - should manage in the conciliation process to reach some agreement as to appropriate wage rates there should still be a power in the Commonwealth to intervene and appeal to the presidential members of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission against such an negotiated agreement on the justification of the public interest being affected. 
I am becoming increasingly tired of the selectivity of the Government's approach to the question of appeals for wage restraints. I find it nauseating))' hypocritical for example, that a Prime Minister should glibly put to the Parliament a proposition that his emolument should reach $51,000 a year but that there should be restraint on the part of the members of the community who get something like $80 a week. I also find it infuriating - that is the only word I can find for it - that millionaire Press barons can deliver sermons to the members of this Parliament, such as we find in one of this morning's editorials, in which it is suggested that we should be satisfied with the honour of being here, that it is a place to which we have come voluntarily and that according to  Sir Warwick  Fairfax's presumably well paid editorial writer, we should be content with what we are getting now and not ask for more because we are sufficiently honoured by being here. 
Do not such people as  Sir Warwick  Fairfax and  Sir Frank  Packer and their highly paid executives exert some pressure on the goods that are available in the community by virtue of the enormous and largely hidden emoluments they get out of their interests? Why should they bc above being asked to make some sacrifice in the general interest of restraints on demand? Just the other night on the television programme 'Monday Conference' the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was asked a few questions on . the latest crusade that he is running about restraints by the many and the continuing to have it as good as ever by the few. He was asked a few questions about extending his request for restraint into the higher echelons. He made this interesting reply: 
Secondly, if we felt that we really wanted to take action so far as profits are concerned, we have got the taxation mechanism, and when we looked at profits we realised that was not an angle that needed immediate attention. 
Why does it not need immediate attention? Why the constant appeals to the masses of people - included amongst them ourselves - to restrain their appetites and to withhold their demands into a distant future when a readily available taxation power which could be used against the exhorters of restraint is left on the shelf? I fully endorse the proposals of  Senator Murphy  that we should have a look at equalising the request for restraints. Why does the Taxation Office not make a proper investigation into the real emoluments of the people who are at the head of this crusade? I refer to the people who are exhorting us daily in these editorials. If they are to be believed, and if their favourite word 'credibility' is to be maintained, why can we not have tabled just what they are getting - what is their share of the cake? Then, of course, we would take their exhortations greater to heart. Surely it would be in the national interest for us to be able to believe in the sincerity of these men. We would be prepared readily lo tighten our belts if we could be persuaded that they too are not getting more than their share. 
One of the things that the Government should be doing in the interests of national morale and in the interests of selling the population on the proposition that there is a need for restraint is investigating the profits of the people at the top and perhaps introducing a salary ceiling. We should not be mean with them. I would not suggest that  Sir Warwick  Fairfax or  Sir Frank  Packer should be asked to get by on less than about $50,000 a year. But, in the interest of national morale and in the interests of persuading the population that the appeal for restraints is a sincere one and not just a catch cry of 'You go without while we enjoy it as usual' why do we not cut it down to that? 
 Apart from the objection outlined by  Senator Cavanagh  about the reversal of the onus of proof by means of this alteration of the law, there is also a difficulty which probably was not foreseen by the draftsman of this clause. It is that this clause is thrown into considerable doubt from a constitutional point of view. If the Government is relying on the customs power the offence created is that of importing these objectionable substances. If they are not imported the customs power is of no avail. The Bill refers to prohibited imports which are reasonably suspected of having been imported into Australia. Either they are imported or they are not imported. If they are imported power exists under the customs power; if they are not imported this power does not exist and it is necessary to look to some other power. 
Somebody taking this point might be able to establish that if charged under this section the section was ultra vires and the prosecution would fail. Of course our main objection is that the general principle should be maintained that the more serious the offence the greater is the onus of proof on the prosecution. In this case that principle has been reversed and it will not be necessary under this provision for the prosecution to prove that the objectionable substance has been imported but merely to create a satisfaction in the minds of the tribunal that there is a reasonable suspicion. We say that is not good enough when the penalties are as heavy as they will be, going up to as much as 10 years gaol. For that reason we move that this clause be omitted. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole. 
asked  the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General seen a report that 43 present and former employees of a company which uses pyramid-selling have lost an amount of almost $100,000? 
Was the Attorney-General correctly quoted in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 18th November 1971 as saying that he did not know whether the Commonwealth could do anything about pyramid selling? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In answer to an earlier question asked by  Senator Willesee  the Minister stated that the question of TransAustralia Airlines and the Perth-Darwin service was receiving the Government's consideration in the general framework of the 2-airline policy. I ask: Does the Government, as suggested by sections of the Press, propose to make an announcement in the near future concerning the future operation of the 2-airline domestic aviation policy? In view of the importance of this matter and the complexity of the questions involved, will the Government give consideration to producing a White Paper on the subject in the interests of ensuring an informed public debate? 
asked  the Minister representing the Minister for Labour  and  National Service, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of the recent statements by the National Director of the Australian Council of Employers' Federation  (Mr G. Polites)  that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act should be completely re-written? 
Did  Mr Polites  state that we have reached a point where the Act is as much a psychological thing as a reality and that it is just not working? 
Did  Mr Polites  also accuse the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of ineptitude in handling some cases by quoting examples of the Commission actually causing strikes by refusing to listen to submissions by employers and unions 
Will the Government pay due regard to  Mr Polites'  criticism of the performance of the Com monwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, in the event that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is amended, 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Labour and National Service has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
to (3) It is my understanding that the Executive Director ofthe Australian Council of Employers' Federations,  Mr G.  Polites, has on a number of occasions advocated changes to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, some of which would no doubt require substantial re-writing of the Act. It is also my understanding  Mr Polites  has criticised some decisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
In connection with the Government's review of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, on which I made a statement to Parliament on 7th December 1971, attention was paid to a wide range of views as expressed by various persons and organisations including the views of the major trade union and employer bodies which I consulted in a National Tripartite Conference. 
 In the city of Sydney, which is part of my electorate, there is a beautiful national reserve on the foreshores of Sydney Harbour known as Ashton Park. I used to live in this district, and when my children were young I used to take them there on some occasions in order that they might breathe a little unpolluted air. On one of my earliest trips to this place I discovered a rather extraordinary structure which on closer examination turned out to be a sandstone gun emplacement complete with cannons. On making a few more inquiries I discovered that they bore the inscription "1853' and that they had been erected in that year to repel a Russian invasion. As  Senator Gair  in the course of his remarks chose to refer to some action of the French in the Indian Ocean I would remind him of what strikes me as a rather apposite little French proverb, with which of course he will be no doubt familiar. It goes: 
Plus ca change, plus  c'est  la mam-chose,  lt may be loosely translated as follows: The more things change, the more they remain the same. So I think we can draw the conclusion that back in 1853 there was no shortage of  Senator Hannans,  no shortage of  Senator Gairs  or  Senator Drake-Brockmans,  under whatever name they were going in those days, who could imagine that we were under a Russian threat then. But it is rather chastening to think that we have to dig back into the days of 1853 in order to justify the absurd attitude that has been taken by the speakers on the Government side tonight. 
I listened to  Senator Carrick's  catalogue of perils: The Russian navy is the greatest in the world, it is an all-ocean navy and its strength is given in 'Jane's Fighting Ships', etc. These things confirm all the fears which he attempted to inject into us, but I must confess that as I listeneed to him and as 1 listened to the other speakers from the other side of the chamber I kept asking myself: 'So what?' Why do these people imagine that the Russian ships are in the Indian Ocean at all? There is one interesting thing about this, and that is that the ships did not come here last week or last year. They have been doing this since about 1968. I suggest that the reasoon why this has suddenly become a matter of great anxiety to the gentlemen opposite is that they have lost one of their great stocksintrade with which they have been accustomed to giving the Australian people nightmares, especially in election years. They have lost the yellow peril. 
Now that our great and powerful ally has started to treat the Chinese as people they need to discover some other threat. So what do we have? They say the Russians are about to land at Fremantle. But 1 suggest that there are very simple explanations for the Russian's presence in the Indian Ocean at the present time. Russia, as one of 2 or 3 super powers, is in competition with some other super powers, notably with the United States, Japan and China. The practice that these Russian ships have followed since 1968 is to leave the port of Vladivostok about the beginning of the northern winter, sail down and arrive in the northern Indian Ocean - by the way, it is a long way from Fremantle - and hover around there from about November or January until about the following May or June. Some of them would carry missiles but there is no offensive equipment such as aircraft carriers or anything like thai accompanying them. 
I suggest that there are 2 obvious reasons why these ships have started to appear in the Indian Ocean. The first is a political reason, that they want to foster non-alignment of the countries in the area with any of the rivals that they see in this super power game. The second is a simple and obvious strategic reason. The United States has developed Polaris missiles with a range of 2,500 miles which, if they were deployed in submarines in " the Indian Ocean, would threaten any of the cities of the Soviet Union. I know that that is not anything that would disturb  Senator Hannan.  In fact, I have no doubt that it would do nothing but delight him. but it is something about which I believe the Russians are entitled to feel some legitimate misgivings. It is true that the United States of America has not been in the habit up till now of deploying ships in the Arabian Sea, but it. is something that the Russians have to take into account as a possibility. I believe that all that the Russians are doing is going in for a little bit of area familiarisation. I do not feel scared by the presence there nor do the people who wrote the report. It is interesting to note that in almost everything  Senator Hannan  said he could find no support for his nightmares in the report and had to fall back on his own neuroses, with which this chamber is so familiar. 
Mention has been made of danger to our sea lanes and some authorities or alleged authorities have been referred to tonight. Reference has been made to Jane's Fighting Ships' and Admiral Peek. It is true that  Senator Hannan  did not refer to any authorities. He dragged everything off the top of his head and said: Tt is said' or 'lt is, of course, well known". However, there was some attempt by some of the other speakers in the debate to refer to authorities. So on this question of danger to our sea lanes lel me refer to a very interesting article written by a man named Geoffrey Jukes, who is a Fellow in International Relations in the School of Pacific Studies at the Australian National University. This article appeared recently in one of the Fairfax newspapers. the National Times'. If the Senate will bear with me, I wish to make a short quotation from that article.  Mr Jukes  wrote: 
While these are theoretical possibilities -  that is the alleged threat to sea lanes -  they seem over-ambitious for a handful of warships, operating from a base several thousand miles away and without air cover. Even if these handicaps could be overcome it is well to realise, as the Russians undoubtedly do, the consequences of such action. 
Nearly half the world's tanker tonnage belongs to NATO countries, and when Japanese tankers; plus those registered in Liberia but owned inAmerica (and in the last resort likely to call on the United States Navy rather than the 200-man Liberian Navy for protection) are included. 80 per cent of world tankers are owned by America or one of its allies. 
To interfere with these is to confront the major maritime powers, whose navies control the waters in which the Soviet merchant fleet (second largest in numbers of ships, sixth largest in tonnage) sails. These include the Danish Straits and the Bosporus, each less than 3 miles wide, through which 85 per cent of Soviet seaborne foreign trade has to pass. Only in a context of imminent world war is it likely that the Russians would want to take the risk, and in that context we and they would have more urgent problems than that of freedom of the seas. 
I believe that to be the realistic background against which we have to consider these problems and free our minds of the hysteria which is part and parcel of the approach of people on the Government side of the chamber whenever they talk on the question of national defence. I feel a certain sympathy for honourable senators opposite. It is well known thai quite recently they were caught with their pants down in the matter of relations with 
China. After having been assured by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  that anybody who spoke to the Chinese was practically equivalent to a traitor to his country, honourable senators opposite were confronted overnight with the spectacle of Australia's great and powerful ally treating the Chinese as human beings. Having lost the scare which operated particularly to  Senator Gair's  advantage in whipping up a few votes in Queensland on the supposition that the little yellow men who were waiting beside their sampans to come down here and rape our womenfolk were closer to Queensland than they were to anywhere else, they are now trying to compensate by perhaps winning back a few seats in Western Australia by this newly manufactured fantasy that we are about to have Russians land on the coast of Western Australia. I am afraid that is a horse which just will not run and that, as  Senator O'Byrne  said, the obsession with keeping up with the Joneses militarily is an outdated approach to security. Our best defence is to establish good relations with as many Indian Ocean communities as possible and to abandon this philosophy of fear and xenophobia which may have kept the present coalition Government in office for 20 years but which has been of poor service to the people of Australia. 
Although the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  occupies the highest legal post in the Commonwealth, 1  will presume to offer him a little legal advice. Most citizens when they claim they have been misrepresented in the Press avail themselves of a very simple remedy. When the Attorney-General took this matter up with the 'Age' the editor of that newspaper, on the Attorney-General's own account of the proceedings, then referred to the shorthand notes of the reporter who had been responsible for the story and, after arming himself with this information, chose to stick to his guns. 
The burden of the Attorney-General's complaint is that the words which he had used did not bear the construction which entitled the editor to use the word 'beware' in the headlines. My observation of the conduct of the Attorney-General in this chamber does not lead me to regard it as an outrageous imputation that he would attempt to intimidate a newspaper or any of the media. I would suggest to him that, if he thinks he has been wronged by this newspaper, he should avail himself of the remedy available to an ordinary citizen and take action for defamation against the Age' and that he allow a judge and jury to decide whether the words that he used did, in fact, justify the headline used by that newspaper. 
I am not sure to which Minister my question should be addressed, but 1 have chosen the Attorney-General because of the interest which he has recently shown in the internal affairs of the Australian Labor Party. Has the Minister seen reports in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of yesterday and today that his own Party has been infiltrated by the extremist anti-Semitic League of Rights and that the director of that organisation, the notorious  Mr Eric  Butler, has claimed that substantial numbers of branch presidents, secretaries and rank and file members of both the Liberal and Country Parties are members or supporters of the League of Rights? Does the Minister know whether  Mr Butler's  claim is true and, if it is, may we on this side of the chamber rest assured that the Minister is acting with his customary energy to help to restore his Party to ils pristine purity? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Health been repeatedly advised by the National Health and Medical Research Council that measures should be taken to encourage the use of low-tar cigarettes as against high-tar cigarettes. 
Does the new voluntary code for advertising on radio and television, which has applied since October 1971, include as item 11 the statement No claim for reduction of any ingredient from smoke of any cigarette may be included in advertising'. 
Was the code announced by the former Minister for Health on 3rd May 1971. after discussions between Commonwealth and State health authorities, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, broadcasting and television services and cigarette manufacturers. 
Was item 11 slipped into the code by the cigarette manufacturers to prevent the AntiCancer Council of Victoria from advertising on television to the effect that low-tar cigarettes are less dangerous than high-tar cigarettes. 
Will the Minister recommend to the POSt.masterGeneral, as the Minister responsible for policing the voluntary code, that item 11 be removed from the code. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
No. The National Health and Medical Research Council has recommended that cigarette packets should bear labels indicating the tar and nicotine yield", of the cigarettes. 
Yes. 
Yes. On 3rd May 1971, my predecessor announced that a revised code of cigarette advertising was to commence on 1st October 1971. 
No. The code has application only to the advertising of cigarettes by the tobacco industry. 
I do not propose to make such a recommendation to the Postmaster-General. 
The Opposition welcomes this Bill as far as it goes. The object of the Bill is to limit any one shareholder, either a person or a corporation, to less than 10 per cent of the total nominal value of the voting shares of a bank incorporated in Australia, but there are certain exceptions which allow a person to have a greater interest when approved by the Governor-in-Council. The Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said in his second reading speech that this Bill continues the Government's policy of preventing local or overseas interest from acquiring large shareholdings in banks incorporated in Australia. Of course, this is a policy with which we do not quarrel. 
Our criticism of the Government's banking legislation is that it does not go far enough. Its control, as is set out in clause 6 of this Bill, extends only to banks within the narrow definition of bodies corporate in respect of which there is in force an authority referred to in section 9 of the Banking Act 1959-67. I would draw the attention of honourable senators to a recent comment of  Dr Harold  Bell, economic adviser of the Australian Mutual Provident Society. He said:   . . there is a case for looking again at the  definition of banking business and the exercise of sonic closer oversight of those banking type institutions not at present covered by the banking legislation. 
Neither the legislation which we are considering nor any other Commonwealth banking legislation faces up to the question of the overriding control of the money supply of Australia, and accordingly there are large gaps in control over the national economy. Over recent years there has been a gradual metamorphosis of the financial structure of our economy, and credit and quasi-banking institutions have taken on new forms and ever-increasing sophistication. There has been a steady proliferation of finance companies and merchant banks, all of which are engaged in the business of borrowing and lending money, which is the traditional activity of banks - that is, they borrow as cheaply as they can and lend at interest rates which are as high as is permitted. But these institutions are not defined in Commonwealth legislation as banks properly so called. It is not hard to envisage a time in the near future when hire purchase advances will exceed trading bank deposits. As was pointed out recently by  Dr Coombs,  a former Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia, there has been a progressive decontrol of the aggregate of the money of Australia by the banking system. Between 1953 and today the total money flow of Australia controlled by the banking system in the narrow sense dropped from 70 per cent to less than 50 per cent. 
One of the ironical effects of our banking legislation is to forbid a foreign bank authority to carry on banking business, properly so called, in Australia, and so to operate at the normal rate of interest, but to allow it to buy up a hire purchase company and so to charge effective interest rates of over 20 per cent. Thus our banking legislation does nothing to protect the average man and woman who pays excessive interest rates to finance companies for the vast variety of goods, especially consumer durables such as motor cars and refrigerators, which are usually quoted as illustrations of our national affluence. The last alibi for this governmental indifference to the exploitation of the ordinary citizen disappeared when the High Court of Australia gave its recent famous decision in the concrete pipes case. This decision opens up for the Commonwealth Parliament new vistas of control of these fringe banking institutions, and a future Labor government will not hesitate to use to the full all the constitutional powers at its disposal to bring these fringe banking institutions under the supervision which is necessary in the interests of Australia. 
Yes. 
For the past 6 hours we on this side of the Senate have been somewhat perplexed that the self-righteous Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  who is usually so quick on the draw has taken so long to speak. If the charges which were laid at his door by  Senator Murphy  had been levelled at me I could not have been on my feet quickly enough to defend myself. However, the AttorneyGeneral left it to his  leader  to set the tone, a tone which 1 may say has never been raised even by the Attorney-General himself, of burying the real issue and regurgitating all the tired old accusations agaist the Labor Party of being a party of law breakers, as though this is some way excuses the Attorney-General, the chief legal officer of the Crown, from himself breaking the law by committing contempt of court, as I will amply demonstrate that he has done. Our mystification as to why his party kept him under wraps for so long soon disappeared when he did open his mouth because he did not take long to convict, himself out of his own mouth, as 1 will show also. 
After his leader had made his lame attempt to cloud the real issue here, we had the usual apoplectic low comedy from  Senator Wright  who, having scaled the legal heights as a prosecutor of drunks in the Hobart Police Court, had the temerity to accuse the most distinguished lawyer in this chamber of being - I will say it in the way that he pronounced it - unlearned. If he will scour the Jaw books he will find that the name of  Senator Murphy  occupies an honourable place in the legal tomes of this country, which show that he has appeared in all of the superior courts of this land. 1 have had a look at most of those books and I cannot remember seeing the name of  Senator Wright  appearing very frequently. 
We then had the curiously naive contribution of  Senator Rae  who demonstrated only that he does not understand the English language, as I will demonstrate also in a few moments. Stripped of his boyish debating society points he showed that he misunderstands the law by claiming that there is no contempt unless it can be proved that the conduct complained of will in fact prejudice a fair trial. In a moment or two T will show him that that is not the law. 
You said it. Have a look at Hansard tomorrow and you will see the words there. From 

 Senator Condon Byrne we had the usual sophistry suggesting that  Senator Greenwood  is not guilty of any offence or at hsst of only a technical offence, because - and this was his reasoning as far as I could understand it - the Labor Party itself does not respect the law. I do not know what (hat has to do with the issue that we are discussing. At last we heard from  Senator Greenwood  himself. As I say, he soon made it clear why his Party had to keep him under wraps. Out of his own mouth he constantly accused - and I challenge him to look at Hansard tomorrow - this man Johnston of already having been proved guilty. 
Quite apart from this legal argument, which some may consider to be a hair splitting one, 1 find something odious in the spectacle of an able bodied man who has never heard a shot fired in anger standing up here day after day and delivering sermons to the youth of this country about their obligations under the National Service Act. Tonight, of course, we have had another such sanctimonious exercise from him. He has asked for chapter and verse about his faults, and I will give it to him. One would be entitled to assume that the chief law officer of the Crown, a figure who is traditionally recognised by the Bar as the leader of the profession - a man, moreover, who is one of  Her  Majesty's Counsel - would have absorbed the traditions and conventions of his high office and would attempt to act up to them. The legal authorities which are available to  Senator Murphy  are available also to  Senator Greenwood.  If he has not familiarised himself with these authorities he is as professionally under-equipped as a doctor who does not know how to use a stethoscope, and he disqualifies himself for office on that count alone. If he is familiar with these authorities but chooses to flout them, he shows his contempt for the rights and traditions which he has sworn to uphold and he disqualifies himself for office on that alternative count. 
As he and the Government so obviously have failed to comprehend the rationale of  Senator Murphy's  indictment, I ask the Senate's indulgence in order to spell it out in simple terms, as is evidently necessary. Firstly, as every layman knows, let alone the chief law officer of the Crown, under our system of law a man's innocence is presumed until his guilt has been proved. Secondly, speeches or writings misrepresenting the proceedings of the court or prejudicing the public for or against a party are contempts of court. That is a quotation from Halsbury's Laws of England, third edition, volume 8, page 7. I apologise to the Senate for having to quote such trite law but the Attorney-General and the geniuses around him have made it necessary. The same authority states: 
The question in all cases of comment on pending proceedings is not whether the publication does interfere, but whether it tends to interfere - 
I hope  Senator Rae  is listening to this because this is the authoritative statement of the law -  with the due course of justice. On the same principle it is a contempt to make a speech tending to influence the result of a pending trial, whether civil or criminal, or to deliver a sermon with the same tendency. 
In passing, I suppose honourable senators who are familiar with the Pharisaical style of the Attorney-General would class most of his outpourings as sermons. Thirdly, the Attorney-General is not just an ordinary layman who may plead ignorance of the law. He is not just an ordinary politician who may indulge in polemical excesses whenever the mood seizes him, and that is every few minutes from my own observations of  Senator Greenwood.  He is not just a member of the Government of the day who may put party political considerations ahead of all other criteria of proper behaviour. It is accepted by legal authorities that the Attorney-General occupies a quasi-judicial office.  Sir Robert  Finlay, who was one of the most authoritative British Attorneys-General in the early years of this century, described the AttorneyGeneral's office in these words: 
The duty which the law throws upon the Attorney-General in regard to putting the criminal law in motion is one of the most anxious and responsible which any man could well have thrown upon him. 
It is no good  Senator Greenwood  saying that these authorities refer only to starting prosecutions. They are the general canons of behaviour for an Attorney-General throughout his whole task in seeing that the law is carried out.  Sir Robert  Finlay continued:  lt would be a great relief to everyone filling (he office, which I have the honour to hold, if it were left to the departments to determine whether there should or should not be a prosecution in matters relating lo the business of the departments. A decision might conceivably be arrived at on the ground of general policy, and because it was considered that, on the whole, it was desirable that the matters should be investigated. But the law has thought it right to say that before the machinery for the investigation of a crime was put into motion there should be the intervention of a responsible officer, who is answerable to this House, and that he should determine whether the case was one suitable for a criminal prosecution. That is the only question which anyone who occupies that office would consider. In discharging that duty the Attorney-General is exercising a function of an almost judicial nature. 
My next point is that if this view of the Attorney-General's role is accepted it is improper for him to comment at all on criminal proceedings once they have been commenced. It is as improper for him to do so as it would be for the judge or magistrate charged with trying an accused person. Finally, it is particularly reprehensible for an Attorney-General to seek to make any political capital out of criminal proceedings which are pending or which he may have authorised. Let me quote  Sir Hartley  Shawcross who has already been referred to by  Senator Murphy.  He said: 
There is only one consideration which is altogether excluded, and that is the repercussion of a given decision upon my personal or my Party's or the Government's political fortunes; that is a consideration which never enters into account. 
Of course, as I have acknowledged,  Sir Hartley  Shawcross was referring to the considerations which an Attorney-General should have in mind in recommending a prosecution. Surely the same consideration should apply once a prosecution has been launched. In the light of these principles let us cast a cold eye, an unexcited eye, on what  Senator Greenwood  has said. That is what we have been challenged to do during this debate. What has he said? What were his words? Let us look at them. In the first place, he has seized on the prosecution of  Mr Johnston  and his failure to appear in court as an opportunity to attack the Labor Party. Whatever may be the merits of the case against  Mr Johnston;  whatever may be the reasons for his failure to appear in court; whatever may have been said about the case by members of the Labor Party whether by  Dr Cass. Mr Whitlam, Mr Crawford  or anyone else, and however reprehensible, illegal or improper their conduct may have been - I do not concede that - the AttorneyGeneral, if he appreciated his proper role, would remain silent about the case until it had been disposed of. 
There is nothing politically unreal about that proposition, as has been suggested by the Attorney-General and by other speakers. They have said: "This is unreal. He is a politician as .well as being the Attorney-General. How can you ask him to muzzle himself just because there are legal proceedings?' That is a completely false proposition, lt does not involve a moratorium on debate on Labor's role in the Johnston case. After all, there is no shortage of gunslingers on the other side. There is  Senator Hannan  and  Senator Webster  who, by the way, made an interesting interjection tonight which may not have been heard by all honourable senators. This man who has constantly challenged us to prove that an allegation of guilt has been made against  Mr Johnston,  interjected at one stage that we were harbouring a criminal. If that is not prejudging the case, I should like to know what is. Provided these men on the other side of the chamber refrain from suggesting that  Mr Johnston  is guilty, they may be as harsh as they wish about the Labor Party's role in allegedly condoning or applauding his failure to appear before the court. But it is a different matter altogether for the Attorney-General. Once proceedings are pending against an accused, his proper attitude in the matter is one of silence. 
If his offence were confined to importing political polemics into what we conceive as his quasi judicial role, reprehensible as that is, I doubt whether the Opposition would have considered his conduct so heinous as to warrant moving this motion. But of course, no matter how he and those on the other side of the House have tried to twist the meaning of his words, his breach of duty has been far more serious than this, and I shall make that clear now by quoting chapter and verse. He has publicly proclaimed the guilt of a man who is yet to be tried. To contend otherwise is to do violence to the plain everyday meaning of the English language. To nail his falsification of what he said, let us dissect the statement which he admitted to the Senate he had made. I hope that honourable senators have before them the Hansard report of Tuesday 22nd February. The crucial passage appears on page 17. After saying that the Labor Party should say where it stands in respect of the refusal of its candidate for Hotham,  Mr B.  Johnston, to appear before the court and answer a charge of failing to obey his call-up for national service, the Attorney-General had this to say, and I ask honourable senators, and especially  Senator Rae,  to listen closely: 
Moreover, it is unfair to those who accept their national service responsibilities for the Labor Party to aid and support those who will neither accept their lawful obligations nor submit to the penalties for non-compliance. 
This passage has been referred to by  Senator Murphy,  and the construction which he puts upon it is not merely the construction which any competent lawyer would put upon  it;  it is also the meaning which any intelligent layman would put upon it. But since the Government - I include here  Senator Greenwood  - disputes this construction let us examine the words again in some detail. Note carefully that  Senator Greenwood  does not confine himself to condemning  Mr Johnston  for failing to appear to answer the charge, as he so falsely and. 1 think, knowingly has said time and again during this debate. After stating that the charge against  Mr Johnston  is failure to obey a call-up for national service, he states that the Labor Party is aiding and supporting those who will not accept their lawful obligations. 
If the 'those' referred to does not include  Mr Johnston,  the whole statement is point  less.  The clear implication is that  Mr johnston  has not accepted his lawful obligation to answer a call-up notice, that is, that he is guilty of the offence with which he has been charged but for which he has not yet been tried. The further allegations that he will not submit to the penalties for noncompliance implies that he has failed to comply with the call-up notice and is, therefore, subject to a penalty. How can there be any talk of penalties unless guilt is assumed? lt is idle to claim that the only reasonable inference to be drawn from  Mr Johnston's  failure to appear is that he is guilty of the  charge.  It does not even matter if he has admitted guilt to the charge. That is irrelevant to  what  we are saying against the Attorney-General. No matter how overwhelming the presumption of his guilt, no matter even if he has admitted his guilt, no-one, least of all the Attorney-General, has the right to assert his guilt until it has been proved. As  Senator Murphy  pointed out  -  I think it was referred to also by  Senator Wheeldon,  and this underlines the point I am making - did anyone believe that Charles Manson, the mass killer in the United States, was not guilty? Did we not all privately assume that he was guilty? But when the  President  of the United Stales expressed his horror at the crimes of Charles Manson before Manson had been brought to trial there was a cry of protest all over the United States against this premature public assertion by the  President  of the gUilt of a man whom most Americans, as f have said, privately considered to be guilty. 
I am forced by the moral and intellectual obtuseness of the Attorney-General and other honourable senators on the Government side who have participated in this debate, to restate the obvious. We are not debating whether  Mr Johnston  is innocent or guilty. That matter cannot properly be debated before his trial. The AttorneyGeneral's unforgivable offence - an offence for which he boasts he is unrepentant and boasts that he will repeat - is to assert a man's guilt before that man has been tried. 
I do noi think I could convince the honourable senator because he has proved conclusively here tonight that he just does not understand the meaning of words. It is interesting, by the way, to compare  Senator Greenwood's  approach to law enforcement with that of his predecessor,  Mr Hughes,  who now, by contrast with  Senator Greenwood,  appears as a great libertarian Attorney-General. As  Senator Murphy  pointed out,  Mr Hughes  justified his nonprosecution of men who had not complied with the National Service Act, and also of tho o who were alleged to have incited  other.  noi to comply. I should like  Senator Greenwood  to bear these words in mind because they may .save him from further abuse of his office in the future.  Mr Hughes  said:  lt does not follow that if one's aim is, as mine is- 

 Senator Greenwood is not the only one with this aim -  to maintain public order under the law, it is necessary or proper to prosecute, on the basis of a sort of reflex action, every breach or supported breach of a law which operates in a context of political controversy. 
I make bold to suggest that if  Mr Hughes  were still Attorney-General and even if he had been completely satisfied of  Mr Johnston's  guilt, that would not have concluded the matter for him in weighing up whether he should be prosecuted. The words of  Mr Hughes  which I have just quoted demonstrate that he is familiar with the traditions of the office of Attorney-General. 

 - Senator Rae may read it if he likes. I have read everything that I have here. As I say, this is supported also by the lofty authority of  Sir John  Simon who was referred to earlier by  Senator Murphy. Sir John  Simon said: 
There is no greater nonsense talked about the Attorney-General's duly than the suggestion that in all cases the Attorney-General ought to decide lo prosecute merely because he thinks there is what the lawyers call 'a case', lt is not true, and no one who has held that office supposes il is.  1 suggest that a wise and tolerant AttorneyGeneral, acting on the principles enunciated by the distinguished line of British Attorneys-General to whom I have referred-- 
That is all 1 have.  Senator Rae  may correct me later if he likes. I ask for your protection.  Mr President.  I ask that I be heard in silence. I am not trying to falsify anything. If any honourable senator wishes to make a correction to any quotation 1 refer to he will get an opportunity to do so. I see the usual look of self-righteous indignation on the face of the Attorney-General who falsified repeatedly here tonight what he had said and who compounded his offence by repeating accusations of guilt in this chamber. If there is anybody in this House who is disentitled to self-righteous indignation it is  Senator Greenwood  who tonight condemned himself out of his own mouth. 
I suggest that a wise and tolerant AttorneyGeneral, the last possible removed from  Senator Greenwood,  acting on the principles enunciated by the distinguished line of British Attorneys-General to whom I have referred, and whose guidance obviously was accepted by  Mr Hughes,  may well have decided that in all the circumstances of  Mr Johnston's  case the prosecution should not be proceeded with. This country is divided on the question of national service. The war which brought it into being is over as far as this country is concerned. Australia faces no discernible threat, in the words of the Liberal's ex-Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  for at least the next 10 years and an election is to be held in the next few months as a result of which a government will be elected which is pledged to repeal the law under which  Mr Johnston  has been charged. In these circumstances I do not believe that  Mr Hughes  would have recommended the prosecution of a candidate of one of the major political parties who was alleged to he calling in question by his own conduct a law which will be a major issue in the election in which he is a candidate. 
But that observation is purely peripheral to the Opposition's case against the present Attorney-General. Whether or not the prosecution of  Mr Johnston  is justified or is in the public interest, he has the right, which every citizen has. to be presumed innocent until he is proved guilty. It is monstrous.  Mr President,  that this right should be denied to him by of all people the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth of Australia, the chief law officer of the Crown, lt is a measure of the lamentable decline of the standards of public behaviour in this country that  the  AttorneyGeneral can act in the way he has, that he can come into this Senate during this debate and compound his offence by repeating it. and that the Government of which he is a prominent member does not disown him as it should. This conduct is on a par with the almost daily mauling of the truth that we get from the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  It is a symptom of a government in an advanced state of decay. The Senate should have no hesitation in passing judgment on this damnable conduct by the worst Attorney-General that this country has had. 
It does not follow that, if one's aim  (as  mine is) is to maintain public order under the law ... it is necessary or proper to prosecute, on the basis of a sort of reflex action, every breach or supposed breach of a law which operates in a context of political controversy. 
I understand that that extract was used as a quotation to differentiate my conduct from that of  Mr Hughes.  The full sentence is as follows:  lt does not follow that, if one's aim- 
In the generality I agree with the statement as I have just quoted it. 
Let us have a look at the law on this particular subject and see whether  Senator Murphy  can tell us in any way at all how he distinguishes this statement of the law from the facts in this case. I wish to refer to a judgment of the Court of Appeal in England dealing with the question of contempt. The judgment defines 'contempt' and goes on to say: 
This is not the action which will be tried by a jury and although I suppose there might be a case in which the publication was of such a kind that it might even be thought that it would influence the mind of a professional judge it has generally been accepted- 
I repeat those words for  Senator Murphy's  benefit - it has generally been accepted that professional judges are sufficiently well equipped by their professional training to be on their guard against allowing any such matter as this to influence them in deciding the case, and it  is not suggested in the present case that anything has been done to prejudice the trial of the action in that sort of way. 
I went on to say that  Senator Murphy  was insulting the magistracy of Australia. I was asked for the reference and gave it. I did not state the law in my own view; I quoted the law from a case in the Court of Appeal in the United Kingdom and went no further than that. The babble coming from honourable senators opposite shows how they do not like to be shown up when they make wrong accusations. 
 I am totally at a loss to understand the Government's opposition to this motion. Is the Government so touchy on the question of price inflation that it believes that this Parliament should throw up its hands in despair and say that it can do nothing about it? In fact, it is almost suggested that there is something sinister about discussing the matter at all. After all, that is all that this motion suggests. It suggests that the matter be discussed in an appropriate body of the Senate, despite  Senator Cotton's  suggestion that this Committee, on which incidentally the Labor Party members are. a minority, would somehow become a committee which would attempt to fix even the price of lipstick. This absurdity was repeated by  Senator Carrick;  he repeated over and over that the Committee would be a price fixing body. I do not know how clear the Opposition has to make these motions, but for the guidance of honourable senators on the other side of the chamber who do not appear to have understood what we are seeking to achieve, let me read the motion to them. It is a suggestion that there be referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the question of the determination of prices which affect the structure of costs and prices in the Australian economy- 


 Senator Marriott suggests that I am in some way falsifying the motion. Apparently we have to spell it out in very simple language. 
I will read it and I will explain it to the honourable senator in simple language, and I would like him to pay attention because I hope he can understand. The motion reads: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the following matter - The determination of prices which affect the structure of costs and prices in the Australian economy and, in particular, of prices which are determined by foreign corporations or trading or  financial  corporations formed within the limits of the Commonwealth, or by corporations which enjoy, advantages under Commonwealth tariff, revenue, subsidy or other laws, or by corporations which have contracts with the Commonwealth. 
That the Committee recommend any legislative or administrative measures which should be taken by the Commonwealth to prevent unjustifiable price increases and to protect Australia from excessive inflation. 
If any honourable senators on the opposite side of the chamber do not understand that this is merely a suggestion that this mutter be examined, that witnesses be called to discuss the problems we are suggesting exist and that suggestions then be put to the Senate, I am afraid J have no chance of explaining the position to them in words, no matter how simple they be. 

 Senator Little pointed out in what I thought was a thoughtful and mostly constructive speech that this Committee will inquire merely into causes of rises in prices. Is there something sinister in this? Is there, as was suggested by  Senator Lillico,  some more important matter for this Committee to be examining at the present time? Do any honourable senators opposite disagree with their leader in the other place, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  or with the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  who suggest that the most important problem facing this country is inflation? Are they suggesting that one of the standing committees of the Senate could somehow be better engaged than in considering the problem of inflation? I have listened carefully to what has been said by honourable senators on the other side of the chamber. We have been confronted with this now very familiar tactic of attempting to draw a red herring across the trail by suggesting that there is some confusion on this side of the chamber about our policy, to suggest that we speak with many voices, and that somehow we do not know and cannot find out what we want to do about inflation or what our policy is. As I understand it, that is the suggestion that has come from  Senator Cotton, Senator Carrick  and, so far as I could understand him,  Senator Lillico.  At one stage  Senator Carrick  suggested that we should make some attempt to unravel the mysteries of Labor's policy. 
I suggest that if any confusion exists about where either of the major political parties stands on this question it is all on the other side of the chamber. If we attempt to unravel the policy of honourable senators opposite on inflation we find that it is a very tangled skein. Let us start firstly with the statements of the Prime Minister. Let us look at the record. Let us look at what the enlightened contributors to this problem who wish to stifle debate on the problem say on the question of inflation. I will start with what the grand panjandrum himself says. When the question of prices was raised in the other place by the Leader of the Opposition there,  Mr Whitlam,  who suggested the establishment of a prices justification tribunal which, by the way had once been advocated by the Treasurer when he occupied a previous portfolio, the Prime Minister replied: 
We on this side of the House have for long cherished the principle - and in practice we have applied it, too - that any attempt at price fixation creates bottlenecks and leads to the misallocation of resources and rather than cure inflationary pressures will probably increase them. 
We know that the Treasurer since he has been elevated to that position has backtracked on his previous notions about prices justification tribunals and that his wisdom is summed up in his reaction to the price rise in steel announced by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd when he said that it was a matter for the company's commercial judgment. Then we have the statements of an ex-Prime Minister - 1 refer to  Mr Gorton  - who as recently as 26th January 1972 was reported as suggesting that there should be a Federal prices and income policy to combat inflation. I am quoting from the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of that date.  Mr Gorton  is reported to have called on the Federal Parliament to get the power by referendum if necessary to implement such a policy. The article continues: 

 Mr Gorton also called for the setting up of a national council of trade unions, employers, consumers, and the Government to check wages and prices. 
If the National Parliament doesn't have the power to diminish wage and price increases, then it should get the power or try to get the power. 
I suggest that that is a little different from what we heard from the Prime Minister and the Treasurer. But that does not conclude the confusion in the Liberal Party ranks. Just last week we heard a contribution from an ex-Attorney-General on this question. 1 may say that he was a much better Attorney-General than the present one. I am referring to  Mr Hughes,  the honourable member for Berowra in another place. He said - I quote from the Hansard of the House of Representatives: 
There is in the community, I believe, at the present lime a strong sentiment, to which I for my part subscribe with firm conviction, that it is just not correct to place all or nearly all of the blame- 
As  Senator Lillico  just did -  for cost-push inflation on the activities of the trade union movement under the leadership of  Mr Hawke. 
He went on to say: 
I find it not altogether easy ... to see how the Government can persuade the electorate that we are doing all we ought to do and must do to stem the rising tide of cost-push inflation until such time as we have grappled with the task - enough time has gone by for us to have done this - of controlling effectively horizontal restrictive trade practices. 
I find it difficult to see how it is altogether easy for the Government to persuade the electorate that we are doing all we can to control unilaterally decided price increases by corporations enjoying a near monopoly position when all we seem to be able to do - and it is not very effective - is to issue pious pleas or anxious exhortations when a price rise is pending. Surely it is time for honourable members on this side of the House - 
He is referring, I remind honourable senators opposite, to their side of the Parliament -   to take stock of the position and to ask themselves why in this day and age we should bc - I do not think we should be - or they should bc opposed to the idea of a prices justification tribunal. 
That is not all, either. Another Minister of the Government - I refer to  Mr Wentworth  - made statements on this as recently as 12th February 1972. I will quote what he said because  Senator Webster  insists that he get the obsessima verba. The 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 12th February 1972 states: 
The Federal Minister for Social Services,  Mr Wentworth,  called last night for a price and wage freeze throughout Australia during 1972. 
He said the State  Permiers  at their meeting wilh the Commonwealth on Monday should unanimously offer the Commonwealth the constitutional power to impose the freeze for this year and no longer'. 
Armed wilh power over wages and prices lbc Federal Government would be able to take effective action to halt inflation. 
Another prominent Liberal,  Sir Robert  Ask in, hastened to express his assent to that proposition. The Prime Minister's reaction to  Mr Wentworth's  suggestion was to suggest that  Mr Wentworth  spoke mostly from his heart rather than his head. We on this side would like a Prime Minister who would speak from either place, but God knows where he does speak from.. 
If I may, I shall sum up the Government's attitude on prices insofar as I have been able to discern any intelligible attitude. It speaks with many voices, but officially its attitude is that price fixing, price control or price justification is out. The worst that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd or any other large concern has to fear is a tongue in the cheek regret from the Prime Minister, a comment from the Treasurer that it is a matter of their own commercial judgment, approval from the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  the Leader of  Senator Webster's  Party, and an almost tearful paean of praise from  Senator Carrick.  I submit that all this confusion in the Government's ranks underlines the need for a consideration by a reputable committee of this chamber and the need for that committee to undertake the kind of inquiry that we are suggesting. We are suggesting that the committee should probe what  Senator Little  has referred to as the mystery of inflation. We on this side are not suggesting for one moment that we have any magical panacea for this problem. We frankly confess that it is a problem which, having mystified the economists of the world, does not appear to us to be one of a ready and immediate solution. Is this not a reason why all the resources of this chamber should be put to use? Should not the appropriate committee with power to call witnesses and with power to consider overseas experience and overseas attempts to solve the problem undertake this inquiry? 
The confusion and the helplessness which the Government expresses - a confusion amounting to despair, to abdicating any attempt to deal with the problem of prices - are nol matched by its very positive belief that it knows what to do about wages, lt believes that wages should be regulated by law. Negotiated over-award payments are something evil. The Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Lynch,  in adumbrating the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act towards the close of the previous session of Parliament suggested that if unions and employers negotiated agreements with which the Government did not approve the Government would go behind those negotiations and would appeal to a full bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to sei them aside. If the unions show any muscle by striking they are threatened with penalties - something different to the pious regret which is the worst that unilaterial price rises by great monopolies get from the Government and. al the worst, approval by the Leader of the Country Party. The Government has intervened actively before the Arbitration Commission in an attempt to affect the judgment of the Commission. There was the determined statement by the Prime Minister, on the eve of the day on which he expressed pious regret about BHP rises, to quarantine rises in a particular State and to take action to see that there was not a flow on to other States. In other words, wages should be controlled but prices should be left to be determined by the great monopolies. 
As  Senator Murphy  pointed out, this has nothing to do with the free play of a market economy. We have gone a long way beyond that. I think that history has moved a little too fast for some gentlemen opposite. This is not the play of the market place. This is unilateral fixing of prices by people who are powerful enough to do so. lt is in that context that our motion was moved. If the Prime Minister concedes that there should be a White Paper on the subject, as he did on the day on which he made the statement which I quoted earlier, if he believes that there is something to talk about and if he believes that the Treasury should go to work to produce this White Paper setting out the pros and cons of wage control policies as practised in other countries - weighted, by the way, against such attempts, as he indicated - surely it is appropriate for us to avail ourselves of the forms of the Senate to explore the manner in which prices are determined. That is all that the motion suggests, lt does not suggest that the committee should set itself up as a wage fixing tribunal. The reference is a limited one. 
I do not know whether  Senator Lillico  directed his remarks to the constitutional propriety of the reference of the matter to the committee, but, despite what may have been said about the power conferred on Parliament by the decision of the High Court in the concrete pipes case, I refer him to what was said by  Mr Hughes,  a distinguished lawyer and a man who was considered by the Government to be sufficiently equipped to hold the position of Attorney-General. In referring to the concrete pipes case  Mr Hughes  said: 
I  agree with the Leader  of  the Opposition  (Mr 
Whitlam) that as  a  result of the new found extent of the Commonwealth corporations power the Commonwealth Government, if it had the will, could find the way to introduce legislation to produce such a result. One always speaks tentatively in the field  of  constitutional law, knowing that decisions in the High Court go sometimes &lt;me way or another way on a very fine balance  of  numbers. However,  I  stilt think it is worth acting on the basis that there is power to introduce in relation to trading and financial corporations - those corporations that are mentioned in the corporations power - a system of prices justification. 

 Mr Hughes is not the only distinguished lawyer in the Government's ranks. It also has  Senator Greenwood,  the AttorneyGeneral, and  Mr N.  H. Bowen who is being spoken of in some quarters as a future High Court judge. Have any of these distinguished lawyers said: 'No,  Mr Hughe-  is wrong. We do not believe that the new interpretation of the High Court does confer this power on the Federal Parliament'? If they believe so it is about time that we heard from them.I suggest that these men are sufficiently versed in the law to know that this alibi has disappeared for them, that they can no longer shelter behind the plea of constitutional inadequacy and that there is constitutional power to refer the matter to the committee and for it to recommend, if it thought fit, legislation which would be within the constitutional power of the Parliament. 
I detect that what we are witnessing in all these alibis, in all these red herrings and in all these attempts to say that we do not know where we arc going is the basic insincerity of the Government in its approach to prices. This was illustrated abundantly - I do not need to go through it all again - by the Government's attitude to the BHP price rise. The Government knew about it when the Prime Minister was to meet the Premiers. He said nothing about it. There was a series of equivocal statements as to what was said to BHP when the Government was told the rises were coming. There was a letter from the Prime Minister to BHP. Tt contained sentences which suggested disapproval of what the company was doing, but I suggest that it probably contained other sentences which nullified the effect of the ones which were quoted, otherwise we would have seen the letter. The letter should have been produced but despite our requests it has never been produced. This Government is not sincere on the matter of prices. This was illustrated in another way by the Government's attitude towards the trade practices legislation which has had abundant time to show whether it can work any effect on the economy and in breaking down the practices which have the effect of prepetuating price rises and unconscionable price fixation by corporations which are powerful enough to do so. 
We all recall that in the last session of this Parliament the Trade Practices Bill came before this Senate again because of the action of the High Court in finding it invalid. An attempt was made to patch it up. We on this side suggested that the opportunity should be availed of to put some teeth into the Bill and we introduced amendments to deal with monopolies and predatory price fixation. The Government found all sorts of reasons to say why this was an inappropriate amendment. When it was carried and went to the other place it was sent back and ultimately the amendment was rejected here. During the recess there came to my notice an illustration of the necessity for this sort of legislation. I heard of the case of a man who had set himself up in the Gosford area in the ready mixed concrete business. He had bought himself a couple of agitator trucks at considerable cost - something like $60,000 or $70,000. He was doing very well in the district. After he had been operating for a certain time representatives of 3 of the major ready mixed concrete companies in this State visited him and informed him that they proposed to drive him out of business. They immediately engaged in a price cutting war. For a brief period they reduced their price by several dollars a square yard until he was driven out of business. 
One of the amendments which we on this side had attempted to introduce into the Trade Practices Act was designed to meet that sort of immoral conduct which is prevalent throughout the community. This Government had an opportunity to do something along these lines, but what did it do7 It took this provision out of the Bill. I say that this Government proves by this action and by its attempt to squash the sort of initiative which we on this side are taking in this motion that it is basically insincere in any attempt to control prices. I suggest that we should let this Parliament, and especially the Senate, indicate to the people, that it is not merely wringing its hands about inflation but, within its constitutional powers, is examining the problem seriously in an attempt to find an answer. That is what this motion is about, and that is all that it is about. I suggest that this matter has been thoroughly ventilated now. There has been ample opportunity for debate from all sections of the chamber. I move: 
That the question be now put. 
-I ask for leave to make a statement. 
Supplementing the remarks made by  Senator Murphy  on this aspect of the Bill, I wish to cite one or two examples that fall within my own experience in the civil sphere which, I think, underline the dangers of extending these provisions into the criminal sphere. As  Senator Murphy  said, even though similar provisions do exist in relation to civil actions in New South Wales, they are in fact very rarely availed of in practice. Let us look at the terms of clause 29 and consider what could be done pursuant to that provision in a civil action. Let us take as an example a common law action for damages for personal injury occurring at the steel works at Port Kembla. I choose that example because in my own personal practice T have conducted many such actions. 
A material witness to the events that are the subject of the action might be, say, a Yugoslav migrant. The steel works at Port Kembla employ many such people. Before they come to this country, some of them are Macedonian peasants with no acquaintance whatsoever with secondary industry, no knowledge of the language and completely strange in their new environment. Such a man might be a witness of an industrial accident. Shortly after such an accident occurs, it is the practice for a safety officer or an industrial officer employed by the company to investigate the circumstances of the accident, to take statements often with the assistance of an interpreter and to reduce those statements to writing, have them signed and witnessed by a justice of the peace and preserved against the possibility of just such litigation. 
It also frequently happens in practice there, or it has in the past, that such people do not stay in Australia a great length of time; they go back to their mother country. Under clause  29,  such a statement would fulfil the requirements of this Bill. It would come into the category defined by that clause. Clause  29  provides:  1 Where direct oral evidence of a fact would be admissible in a proceeding-- 
Clearly the evidence contained in such a statement would be admissible as oral evidence if the man were persent:   . . a statement made by a person in a document tending to establish that fact is, subject to this Parliament, admissible in a proceeding as evidence of that fact if the maker of the statement had personal knowledge of the matters dealt with in the statement-- 
As indeed he would -  and if-- 
the maker of the statement is outside Australia and it is not reasonably practicable to secure his attendance as a witness; 
the maker  of  the statement cannot with reasonable diligence be found. 
He may have moved away from the Port Kembla area and gone somewhere else leaving no forwarding address. All of these requirements would be fulfilled. Counsel for the company, after the plaintiff had given his evidence tending to show that he had been injured by some negligent act of the company, could produce this statement and it would be. unobjectionable at the suit of the plaintiff except, I admit, for the safeguard which is provided by clause  32  of this Part which gives the presiding judge a discretion to reject such a statement if he decides that it was made under certain circumstances. 
As I say, in practice I have not known counsel for the company, even though I have known counsel in many cases, to be armed with just such a statement to make an application to tender such a statement in evidence. For some reason or other, I have never encountered this. Perhaps the reason is the one suggested by  Senator Durack,  namely, that counsel in New South Wales are so steeped in rules against the admission of hearsay that it has not occurred to them to try to introduce such a statement 
I am confining myself to my own experience. But, in any event, under this clause I can see that there would be an opportunity for an enterprising counsel who was able to argue his way around any of the prohibitions or hedging in provisions contained in clause  32  to get such a statement into evidence. I believe that it would be a most dangerous thing for such a statement to be injected into the transcript of the case and to be considered as part of the case. I say that for obvious reasons. This is the sort of evidence which requires to be very severely tested in cross-examination. I am not reflecting in any way on the character or veracity of the type of person about whom I am talking. But because of his cultural background and the circumstances in which he finds himself, such a man may put into a statement matters which just will not stand up under cross-examination. He may have been over-borne, not in any deliberate or bullying sense, by the circumstances in which he makes his statement. He may feel that his job is in peril in some way if he does not give the answers which are, suggested to him by a foreman. If the evidence is to have any real weight, I suggest that it would need to be made by the man in person and would need to be tested in cross-examination. I would not like to see that sort of evidence admitted in a civil action and I say that, in practice, I have not seen such evidence tendered. But, as  Senator Murphy  has said, even though we feel these inhibitions about this sort of evidence even in a civil proceeding, we do not feel that there is an absence of safeguard. 
For instance, I have pointed to clause  32.  I would hope that the average judge would avail himself of the provisions of clause  32  to receive any such evidence with great caution. But a criminal trial is a different matter. We feel that, because of the dangers that are inherent in the admission of this type of document into evidence, we would like to see these provisions tested in the civil jurisdiction for some time before they were extended to the criminal jurisdiction. In this Part there is another clause - clause  31 -  which imposes some restrictions on the admission  of  such a document, but we consider that it does not go far enough. The clause limits the admissibility to a certain set of circumstances which would not meet all the circumstances that could arise. We do not think that clause 31 provides sufficient safeguard for us to feel happy about this kind of code applying to criminal proceedings. 
On this matter, looking at it from the aspect of public policy, there is one other consideration which, I suggest, has to be taken into account. That is that if the law is to compel unwilling spouses to give evidence it may be introducing a greater evil than the short-comings of the law which the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  has pointed to and which he says he seeks to correct by this provision. He asks: Why should a case arise in which a plaintiff may have given a false account of events and that false account may be thrown out of court by the truthful evidence of his spouse who may, if this law is passed, be called upon to testify? But, surely as a matter of reality, the introduction of this provision could be said to be fostering the giving of false evidence. 
It is well known among practitioners that the matrimonial courts are the scenes of perjury on a grand scale. I am not telling any secrets out of court. Every layman and every lawyer knows that so absurd are our matrimonial laws - they are held in such low regard by the community; they are so completely out of tune with modern reality - that they are flouted day in and day out by respectable people who otherwise would never think of telling lies, let alone telling lies on oath. I instance the provisions on collusiveness. Everybody knows that a great majority of undefended divorces are collusive divorces. Everybody knows that false evidence is constantly given in the matrimonial courts. Are we not perhaps fostering the proliferation of this social evil? Are we not inviting it by putting an unwilling spouse in the agonising position of being compelled to give evidence against the interests of the person in the world who may be closest to her? Are we not inviting that spouse to deviate from the truth? Is not the proposed provision substituting a greater social evil for the social evil which the Attorney-General says this measure is designed to eradicate? 
 It takes no effort of imagination to get back into the Kiplingesque world of  Senator Wright  in which all actions are to be measured in the world of embattled forces, goodies and baddies, traitors and heroes. 
Yes. What  Senator Wright  is doing and what  Senator Greenwood  is doing in a more realistic, less picturesque and less melodramatic manner is fighting a desperate rearguard action in the face of the express opinion of the Senate that the death penalty is a barbarous, outmoded, and uncivilised way of punishing people who have committed a dreadful offence. What does it amount to when we analyse what it is that the 2 honourable senators have said? Does it not come down to this, that some murders are more horrible than other murders? Certainly the instances that  Senator Wright  has mentioned are such as to make any of us feel indignation. We on this side of the chamber, no matter what  Senator Wright  may feel tonight or on any other occasion, are no more pleased with traitors than he is. We also view wilh horror the sort of instances that he has given of actions by cowardly men which may imperil the lives of thousands of their countrymen. We think that action of this kind is awful and that it should be punished. What we do not agree with is that we deter someone from doing this or prevent this from hap- pening by doing the evil barbarous thing of putting that man to death. This issue has been debated philosophically in the Senate. 
We have heard learned and thoughtful contributions from men like  Senator Carrick,  men who have studied the matter in depth and who have considered every type of crime. Anybody who listened to  Senator Carrick  's speech on this matter must have been impressed with the fact that he had considered every aspect of the crime of murder.  Senator Carrick  had looked at every sort of horrendous action for which men are usually tried and, hitherto in the more primative uncivilised corners of the world, put to death. Thare is nothing new in the instances which have been brought to our notice tonight by super-patriots like  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Wright.  That is not to denigrate patriotism.  Senator Greenwood  laughs. Does he want to stack his patriotic record up against mine? ls this what he is suggesting? I would remind him of the old saying that patriotisim is the last refuge of  a  scroundrel. 
I am not taking refuge and I do not need to take refuge in it. If we want to talk about patriotism 1 will compare my record wilh anybody's. We have as good a patriot as there is in this chamber in the figure of  Senator Carrick.  I know he will be embarrassed to have me refer to it, but at the risk of embarrassing him, 1 say he is a man who should be entitled to feel as much indignation about, acts of treason, about actions that have let the country down, as anybody in this chamber. He. having looked at all these dreadful acts by human beings, comes down on the side of mercy. We have a young senator opposite who is a super-patriot but who has never heard a shot fired in anger. I do not think he should stack his record up against  Senator Carrick's  or against mine. If we are talking about treason or about murders outside the ordinary private scale of murders, these have already been taken into account by those of us who are opposed to taking the life of a human being in reprisal for the most dreadful conduct by human beings. 
We believe that history shows that this is not only uncivilised but also that it does not work. It does not eradicate the crime of murder. It really makes my gall rise to sec this man over here, who applauded the murder of thousands of people in Vietnam, being so tender about the taking of a single life as to advocate its punishment by the taking of another life by the State. I really find this the height of hypocrisy. All I say about what has been said by  Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood  tonight is thai it is a last desperate rearguard action in line with the action that  Senator Greenwood  took in trying to have this matter referred to a committee so that it would be delayed and buried. He hoped that it would never hit the deck. It has hit the deck in this chamber tonight and honourable senators clearly have expressed their will. But now  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Wright  are attempting to whittle down that expression of will by the Committee. We on this side of the chamber agree that some murders are more horrible than others, that there are murders more horrible in war time than in peace time, but some dreadful murders also occur in peace time. We who have thought of this and who have adopted a philosophical attitude towards the taking of human life have considered all these examples and, having taken all these matters into account, believe that the taking of life by the state is still impermissible under any circumstances. Therefore we reject any exceptions that may be suggested by  Senator Wright  and  Senator Greenwood  as a last desperate rearguard action against this Bill. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Development aware that the recent closure of collieries in the Gunnedah district of New South Wales has thrown 120 miners out of work? In view of the Government's stated concern over rural unemployment, will he give consider?ation to the allocation of special funds through the Joint Coal Board to enable recommencement of mining operations at these collieries? 
I shall make a few brief remarks about the Income Tax Assessment Bill. I think it is apparent that this industry investment allowance has become a sort of familiar bellwether of the fortunes of this Government. The allowance was first introduced in 1962 after the Government was frightened out of its wits by its near defeat in 1961. The allowance was suspended a year ago when the Government gave us to understand that the major threat to this country was inflation and that demand must in some way be discouraged. The suspension of the allowance was held out as some sort of antiexpansionary move. Now, with the Government in an even worse position than it was 10 years ago, apparently the panic button has been pressed again and the investment allowance is restored. There is a strange logic in this course of events as we are told in the confused economic pronouncements from Government spokesmen that inflation is running at a higher rate today than it was a year ago when the investment allowance was suspended. Despite what  Senator Guilfoyle  has said about the dire warnings of Professor Hayek on the effects of inflation it is hard to resist the conclusion from this course of conduct by the Government that, in fact, the fight against inflation has been abandoned. Or perhaps it was a mistake to suspend the investment allowance in the first place. 
In any event we are not told how the restoration of this investment allowance (ils in with the Government's evidently considered opinion a year ago that the maintenance of the investment allowance was some sort of stimulus or encouragement to continued inflation. It is quite clear that the restoration of the allowance is a triumph of pressure from the Chamber of Manufactures. Perhaps we on this side of the House are not being too cynical in suggesting that its restoration is not completely unrelated to the state of the Government parties' funds. 
No matter what it may be called, this investment allowance is a disguised subsidy to manufacturers, a benefit of $S0m to $60m annually to those industries which happen to install any new plant after the commencement of the operation of this measure which, I understand, is the 14th of this month. It certainly is not surprising to me that it has been applauded by the representatives of the manufacturing interests who were referred to by  Senator Guilfoyle.  The investment allowance is being restored under the guise of being a stimulus to industry but surely it is more appropriate to describe it as a hallmark of the thoughtless, mindless, stop-go economic policies of this Government. It is being restored blindly without any plan and is being applied unselectively. It will apply only to plant, whether in the declining motor car industry, in the cosmetics industry or in the brewery industry. This is not being done on any selective basis or in relation to any proper plan of balanced economic development. 
We are told that it is supposed to help to increase employment but there is no discrimination between labour intensive and capital intensive industries in the allocation of the allowance. No evidence is provided to show that it will increase confidence or will increase employment. The Chamber of Manufactures and Bank of New South Wales joint survey issued recently showed that some 66 per cent of manufacturers answered the questionnaire put out to them. The survey indicated that they were producing below capacity. It may be asked: 'Who will risk planned expansion in the present climate?' 
The most serious criticism, of course, is that the Government, in restoring the investment allowance, has shown no notion of priorities. For instance, why was not the allowance made available only if it were for plant manufacture in Australia? Why not only for those industries which substantially are Australian owned? In short, the Government seems to have missed a golden opportunity to use this investment allowance as a tool to secure the sort of economic development we want. No evidence is provided by the Government in support of the restoration of the allowance as to which companies are going to employ more men because of this legislation. Has the Government made any survey in this regard or has it just blindly succumbed to pressure and hopefully introduced this measure because certain people talked about it as being one of the things which might restore confidence? In other words, is this measure just a stab in the dark? Is it the sort of reflex action we are accustomed to getting from the Government whenever it finds itself in trouble? Has this been done with the encouragement or support of the Treasury? We have been told nothing about this. 
I believe we are entitled to assume that the Government merely has reacted to its own electoral difficulties and has done something which will please some people upon whom it is accustomed to rely for support and is hoping for the best. This legislation is not an illustration of economic forethought, planning or economic wisdom; it is just the, latest illustration that we have a government which, in economic affairs, is a stop-go government. This Government took away this investment allowance in the hope that that action would cure inflation. Then evidently it forgot about the inflation problem. Now it is reintroducing this allowance in the hope that it will cure unemployment. No evidence has been supplied to this chamber that this legislation has been effective in achieving either objective. For that reason I support the amendment moved by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee). 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to a statement made by the Minister in the Senate towards the end of last session, informing the Senate of the provisions which, it was then stated, the Government proposed to include in its forecast legislation for the supervision of general insurance companies in Australia. Is the Minister in a position to assure the Senate that this legislation will be introduced during the current session? 
I am not in a position to state with precision the legislative programme for this series of sittings. I will seek the information from the Treasurer and respond to the question later. 
 I agree that this Bill has many positive features which we on this side of the Senate applaud. It certainly is appropriate that, with the Education Department of South Australia bowing out of the obligation which it has accepted up to now to provide teachers for the Northern Territory and with the possibility that the Department of Education in New South Wales will do the same in respect of the responsibility which it has hitherto shouldered to provide teachers for the Australian Capital Territory, the Commonwealth Government should set up a teaching service of its own. That is what this Bill sets out to do. I also applaud the acceptance by the Commonwealth of a continuing responsibility to do something about supplying a pool of teachers for the needs of Papua New Guinea which is in the process of emerging into a new status but which obviously will need some continuing assistance from the Commonwealth in the early days of getting on its feet. The Government further has faced up to its responsibility in the Pacific region by accepting the responsibility of supplying teachers to territories other than those under its direct control or Papua New Guinea. 
Another matter which has been adverted to by previous speakers, especially those who participated with me in the inquiry into the Commonwealth's role in teacher education by the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, which- has just recently completed its inquiry and tabled its report in the Senate, is the separation of the authority which has responsibility for the teaching service from the authority which is actually responsible for running the schools. But I think that I sense in what was said by those speakers a misunderstanding of the application of that principle to the present situation. In the deliberations of the Senate Standing Committee, expert after expert who gave evidence before the Committee constantly stressed that it was not desirable that the education departments of the States should have control of the training of teachers who later would man the schools run by those education departments. These experts stressed the desirability of setting up autonomous teacher training institutions throughout New South Wales. 
I detect both in the second reading speech of the Minister and in what has been said by speakers in this debate tonight some sort of extension of that principle into a suggestion that the teaching service which is being set up by this Bill should not in any way concern itself with the actual training of teachers but should be content to draw on the other sources which are at present available in the community; they are the universities, colleges of advanced education, teacher colleges and so on. It seems that to do otherwise would in some way be breaching the principle applied by the experts to whom I have referred and which is now enshrined in the report I am speaking of because, as is made clear in the Minister's second reading speech, the teaching service which is set up by this Bill will not bc part of the Department of Education and Science. 
The Department of Education and Science is at present responsible for the operation of community schools in the Northern Territory and as such is an authority under the Bill. As the Minister said, it is his belief that there are advantages in the teaching service being separate from any authority responsible for the actual conduct of schools. This teaching service will be separate from the authorities which actually conduct the schools, and therefore I can see no reason why in the future it should not concern itself also with the actual training of teachers. It should not adopt a policy of hands off the existing institutions and should not wash its hands of any responsibility for training teachers, lt should not merely rely on getting them by advertising or by recruit ug them from the existing institutions. I can see some advantage in the future in perhaps setting up a teacher training centre of some kind in the Northern Territory and I can see no breach of the principle we are discussing if the teacher training centre should actually be under the auspices of the teacher training service set up by this Bill. 
We concede that this is merely an enabling Bill which does not set out to give in detail everything which is ultimately sought to be achieved by this measure, but we express some disappointment that after - using the Minister's words - 'the drafting of this Bill has taken some time and considerable effort', the Government has come up with a Bill which is such a skeleton. We are disappointed that the Government should have left the fleshing out of this skeleton entirely to the making of regulations. We can see the difficulties. We can see that a teaching service in its infancy cannot be expected to foresee all of the problems which may confront it. We are aware that it may not be possible at the present stage to insert in the Bill everything that we would like to see in it, but I join with honourable senators who have already expressed the hope that in drafting the regulations the Government will not lose sight of the lessons that were drawn after the exhaustive hearing of evidence by the Standing Committee of the Senate to which I have referred. 
As both  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Davidson  have said, the schools of the future will not be anything like the schools of the past or the present. All of the experts we listened to spoke with one voice. They said that education is really just beginning to face up to its problems; that fundamental questions are being asked about what is being sought to be achieved by education. Many of the experts frankly admitted that the answers are not yet known. For my part, I hope that the Minister, whoever he may be in the future, when he is drafting the regulations which will put flesh on this skeleton will have regard not only to the inquiry which is mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech but also to the lessons and messages enshrined in what I say, with all due modesty as a participant in the deliberations of the Committee, is a very learned and helpful report. 
Some of the specific criticisms that have been levelled at the amendment moved from this side of the House do not really stand up. I have in mind particularly the criticism of the first paragraph of our amendment which calls for the provision of a commission of 3 members of the 
Commonwealth Teaching Service, one of whom shall be elected by the teachers. It is said that the move is unjustified on 2 grounds, firstly because it is possibly envisaged in the spirit of the Bill itself, and secondly, that because the Teaching Service in its infant stages will not be large, it will not be necessary to have more than one commissioner. 
This does not seem to me to be a very valid reason. After all, there is widespread movement in the community for participation, especially in spheres such as education, of wide layers of the community. It would be very hard to imagine any government's setting up a body relating to architects and not having any architects on it. It is even more ridiculous to imagine a body concerned with doctors which would exclude doctors from its management. We can see no reason, even though the service in its infancy will bc small and will not have very great tasks to perform, why it should not get off on the right foot from the beginning. We believe that it is beyond argument that the deliberations and practical work of such a service would be assisted by having at least one practising teacher on its governing body. 
One other matter particularly referred to is the alleged misunderstanding on our part of the provision in the Bill for accouchement leave for teachers. It is suggested that the Bill already provides for everything that is insisted on as a desirable standard by the. International Labour Organisation code. It was said that the Minister had made this assertion in the other place, that it had not been contradicted by us, and that we carried some onus to disprove the Minister's assertion if we were to make out any grounds for the cogency of this amendment. I have referred to the debate in the other place and on my reading our critics have -not correctly stated the position. 
The International Labour Organisation Convention No. 103 which, incidentally, has not been ratified by the Australian Government, provides that on production of a medical certificate an officer - in this case a pregnant teacher - is entitled to maternity leave on pay of at least 12 weeks, there being a compulsory period of 6 weeks before the confinement and 6 weeks afterwards. It is true that clause 33 of the Bill provides for an amount of leave at least as generous as that requirement. 
That is my understanding. I do not have it before me. I am open to correction. I understand that that is what the international Labour Office recommendation states. If that is not the case I withdraw what I just said. Is it not the case? 
In that case. 1 stand corrected, lt was my understanding that the requirement was that it should bc on pay. 
In any event, I would like to point out that clause 33 certainly does not provide that the amount of leave granted would include any compulsory payment for 12 weeks leave. That would depend on the amount of sick leave standing to the credit of the officer in question. If those honourable senators on this side of the. chamber who have raised this objection are wrong about thai requirement of the International Labour Office, the misunderstanding has sprung from that point. 
There is only one other specific point in the Bill to which I would like to make reference. It is contained in clause 20 of the Bill which seems not only to be archaic but also to contain an internal contradiction. This is a clause which crops up in Bill after Bill which is presented to this chamber dealing with people who become servants of the Commonwealth. It contains the requirement, first of all, that an officer shall be a British subject. This is contradicted in another sub-clause of the same clause. Clause 20 (2.) provides that an officer shall be a British subject. Sub-clause. (3.) gives the Commissioner discretion to employ somebody who is not a British subject. I would suggest that especially in the recruitment of teachers the insistence - it is not really insisted upon and should not be there at all - that an applicant for an office in a teaching service should be a British subject is quite unreal. Surely one of our requirements in the near future as we expand our contacts in the area in which we live and in which we shall have to come to terms will be for teachers of languages spoken in the area. Are the Indonesian, Chinese and Japanese people who may happen to be living in this country but who obviously are not by definition British subjects - I mention also Frenchmen, Hungarians and others in case some objection may be taken to the examples 1 have given - to be excluded from opportunities in this Service merely because they are not British subjects? As I said, there is a concession in this clause. This is not a requirement on which the Teaching Service will be able to insist. 1 have referred already to the contradiction between subclause (3.) and sub-clause (2.). 
There is also this absurd proposition, in my view, that anybody seeking office in the Commonwealth Public Service should be required to take an oath or make an affirmation. This is tied up with this question of race, of being a British subject. I suggest that it is something which draftsmen of future Acts of this kind could well look at and omit. It adds nothing to the effectiveness of such a Service to have people going through this solemn procedure of taking an oath or making an affirmation. The larger corporations in this community do not insist on anything like this, and I suggest that it is out of date for this Government to be doing this sort of thing. 
Has the Minister for Health made application to the Australian Broadcasting Commission to appear on a programme such as 'Monday Conference' in order that he may have an opportunity to refute publicly the claims of  Mr Hayden  and to submit himself, as  Mr Hayden  submitted himself, to crossexamination on the subject of national health by experts on the subject? 
I was not invited to appear on an Australian Broadcasting Commission programme last night. I am not critical of that. I have been invited previously to appear with other people on ABC programmes and I have declined. I have also been invited to appear on an ABC programme in relation to the matter that is currently being considered by  Mr Justice  Mason and I have declined, for the same reason that I have previously declined similar invitations. I have a large portfolio to administer. In my own time and in my own way I will make my statements publicly in relation to any matters associated with my portfolio. I must admit that I have great reservations about the performance of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in the political arena. This is a view which I express personally and I do not go around the corner to express it. I have great reservations about the political intervention on the part of the ABC as a national station. I also have great reservations about the ABC importing statements at news time at 7 o'clock which is supposed to be news time and not the time to canvass political matters. 
It is the oft repeated claim of the Government that its policy is to maintain a small, viable aircraft industry. This was stated in October last by the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  when there was a debate on a subject such as the one we are debating today, and it was repeated by the Minister today. But, he says, it is in the nature of the aircraft industry that it is characterised by unavoidable peaks and troughs. At the same time he admits that work levels in the industry are largely dependent on defence orders. This is really an admission that the Government does not have a coherent, continuing defence policy, but that in this, as in other spheres, it procedes in fits and starts. The Minister admits that the industry is at present going through a trough, but, to quote his inimitable jargon, endeavours are being made to overcome the problem'. This, of course, is one of those delightfully vague phrases that are used to fob off criticism, and it raises the question why there is any need for troughs at all. 
We know, of course, as everybody knows, that aircraft become obsolete and have to be replaced by more modern aircraft. But does there have to be a hiatus in this process? Why is it not possible for a Government with foresight to plan and be ready to proceed wilh production of an aircraft coincidental with the cessation of production of another aircraft? An interesting case in point is the Project N, which has been referred to by earlier speakers. As was pointed out, Project N is a short take-off and landing light-utility turbo-prop aircraft capable of carrying about 13 passengers. It is the first wholly designed and built aircraft in the past 20 years. 
On 21st December last the 'Australian' newspaper carried a story purporting to claim that some of the design staff of the Project N aircraft had resigned from the Government Aircraft Factories in Melbourne, and that more resignations were imminent. This story said there were about 60 members in the Project N team and officials there were concerned that unless the Federal Government soon gave the green light for production of the turboprop aircraft, a fair proportion of the team would resign. The manager of the Government Aircaft Factories,  Mr Churcher,  was quoted as saying: 
This must be regarded as serious. The morale of the. professional team and workers is low. If for some reason the Project N production programme is not approved by the Government it will be serious for GAF and for the whole of the aircraft manufacturing industry in Australia. 
Yet today the Minister states that although the 2 prototypes of this aircraft have been tested and found satisfactory, the Government has not yet committed itself to production of the aircraft. We on this side, as indeed anybody else who is following this subject, must ask the question, why not? Why does the industry have to sink into a trough? Why are skilled men dispersed through frustration because the Government in this, as in everything else, takes a long while to make up its mind? 
On 12th February this year the 'Sydney Morning Herald' reported that the Army was seeking Federal Government approval to buy between 25 and 34 military versions of the Australian designed and manufactured Project N aircraft. The report went on to state that deliveries would be made over a number of years. It described the plane in the way I have already described it, and mentioned that it had a potential military and civil use and that it had beendeveloped by the Government Aircraft Factories in Melbourne. The report stated further: 
Failure of the Government to order a production run has been causing great concern in the local aircraft industry which is desperate for orders. 
The main reason for the delay has been the reluctance of the Federal Treasury to approve more expenditure on the Project N until certificates of airworthiness have been issued for two machines now under tests. The Treasury also has been demanding evidence of the economics of the project, both from a military and commercial aspect. 
At present the cost of each aircraft to the Army could range from $250,000 to $400,000 depending greatly on the number of outside orders. 
The Army's decision, that it needs the aircraft to carry troops and supplies from short and rough runways should have a big influence on any Government decision to go ahead. 
Last December, the Minister for Defence,  Mr Fairbairn,  said interest dad been shown in the aircraft by local and overseas companies and also by a number of Government departments which use light aircraft. 
There have been reports since of more overseas interest in the Project N, notably from France. 
Today the Minister states that although the 2 prototypes have been tested and found satisfactory, the Government has not yet committed itself to production of the aircraft. Again, we ask, why not? Why does the industry have to sink into this trough before anything is done? At a time when the Government talks of stimulating the economy, why does it have to dither on this decision? Is it perhaps because there is some disagreement between the Ministers - between the Minister who has spoken today and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn). 
Another matter, to which I have not heard any reference today, is the HS1182 jet trainer that has been adopted by the Royal Air Force. On 30th October last the London Financial Times' carried a story from its Australian editor under the title Facing a crucial decision'. In part it reads: 
Within two months, the Australian Government must make a decision that is important not only to the future of the Royal Australian Air Force's requirements in jet trainers, but one which is crucial for the Australian aircraft industry. 
The Government has before it a proposal from Hawker de Havilland, the wholly-owned off-shoot of Hawker Siddeley, that it should join now in  a  joint manufacturing programme for the HS 1182 jet trainer that has been adopted by the Royal Air Force, though the aircraft design has yet to be settled in detail. 
The offer is one of collaboration m manufacture on the basis of the Australian end making some parts for the jet trainer, and also assembling, so that Australia would eventually produce about one-third of the known requirements of the British Government and, if the jet is adopted as the future trainer for the RAAF, of the local requirement. In total this would be about 250 aircraft. More important, the Australians would also have marketing rights for South East Asia for the aircraft, which can be used for combat. 
The Australian Government has long maintained that it wants to see a local aircraft industry flourish. Yet at present it is the very lack of government orders which is slowly choking the 3 aircraft manufacturers - Hawker, the privately owned Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government owned Government Aircraft Factory. Apart from a few Mirage jets, there has not been any major aircraft programme in Australia since the last Vampire rolled out of the Hawker factory in 1960. 
The report also states:  lt is not known just how much capital the Government will be required to find to join in the HS 1182 programme, but it is not considered to be great. It is known that the defence authorities here favour the HS 1182 and would want to follow the British decision. It is also a known fact that many South East Asian orders would follow once Australia made this choice, and they are attracted to the dual trainer-combat prospects of the HS 1182. 
The report concludes: 
The difficulty facing the Government is heightened by political and social problems raised by the withdrawal of troops from Vietnam, and the planned run-down that will follow. But politics and social decisions apart, the simple fact is that for the Australian aviation industry, Hawker De Havilland's proposals are important. On present thinking and planning, it offers the only tangible plan to keep the industry alive in what has become a make or break situation. 
That sounds like the kind of proposition in which the Government should be interested not only as a defence proposition but as a stimulus to our lagging local aircraft industry. Can the Minister say whether the report which I have just quoted is an accurate report? If so, if the project has been considered, what decision has been arrived at? If the report is not accurate, can he tell us whether there are any comparable projects under consideration? What the industry and the Opposition want is a clear cut Government statement of its intentions for the industry, no waffling political jargon such as 'endeavours are being made to overcome the problem*. I am sceptical of the Government's endeavours because I fear that it does not understand the problem. 
I preface my question, which 1 direct to the 
Attorney-General, by referring to a question on notice asked in another place by  Mr Enderby,  the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory, on 29th February concerning an incident at the Prime Minister's Lodge on 23rd December 1971. In that incident several shots were alleged to have been fired and an attempt made to use a petrol bomb.  Mr Enderby's  question was directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General in the other house and requested the AttorneyGeneral to publish a full report of what happened at the Lodge on that night.  Mr Enderby's  simple question was asked almost 10 weeks ago but remains unanswered. Will the Attorney-General favour the Senate with the reason for the unconscionable delay in supplying this information and indicate when a reply may be expected? 

 - Senator Hannan, who has just resumed his seat, made great play of his membership of a trade union. Perhaps it is not widely known that the union to which he belongs is Actors Equity Association of Australia. After watching his performance tonight all honourable senators can readily understand why he had to seek alternate employment. In the midst of his waffling speech he challenged senators on this side of the chamber to get back to the Bill. It was an odd challenge coming from him, but I propose to take him up on it. It is about time that the Senate got back to considering what is before it. The Bill is not one to improve industrial relations; it is one to improve the Government's fortunes. It is quite clear that, as far as the Government is concerned, industrial relations run a poor second to public relations. 
It is interesting to observe how the high principles which are supposed to inform the legislation took such a battering between the date of the statement of intent by the Minister for Labour and National 
Service  (Mr Lynch)  on 7th December last and the date of the introduction of the Bill. For example, a critical editorial in the Metral Trades Industry Association of Australia paper was enough to dissolve the Government's firm intention to do what the Minister stated to be its firm intention, namely to provide that 'a full bench of the Commission must review a conciliated award or order if the Commonwealth refers an award or order on the issue of public interests. The Commission will be empowered to confirm the award or order in the light of what is put to it or to make such changes as it deems necessary'. They were the firm words and the firm intention of the Government before any pressure was brought to bear on it. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
Tn my statement of 7th December, I indicated that the Goverment intended to provide that a Full Bench of the Commission must review a conciliated award if the Commonwealth referred such an award on the issue of public interest. After careful consideration- 
That is the Government's euphemism for after pressure from people whom we dare not offend' -  the Government has decided not to proceed with this proposal. This clearly indicates the responsible manner in which the Government has undertaken the task of reviewing the Act 
What months of careful thought and consultation should have made clear to the Government became apparent only when a powerful employers organisation trained its guns on the Government. 
Another great gap between principle and performance is to be found in the Government's provisions or lack of provisions as to compulsory unionism. Once more the brave words of  Mr Lynch  at the time of the statement of intent were a proclamation of the great menace of compulsory unionism in these words: 
While the Government has always encouraged the organisation of representative bodies of employers and employees and their registration under the Act and has encouraged workers to join their appropriate unions, it believes that coercive action to force people to join unions is wrong in principle. 
Let us note this recurring word 'principle' and let us see how the Government sticks to its principles. The Minister continued: 
It is contrary to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and it is a matter to which I will be referring in my proposals for amendments to the legislation. 
He also said: 
We wilt amend the provisions of the Act relating to registered organisations to prevent unions from enforcing compulsory unionism. 
Let us listen to what  Mr Lynch  had to say a little later, after his principles had had time to pass through the fire of the pressures that mean so much to the Government. In his second reading speech  Mr Lynch  said: 
Before turning to a new subject, I want to refer to the proposals as to compulsory unionism that 1 outlined in my statement on 7th December last. Since then, the Government has given very careful consideration to this matter. 
Once again the euphemism 'very careful consideration' means bowing to the pressures that mean votes.  Mr Lynch  came up with this conclusion: 
On balance, we are now of the view that disadvantages and practical problems associated with amendments of the nature we had in mind could outweigh the advantages. 
Why did he need the fulminations of the Democratic Labor Party to find out that compulsory unionism had disadvantages and difficulties? Once again we see that it is not principles that count with the Government, but the plain, shoddy, mundane consideration of votes. 
Another example of what pressure can do to the Government's principles is contained in the provisions dealing with amalgamations. Let me remind honourable senators that  Mr Lynch's  statement of intent of 7th December 1971 was made after months of consideration and after months of consultation with the unions and employers. It was determined after a most mature consideration of the subject. In his speech of 7th December the words amalgamate' and 'amalgamation' do not occur. Then we were confronted with the furore that came from the DLP over the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union - a great aggregation of workers who joined together under one banner. The amalgamation was approved by the employers and  Mr Lynch.  We must remember that  Mr Lynch  was forced into a corner by the approval of the employers and by the approval of such authoritative spokesmen of his principles as the 'Sydney Morning Herald' and he could not get off the limb onto which he had worked himself. He had said that he could see nothing wrong with the amalgamation, but the people on whom he depended for support did not like the amalgamation. He could not retreat from it. Instead he threw, as a sop to the Democratic Labor Party, the amalgamation provisions in the Bill which can be described only as a code to prevent union amalgamation. Is this an example of high principle? In this, as in every other aspect of the Bill, we observe the Government looking over its shoulder at the employers, keeping its ear cocked to the DLP and ignoring only the unions. Of course it has decided, as ever, that votes are to be garnered by putting the boot into the unions. 
Let us look at some of the provisions of the Bill. Firstly let us consider what is at the heart of the industrial problem in this country and at all the debate about the regulation of industrial matters - that is, the matter of strikes and sanctions. Let us get this matter of strikes in perspective before we decide whether the Government had any justification in doing what it has done in the BUI - that is, set the clock back in the matter of sanctions. As other speakers on this side have pointed out, serious and all as it may be, the time lost through strikes - half a day per man per year - is a drop in the ocean compared to the loss in production due to industrial accidents and due to the unnecessary time and production lost through the Governmentinduced unemployment which has plagued this country during the last year. If one thinks in terms of 60,000 men unnecessarily out of work over a period of a year and the production lost during that time one does not give a great deal of thought to the half day per man per year which is lost in strikes. Of course, if we want to put the matter into perspective I suggest that we should look to none other than the Minister for Labour and National Service himself and what he said in the statement of intent in December last. The Minister stated: 
Statistics compiled from ILO sources indicate that for the  5  years 1965 to 1969 the average annual number of man-days lost per 1,000 employees in the mining, manufacturing, construction and transport industries in Australia was 456, compared wilh 1,556 for Canada, 1,232 for the United States and 1,574 for Italy. Furthermore, most countries are showing a rising trend in time lost through industrial disputes. For example, the number of man-days lost in 1970 was at least 30 per cent higher in the United States, about 60 per cent higher in the United Kingdom and 100 per cent higher in New Zealand than in the previous year. 
In other words, there are 2 conclusions to be drawn from the figures from this impeccable source - the Minister for Labour and National Service - firstly, that this trend to increasing strikes is common to all advanced industrial countries. I suggest that it might be for the same reason that in all advanced industrial countries workers are confronted with the problem of wages chasing prices. They see no other way of making ends meet than to use whatever industrial muscle they have. The second conclusion to be drawn from  Mr Lynch's  figures is that the problem is less acute in Australia than it is in these other countries. 
In the face of this situation we find in the legislation before us an attempt to put the clock back, as I have said, on the matter of machinery for the settlement of industrial disputes and in the matter of sanctions which the Government seeks to have at its disposal to enforce its will on working men seeking wage justice. We have only to cast our minds back to the traumatic experiences of the metal trades strikes stemming from the decision of the Commission in the metal trades case at the end of 1968 which led to a rash of strikes early in 1969. Under the old bad unworkable sanction clauses in the Act - the old sections 109 and 111  -  an employer could automatically without any certificate from the  President  or anyone else rush along to the industrial court, get an order against a union and then proceed to have that union fined and loaded with heavy costs. There was a great rash of these strikes and a great rash of proceedings under section 109 until the Commission itself realised that it had made an awful mistake in the award which had caused this trouble. That was the award in which the Commission attempted to say that the minimum wage would be the maximum wage by inviting employers to absorb over-award payments they had been making up till then in the rises that had then been given. Later that practice went by the board. The Government itself acknowledged that these penalty provisions were unworkable. In 1970 it introduced the present section 32a which provides for an investigation of the facts on their merits when a strike occurs and for penalties to be imposed only at the discretion of the court when all of these merits had been investigated and nothing else appeared able to be done. 
Under proposed new section 33 which will replace section 32a all discretion is taken away from the court and now the presidential member who is considering the matter is not entitled to refuse an application for a certificate to proceed for a penalty unless he believes that the strike is on the verge of settlement. That is not the way to settle disputes. I suggest that the Government must know, with the experience it has, that this is not the way to settle disputes. I suggest that the purpose of this new inflexibility in the Bill is not to settle disputes; it is purely electoral. This action has been taken in order to enable this Government to pose - it is not a pose that  Senator Greenwood  finds difficult to adopt if we can judge from the smirk that is now spreading across his face - as the tough law and order Government. It is a scheme which is designed to intimidate the unions in the general interests that the Government has in imposing a wage freeze. 
Another similar step is the revival of the hoary unworkable strike ballots. This is based on the idea that men on the job have nothing to do with strikes. It is said that men go on strike - and I heard this echoed again last night by none other than the pundit from Tasmania,  Senator Lillico  - because of some wicked men up there in the union office who call them out on strike. One wonders how these men who do these things that are so contrary to the will of their members ever get to be re-elected. However, this is part of the mythology of this Government. It thinks that the cure is to have a strike ballot when men are talking about  a  strike because somehow or other this will get behind the backs of their wicked union officials. The Government ignores the evidence of history. It ignores the Donovan Report which investigated this matter in 1968 and which found that this sort of legislation is absolutely fruitless, especially in the case of short strikes, as are most strikes. How does one hold a ballot when men are out for a day, or a day and a half? 
In the United States and Canada it was found that when strike ballots were held the ballots overwhelmingly supported the strikes. Of course, once one held such  a  ballot and the men voted for it, what would be the result? One would have legitimised and extended the strike and made it more difficult to settle. I believe that this matter of strike ballots alone indicates either the total unreality of the Government's thinking, as instanced by the remarks of  Senator Lillico  last night, or its total cynicism. I prefer to think that the second is the real explanation. I do not believe that the Government is silly enough to think that this system will work. This is just a bit of window dressing or grandstanding. I believe that the Government has no intention of trying to apply these provisions. I would remind the Government that provisions such as this have been in the Act for many years and have been available to this Government. However, those provisions have been used only 3 times since 1928. The new provisions will make almost no change in the existing provisions. Why has the Government put these provisions in the Bill? I believe it has done it so that it can say to the public: We are the law and order Government. We are going to have strike ballots'. We say to the Government that it always had these provisions but has not used them. So this action is hypocrisy; it is a fraud. 
Another section of the Bill provides for the separation of conciliation and arbitration. I suggest to honourable senators that this is by far the most crass and pointless section of the Bill. Under the present system an arbitration commissioner takes over the conduct of a dispute. He gets the parties together and holds conferences. If they cannot settle, they proceed to arbitration. But it is the same man who is apprised of all the circumstances of the dispute. He has been with the parties attempting to knock their heads together. Of course all is not lost even when they go into arbitration. But under this scheme at a certain point after the conciliation commissioner - who is a completely separate individual, somebody from another planet compared to an arbitration commissioner - has failed to settle the matter he bows out and a different person altogether - the arbitration commissioner - takes over. In proposed new section 30 there is this curious and extraordinary provision which says that when  a  conciliation commissioner has bowed out of the proceedings he shall: 
. not disclose anything said or done in the conciliation proceedings concerning matters in dispute thai remain unsettled. 
This provision really makes me rub my eyes. What a wasted effort. This trained man who has sat down with the parties, perhaps for days, who knows all about the case and who now has to bow out of it cannot make available to the new person who takes over the matter anything of what he has learnt. The new person has to start from scratch. Is this going to expedite the settlement of industrial disputes? This is part of what is alleged to be the streamlining of the Act but which, in reality, is merely word and rhetoric. This is certainly a far cry from the aim of the Act which is set out in section  2  and which is, among other things, the settlement of disputes with a minimum of form and technicality. How can we take seriously the claim of this Government that this is a Bill for the settlement of industrial disputes when it introduces this unnecessary complication, this absurd obfuscation, into the conciliation and arbitration process. 
I do not have time to deal in detail with the matter of amalgamations. I shall merely reiterate what I said earlier and that is that in reality this rs a code for the prevention of amalgamations. This flies in the face of the recommendations of employers who have stated that they prefer to deal with a large, powerful union rather than with a multiplicity of unions, because employers learn in the course of their experience that if they have to sit around with  15  unions instead of one the proceedings are going to be prolonged. Of course, as everybody also knows, it is the proliferation of many unions which is the real cause of the great number of demarcation disputes which account for some  11  per cent of the disputes which occur in this country in the course of a year. But in the face of all this, in the face of the obviously common sense tendency in the community to amalgamate, the Government has confronted unions which wish to amalgamate with what amounts to an obstacle race. I make bold to say that any unions which are prepared to embark on the perilous, difficult and complex matter of amalgamation in the light of this code are very brave indeed. We, in office, as one of our first steps in dealing with this Act will certainly remove these absurd and reactionary principles which are inserted in relation to amalgamations. 
Other incidental clauses in the Bill are almost breathtaking in their implications. One to which I shall refer just in passing is proposed new section  153a  which creates an all time high in the intervention of government into the affairs of a voluntary organisation. We will be dealing with this proposed new section at the Committee stage. Briefly, it deals with the obligations of unions to disclose all their banking arrangements in readiness for a pounce by the Government if and when it can impose the penalties and fines which, up to now, it has not been able to collect and which, I suggest, despite this legislation it still will not be able to collect. Also we will be proposing alterations to the Principal Act. The Minister has claimed that he has embarked on a total and detailed recasting of the Act. That invites us to look at some of the matters in the existing Act which we would like to have changed. I shall not embark on them at the moment because my time is running out but I shall sum up in the brief time which I have. There have been major amendments to this highly important Act, one of the most important that govern our affairs, in the years  1947, 1956, 1960  and  1970. 
In the past there has been some attempts - even though they may have been bumbling attempts - to deal with the problem of industrial relations. But this year all that we have from the Government is pure politics, the separation of conciliation and arbitration, the requirement that the Commission which, under the Constitution is charged merely with the settlement of industrial disputes, should take upon itself a consideration of the state of the national economy in the course of its deliberations, the widening of the role of the Full Bench - let us not forget that with a Full Bench, under the Act the Commonwealth has the right to intervene - and the closer scrutiny of industrial agreements. 
All this points to a concerted policy on the part of this Government to try to stem the trend to negotiate agreements, maximum intervention by the Government and to maximum pressure on the Commission in the direction of the real aim of this Government, which is to achieve a wage freeze. A wage freeze will not work in the absence of other measures, including price justification, tariff reform and amendment of the Trade Practices Act. By that I mean a real amendment and not the pale amendment that was foreshadowed by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  today. In the absence of these broad, fiscal and monetary measures and measures directed to interest rates it is absolutely futile and whistling in the dark for the Government to imagine that it has any chance whatsoever to impose a wage freeze. We on this side dispute the continued claim we hear from the other side of the chamber that wages are the real cause of price increases. We believe, on the other hand, that wages are continually chasing prices. 
We believe that instead of making the Commission an instrument of industrial instability this Bill will merely drive outside the system the parties involved in industrial disputation or industrial discussion. In that way this Bill will not achieve what the Government claims it will achieve. It will achieve exactly the opposite. Its measures in relation to amalgamations will merely increase demarcation disputes. In that way this Bill will counter the Government's vaunted aim of minimising disputes. Its interference in voluntary organisations as expressed in proposed new section 153a, I suggest, will alarm similar voluntary organisations throughout the community. This Bill is a grandstanding attempt by the Government to show strength, but it really discloses only its weakness. It is a bad Bill. It is an insincere and irresponsible Bill. Above all, it will not work. It should be rejected by the Senate. 
The Registrar can read the rules. 
 I wish to add a few words to those of my Leader  Senator Murphy.  The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  has even less excuse for his mistake about the legal nature of organisations under the Act than he would have if he were relying merely on his obviously sketchy knowledge of the Jumbunna case which, after all, is a rather old case and on his obvious ignorance of the Williams v. Hursey case. In his second reading speech he referred to the case of Moore v. Doyle. One would assume that a Minister giving such attention to the Moore v. Doyle case, in which, incidentally. I acted for one of the parties, would have taken the trouble to read the judgment in that case. The court which was considering the case traversed all the authorities on this vexed question of the legal nature of organisations registered under the Act and gave considerable attention to the question whether an organisation under the Act is in fact a corporation. In that case, which was a recent one, the Court came down unequivocally on the side of the contention that has been put to the Committee tonight by  Senator Murphy.  There is absolutely no excuse for the first law officer of the Crown to come before this chamber and suggest that there is some doubt - any doubt at all - about the legal nature of an organisation registered under this Act. I suggest to him he go back to the authorities and that he have a look at not only the Jumbunna case and the case of Williams v. Hursey but also that he read Moore v. Doyle again, in which all the thinking of the judges of this country is brought up to date. The learned Court - the Commonwealth Industrial Court - came down with the statement that an organisation registered under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act is unequivocally a corporate body. 
We on this side see considerable merit in this clause. The idea of introducing into the Commission and among presidential members people with qualifications other than legal qualifications seems to us to be a forward step. I, for my part, have always found it rather odd that lawyers should have been considered to have a monopoly of wisdom in the matter of wage fixation. I think it is a forward step to introduce people with other skills and other qualifications into this wage fixing body. There is only one criticism that I would make. It relates to proposed sub-section (1a.) paragraph (b) which provides that a person shall not be appointed as a  deputy president  unless he is a person who: 
has had experience at a high level in industry, commerce, industrial relations or the service of a government or an authority of a government; 
This seems to me to be unnecessarily vague especially when it describes people who have had experience in industrial relations. Presumably this could extend to, say, academics in universities and people who have had no concrete and realistic experience. I would have preferred to have seen added after the words 'industrial relations' words such as: 'as an officer of an organisation of employees or employers'. I do not know just what is comprehended in the notion of a person who has had experience in industrial relations. It was suggested in the other House by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  that this whole section was so vague that it could comprehend in its terms people who had had some success, for example, in the sporting world. The honourable member suggested that a couple of people who might have qualified under the wide terms of this section were such well known sporting figures as  Mr George  Moore the jockey; and  Mr Tom  Smith the horse trainer. I would have thought that the Government could have used language that was a little more exact than the words in this section. Other than that rather milk criticism, we applaud the extension of the categories of people who may serve on the Commission to include people other than lawyers. 
 It takes some gall to ask a parliament, the members of which have not had an increase in salary for approximately 4 years but for whom the cost of living has gone up just as it has for every other section of the community, to award a pay rise of $84 a week, retrospective to last November, to a class of persons who have recently shown their attitude towards the rest of the community by claiming that a $2 a week increase is sufficient to overtake the rises in the cost of living and who also delivered themselves of the opinion that a man, his wife and his children can live on a wage of $54 a week. Quite apart from the rights and wrongs of parliamentarians salaries to which  Senator Bishop  has referred, we on this side of the House, who consider that we have a responsibility to the lower paid sections of the community, could not in conscience support a wage increase for Commissioners which is so vastly out of proportion to the treatment which those people themselves have meted out to the persons whose wages it is their task to fix. For that reason we will be opposing this clause and we will be dividing on it. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  never ceases to amaze mc. Implicit in the amendment which he has just proposed is that there is some burning social evil which immediately must be eradicated under threat to the safety of the community. Why otherwise would it be necessary to freeze the issue of amalgamation at this point? The philosophy embedded in this absurd, last minute amendment is that unless we have these new amalgamation procedures which it is proposed should be injected into this Act, all sorts of sinister things might happen which may threaten the security of reasonable industrial relations in this country. However, let me again remind the AttorneyGeneral that when the Minister in charge of this Bill spoke of his grand scheme for recasting this Act back in December 1971, the words 'amalgamate' or amalgamation' did not occur. This Government saw nothing wrong with the procedures that were being adopted - they are difficult enough - by unions in this community before it introduced this code. 
The Amalgamated Metal Workers Union which has just come into existence had to pass through hell fire under the old provisions of this Act to achieve what it has done already. Of course, it was not only in December that the Minister was not suggesting that there was any need for this code of amalgamation; in an address which he gave to the Central Industrial Secretariat in Melbourne on 2nd March 1972 - that is, 2 or 3 months ago - he adverted to this question of amalgamation and he answered the critics of the amalgamation of this great big metal union about which we have been talking. This occurred as recently as 2 or 3 months ago and, of course, he was speaking to a couple of employers' organisations which had just themselves amalgamated. He was applauding that and acknowledging the tendency in society for small bodies to coalesce into larger bodies and he was admitting that this was an inevitable tendency in the trade union movement. Among other things, the Minister for Labour and National Service said: 
Basically, the  philsophy  of the current and previous governments in relation to organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is that they are voluntary organisations and the Government should not interfere in their affairs unless it can be demonstrated that there are or are likely to be dishonest practices which would prejudice the rights of members or groups of members. 
He went on to say that there was no such record in relation to the big unions that have amalgamated. He also ridiculed the idea that 50 plus per cent of the total union membership should vote. This statement was made only a few months ago. We, of course, know of the pressure that he was under from certain people in this House and outside this House to make amalgamations difficult. In the eyes of this Government there was nothing sinister at that stage - as recently as a couple of months ago - in the idea that the prevailing legal procedures were sufficient protection for the community in any amalgamations which were then on foot. I have no doubt that over recent years many trade unions have been contemplating amalgamation. A lengthy negotiating period has to go on between various groups which want to come together. I personally do not know of them but at this moment there may be certain such unions or groups of unions which are on the verge of making application for amalgamation under the old law. 
The Attorney-General is telling us that if there is anything like that on foot, if any unions are on the verge of amalgamating under the old law, that is something which has to be stopped at all costs, now, today. We are told that we must freeze this matter as of today or somebody will be imperilled. We have heard a lot about pique here today. I suggest that we have had as good an example of pique as we can get from this first law officer of the Commonwealth. Having been thoroughly worsted in debate yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  and having had his legal limitations so thoroughly exposed to the community- 
Not to you,  Senator Webster.  The honourable senator is well and truly out of his depth here. But the Attorney-General, having been shown up before the Parliament in all of his inadequacies, today comes in with this supreme example of pique. This is a totally unjustified and unwarranted demonstration of bias by the Government. It has taken 10 years even to promise a Trade Practices Act - it is not law yet - which will interfere in some way with the com panies to which the Government is so tender. It has taken 10 years and the Bill is not even before us. Yet when it comes to interfering with unions the Government wants to introduce this emergency measure to freeze things as at today. Do we want any better illustration than this that this is a biased, partial government which is not concerned with industrial relations but which is concerned with serving its friends, with seeking votes, and to hell with the rest of the community. 
 There is a simple and fundamental criticism to be made of these proposed sections which the Government seeks to insert into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is that they will not work as well as the sections which they are to replace. Under the old scheme for the settlement of disputes, the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission would assign a commissioner to a particular industry or group of industries. The commissioner would have responsibility for disputes occurring within that industry from beginning to end. Throughout the history of this Act there have been some very fine and dedicated commissioners who have achieved a mastery over the detail of the industries to which they were allocated and who have served the community well both as conciliators and as arbitrators. But, for some reason that is best known to the Government, it has now been decided that there shall be a sharp dichotomy between the role of conciliator and that of arbitrator. I do not know what experience this is based upon. It is difficult for me to unravel the philosophy behind this change. The roles of conciliator and arbitrator should not be separate. In my submission the separation certainly will not improve the operation of the Act. 
The amendments state that in the first instance a dispute will go before a conciliator. The conciliation commissioner, as he is called - this is the new title which is created in these amendments - will attempt as best he can in conferences with the parties to settle the matter. Then at a given stage when he has failed to do that he will bow out of the proceedings altogether In our view, this is a completely artificial and unreal approach to the settlement of industrial disputes and could be conceived only by men who have had no experience of the way in which industrial life proceeds. So long as the conciliator is conducting his task, there is always a hope that conciliation will achieve a result - even after the parties have proceeded to arbitration. 
That is the case under the present dispensation under which a commissioner has been assigned to a particular industry. Firstly, he tries to settle the dispute without arbitrating. Then, when that has failed the same man proceeds with the knowledge he has acquired of the dispute, with the knowledge he as an experienced man has picked up of the attitudes of the contending parties and with the knowledge he must have of the possibility that there can still be a settlement even after arbitration has commenced. But now this is dispensed with, and we have set up in its place a procedure of parley, failure and then war. The parties have to go to arbitration at a given point and they go before a different man. The most absurd provision in this whole section, as I see it, is that which is contained in proposed section 30 (1.). lt states: 
When conciliation proceedings before a Conciliation Commissioner in respect of an industrial dispute have been completed, the Conciliation Commissioner shall report to the relevant Presidential Member as to the matters in dispute and the parties and the extent, if any, to which the dispute has been settled, but shall not disclose anything said or done in the conciliation proceedings concerning matters in dispute that remain unsettled. 
The mind boggles at the unreality of this approach to the problem of settling industrial disputes. The conciliation process may have been proceeding for several days, the whole gamut of the differences between the parties may have been traversed, and the parties may have been even on the brink of settlement when suddenly the discussions break down on some little point. Then all that effort and all the time that the union officials, employees and a skilled conciliator have devoted is wasted and the whole process has to start all over again. It certainly is very difficult to see how this is  going to speed up the process of conciliation and arbitration. The only effect it can have is to make the settlement of disputes more difficult and to lengthen proceedings. 
As I said, as we search around for a reason to explain the absurdity of this change, it is very difficult to resist the conclusion that the real aim of this clause of the Bill is to stop employers and employees from reaching agreement and to try to bring everything in industrial relations under the aegis of arbitration. If we look at all the new clauses we are reinforced in this view. More and more the tendency of the Act, as amended by this Bill, will be to put the accent on arbitration and also, of course, to throw as many of the large matters as possible into the hands of a full bench and to take as much as possible away from the commissioners. For example, under proposed new section  31  the number of matters which will be reserved for the consideration of a full bench is greatly widened. This covers a far wider field than the existing section  33  and obviously closes off a vast field for consent awards. 
Another objectionable detail of this clause of the Bill is proposed new section  23.  Perhaps the Attorney-General will give us some guidance on what is intended by the words to which I am about to refer. After detailing the new scheme under which the  President  may assign an industry or a group of industries to a pane] of members, the so-called task force, proposed new sub-section 23 (3.)  states: lt is the duty of the Presidential Member who is a member of a panel under this section to organise and allocate the work of the members of the panel in respect of the industry or industries allocated to the panel, and the other members of the panel shall comply with directions given by the Presidential Member in the performance, of that duty. 
We would like some guidance on the precise intention of those words. Do they mean, in effect, that all independence- 
Yes, but this refers to a different set of circumstances. Do these words mean that these commissioners are to be deprived of any independence and that in the new spirit of the Act, with the full court laying down guidelines in a wider and still wider field of activities, these commissioners are to become merely the tools of the presidential members and in effect are to be given their riding instructions in every matter allocated to them? It seems to us that this fits in with the general scheme of this Bill which is to take as many measures as possible to impose a strait jacket on industrial relations in the interests, we suggest, of imposing a wage freeze on the unions. Proposed new section  28  will empower a conciliation commissioner to refuse to certify agreements or consent awards if they are not 'in the public interest'. We suggest that the words 'in the public interest' are altogether too vague and confer altogether too wide a discretion on the commissioners. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the unreality and the sharp division created by these amendments between the roles of conciliation and arbitration which I suggested were designed to increase the emphasis on the role of the arbitrator and to diminish the role of the conciliator in these proceedings. This is further illustrated by the proposed amendment to section  31  which tightens up the role of the conciliation commissioner in relation to the certifying of agreements which may be reached between parties. Section  31  which is to be replaced by proposed new section  28  states: (3.) The Commissioner may refuse to certify a memorandum. . . . 
But proposed new section  28  states: (2.) A Conciliation Commissioner shall refuse to certify a memorandum or make an award or order . . . under certain circumstances which are then set out. They include the purely subjective decision of the Conciliation Commissioner that the certification of such a memorandum is not in the public interest. Once again we see here, as in the other proposed new sections with which we are dealing, that there is a tendency to tighten the role of the commissioners and to diminish their discretion. I submit that this is in line with the general aim of the Government in amending this section of the Act which is to increase the role of the 
Commission in arbitration and to diminish the possibility of settling disputes by discussion between the parties. Finally, I reiterate what I said earlier, and that is that it is quite beyond my comprehension how the Government could conceive that by this sharp division between the role of the conciliation commissioner and the arbitration commissioner the settlement of disputes either will be aided or speeded up. This must lengthen the process of the settlement of disputes and it must make the settlement more difficult. That can hardly be said to be a contribution to industrial stability. 
I do not know how much it is appreciated by honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber that under this provision it is not necessary even for the leadership of a union to support a strike or to be shown to have played any role in the strike at all in order to attract these penalties. A careful reading of the clause will show that if a certain procedure is followed - if a dispute has been notified and has been investigated and, under this amendment, a settlement is not in sight - a certificate must be issued by the presidential member and this automatically leaves the way open for penalties to be imposed under proposed section 119. I often wonder why this Federal Liberal Government is so much more stupid than other Liberal governments in the states. For instance, in New South Wales, in the penalties provisions under the Act defences are available to union officials who come along and say that they have made every attempt to settle a strike. If that can be established the question of penalties is materially affected. In fact, penalties may not be imposed. 
My friend  Senator Wheeldon  tells me that this also is the position in Western Australia. If a government is sincerely interested in industrial stability surely it will attempt to have a flexible penalties section. We do not agree that there should be a penalties section but if the Government's purpose is to use a penalties section in order to attempt to establish industrial stability, we suggest that at least it ought to attempt to have some sort of workable penalties system. When the Government does not attempt to get a workable penalties system the idea inevitably comes to us that the purpose of the section is not to ensure industrial stability but to provoke industrial unrest. There is no doubt that a close reading of proposed new section 33, which is to replace the old section 32a, shows that there has been an attempt to make the penalties section more inflexible. Thus when we are considering this proposed new section we really are entering the Government's fantasy world. No matter what life has taught it one would have thought that the Government had learnt that these penalties sections do not ensure industrial stability. In fact, there was some reason to hope that the Government was beginning to learn something when section 32a was inserted in die Act in 1970. 
I remind honourable senators of the circumstances under which this section was written into the Act. We had the upheaval around the metal trades award towards the end of 1968 which led to the spate of strikes in 1969, in which the employers raced to the Commonwealth Industrial Court in case after case under old sections 109 and 111  -  the contempt powers - 'and automatically had fines imposed on the unions with costs added. Far from settling the upheaval, these procedures aggravated the trouble. Finally, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission recognised that it had made an awful mess of things with the award which suggested the absorption of over-award payments and it back-tracked. Even this Government, when it talks about the fines that were imposed at that time, is content with pious exhortations such as suggesting that it expects the fines to be paid. But it does not do anything about them. The Government knows that if ever the tribunal was in the wrong and if ever a legislative enactment was futile, it was in that case. 
The Government appeared to have learned a lesson when it inserted section 32a which left a fairly wide discretion to the presidential member to investigate the merits of a dispute. Then, if he thought that issuing a certificate might prejudice the settlement of a dispute, he was under no obligation to issue a certificate. But that discretion now disappears. We read in proposed section 33 (7.), which was quoted by  Senator Bishop:   the Presidential Member shall not refuse an application- 
He has no discretion whatsoever -  for a certificate . . . unless he is satisfied that a prompt settlement of the matter giving rise to the conduct will be effected or that the conduct is otherwise about to cease. 
In other words, unless the presidential member is satisfied that the strike is all over or that it is about to end, he has to issue a certificate. This is narrowing his powers a great deal compared to the discretion he had under section 32a. As I said, that section was an improvement on the old scheme. It is notorious that far fewer fines have been imposed under section 32a than under the old automatic contempt powers. What does this Government believe? Has it learned nothing from history? 
Can anybody seriously maintain that tightening the sanctions powers in this Act will do anything to effect more industrial peace? I confidently predict that it will have exactly the opposite effect. For instance, a presidential member now has no discretion to say in relation to a strike which may be greatly damaging the economy: 'I believe that in these circumstances if I issue a certificate, far from this strike having a chance to be settled, it will aggravate the feeling between the parties and make a settlement less likely.' Old section 32a gives the presidential member that sort of sensible discretion. It is now taken from him. I can only conclude, as I said before, that the purpose of this section is not to ensure industrial peace; it is to aggravate industrial relations in the hope that this Government can emerge before the electors as the champion of law and order, as the custodian of all the righteousness of the community and as the people who come in and clear up the chaos which has been caused by these wicked unions. Of course, it is chaos which the Government is attempting to create. That is the real purpose of this proposed section. 
I have very little to say on this clause. I merely record our formal opposition and indicate that this is one of the clauses on which we intended to divide and on which we want our opposition recorded on the grounds that I think have already been fairly fully canvassed, namely, that the introduction of a system of secret ballots when industrial disputes occur or are threatening will be ineffective; that it flies in the face of international experience of the fruitfulness of such provisions and flies in the face of the Donovan report in England, which fully considered this matter; that such powers have been in the Act since 1928 but the Commonwealth has chosen to avail itself of those powers on only 3 occasions; and that the only effect we can see of the introduction or the actual implemention of such provisions would be to exacerbate industrial relations, prolong strikes and make their settlement more difficult. For that reason we oppose this clause. 
On behalf of the Opposition I thank the Attorney-General for his gracious concession that the amendment which he just moved has been prompted by an amendment which was circulated by the Opposition. We concede that the amendment moved by the AttorneyGeneral goes a long way towards achieving the aim which we had in mind in our own amendment. What disturbed us was that the Act permitted one judge to sit in such important matters as challenges to the rules of a union and in matters which could seriously affect the career and tenure of office of office holders in trade unions. We concede that over recent years it has been the practice for a bench of 3 judges to sit in such matters, but it was anomalous that the legislation as it stands permitted one judge to hear such important matters. One case that comes to mind in my own experience was a case which was heard some years ago by one judge in which, by a strange quirk of fate, I happened to be appearing on one side of the record and my Leader,  Senator Murphy,  on the other side. I won the case but  Senator Murphy  was robbed. Enshrined in the judgment of the court in this matter - I will not refer to the judge himself - is this imperishable legal gem. When it was objected to by  Senator Murphy  that the client for whom he was appearing had not been given natural justice because no evidence of the charge that had been laid against him had been produced,  His  Honour stated: 
I am of the opinion that the reading of the summons in this manner amounted to the presentation of evidence in the proceedings. 
That is a mind boggling proposition from a judge of such an important court as this. It underlines, at least in my mind, the everpresent possibility of judicial error and the desirability that matters of such importance as this should be heard by a bench of at least 3 judges. For my part, I would be satisfied with the Government's proposed amendment to section 104 because it goes a long way towards meeting the objections that we have to the section and towards curing the possibility of such egregious errors as the one to wish I have just referred. 
 Before we leave this group of clauses I should like to record the Australian Labor Party's opposition to clause 19, which is the clause which introduces provisions for the conduct of secret ballots in unions when an industrial dispute occurs or is threatening. Because of the limitations of time I do not wish to regurgitate what has already been said about this matter. 
Then I ask for the Committee's indulgence to consider this matter out of order. 
In this matter the Opposition wishes to move an amendment as follows: 
In proposed new section 145(4.) after 'informed' insert 'in writing'. 
I note that this morning the Government circulated among ils further amendments an amendment in the same terms. I take this to mean that the Government concedes the force of the Opposition's point on this matter. Briefly, the amendment to section 145 of the principal Act which was inserted in the Bill had as its intention the laying down of a general rule that resignations from a union should be in writing. But sub-clause (4.) made an exception to this general rule by providing that resignation of membership of an organisation is valid notwithstanding that it is not effected in accordance with this section - that is, in general, not in writing - if the member is informed by or on behalf of the organisation that the resignation has been accepted. In other words, it was not to be open to a union to claim that: a man had not resigned, even though he had not resigned in writing, if the union had accepted the resignation. 
But the flaw in the formulation of the Bill is that it would leave it open to a member to claim that he had been informed over the telephone or otherwise verbally that his resignation had been accepted, and there would be no safeguard for the union on the question of whether it had been accepted. This is cleared up by inserting the words 'in writing'. In other words, a resignation which is not in writing will still be valid provided that the union has acknowledged in writing that the resignation has been made. This is the purport of the addition of these words. 
My  question which is addressed to the AttorneyGeneral relates to an answer given earlier to a question asked by  Senator Devitt  regarding the Government's failure to recruit additional legal draftsmen to the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. In view of this failure, which has extended over a lengthy period and which is obviously having an adverse effect on the preparation of urgent legislation, has the Government considered drawing on the services of experienced barristers to assist, on a temporary basis, in the drafting of urgent legislation which we are constantly told will be presented to Parliament in the near future. 
I present the following petition from 35 citizens of the Commonwealth. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in. various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for Slate school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it not a fact that the principle that unions and unionists should be immune from prosecution except in the Commonwealth Industrial Court for acts done in* the furtherance of industrial objectives is enshrined already in section 147 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, which reads: 
Unless the contrary, intention appears in this Act, no organisation or member of an organisation shall be liable to be used, or to be proceeded against for a pecuniary penalty, except in the Court . . . 
Meaning the Commonwealth Industrial Court-   . . for any act or omission in respect  of  which the Court has jurisdiction. 
Since these words have been in the Act since its inception in 1904 and successive Liberal governments have taken no steps to repeal them, may we take it that the Government agrees with the Australian Labour Party that the traditional immunity of trade unions and their officers from actions for damages for conspiracy arising out of industrial dispute should be maintained? 
 My participation in the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts was my first experience of the working of the commit- tee system in this chamber. I must confess that I learned much about the parliamentary process in the course of working on this Committee. One has only to gaze at the dramatis personae of the Committee to see the possibilities of conflict and contest implicit in such names as  Senator Davidson, Senator Carrick, Senator Hannan, Senator McManus  and  Senator Milliner.  I must confess that coming to the deliberations of this Committee as a new senator who had been in the place for 6 months only I was astonished to find how much of a consensus developed very rapidly among these disparate figures, to put it no higher than that. I would like to say at the outset that our deliberations were smoothed, by the tact, charm and discretion which our  Chairman, Senator Davidson,  showed on all occasions. 
I know that those honourable senators who were with me on the Committee will pardon me for quoting such an alien figure as Leon Trotsky, who was one of the mentors of my rather more radical youth. One of his favourite phrases was: 'Facts are stubborn things'. We senators, with varying views on society in general and the education system in particular, found that when confronted with the dispassionate, careful and unemotional views of the experts who paraded before us, the field of disputation narrowed and the field of agreement seemed to grow wider as the evidence proceeded. Whilst we did not agree on everything, it certainly came as a surprise to me that in a field as full of politics as education we could agree, for instance, on such a formulation as this, which appears in the forward to the Committee's report. 
However, the evidence is overwhelming that, at least in the sphere of teacher education, the problems are so vast and pressing and their solution so fundamental to the preservation and advancement of basic community values that an increased Commonwealth commitment is nol only justified but urgently required. 
I thought, when 1 embarked on the deliberations of this Committee, that it would take something to drag the representatives of the Government along with the proposition that the education system was flagging to such an extent that they could put their names to a proposition such as that. But I was rapidly disabused of those feelings and I was greatly encouraged and enthused to find that on this fundamental question pol itics did not loom all that large and genuine concern for the problems of the community loomed very much larger. 1 would like the Senate to appreciate that this report is not based only on our listening to a parade of impressive, highly qualified, disinterested and idealistic witnesses. We also had the advantage of the great number of reports that have been prepared over the years on this question. After all, there is nothing novel in society's preoccupation with the question of education. It is something on which all parties have had a certain consensus over the last 20 or 30 years. To be opposed to better and more enlightened education systems is like being opposed to motherhood. Really, the quarrel between the parties is about methods and the amount of money that society can afford. There is very little quarrel that there is a need for a massive attack in order to update and modernise our education system. Of course, the starting point is teaching the teachers. 
I cannot possibly hope, in the scope of a survey such as I am undertaking tonight, to cover the whole field that this Committee covered. So I would like to refer to just one or two of the salient points. One of the things that we had to consider was this question of bonds and scholarships for aspiring teachers, lt emerged quite early in our discussions that student teachers are, in a sense, academically a submerged class. It became apparent from the evidence that was adduced before us that in recent times the teaching profession has become one of the avenues of upward social mobility. The brighter sons and daughters of the working class have seen a teaching vocation as a way not only of catering for their latent idealism or their desire to serve society in some positive way but also of moving from one social stratum into a higher social stratum, which 1 think all honourable senators will agree is a quite praiseworthy motivation. 
But this has had some unfortunate results. The education departments in the various States have attracted young men and women to undertake a course in teacher training by offering the bait of certain living allowances which generally are higher than those offered to holders of scholarships or attenders of universities In general. The suspicion aro.-c quite early in our discussions that people who were not really dedicated to teaching but who wanted to escape from the economic rut in which they found themselves took on a teaching scholarship largely because attached to it was a living allowance without which they would not have been able to undertake such a course. 
This has been adverted to by students of this problem, notably Professor Karmel who, I think, has written the most lucid and instructive report on this question of bonding. The result is that teacher trainees in the universities have been separated from other students in the sense that they carry this slight stigma of unwilling adherence to a teaching course. One suspects that a large number of them are in it because this is the only way they have of doing a tertiary education course. They are bonded to stick with this calling after they qualify, but a large number of them want to get out of it as soon as they possibly can. One of the things about which the Committee was concerned was to examine whether, in fact, this bonding system should survive or whether it should be replaced by some other system. Even though we have not been particularly precise in coming up with an alternative, I think it is interesting to note that a consensus did develop within the Committee that the bonding system should come to an end and that society should attempt to find some substitute for it. The best expression of the views of those experts that we listened to was that given by  Mr Hughes,  Head of the School of Teacher Education at the Canberra College of Advanced Education.  Mr Hughes  recommended: 
The Commonwealth should develop a National Scholarship Scheme comprising the separate systems now operating for university scholarships, advanced education scholarships, Commonwealth teacher education scholarships and State teacher education scholarships. The scholarships should include a minimum living allowance of the order of $500 plus a system of loans repayable over a period and subject to cancellation through approved types of service. The scholarships should not carry a bond. 
Professor Goldman, Dean of the School of Education at La Trobe University, made this recommendation: 
An increased number of scholarships certainly should be given, but they should be subject to a means test . . . The other qualification I would make is that there should be available a loans system. 
Having weighed all the evidence that we took on this vexed question of bonds and inducements to students to embrace the education profession, the problem of retaining teachers in the education system and the problem of deploying them in remote, unattractive locations without the sanction of a bond, which many education authorities pointed out had been an important factor in persuading young men and women to teach in remote unattractive locations, and appreciating all the difficulties, the Committee recommended: 
That a conference of the Commonwealth and State Governments be held at an early date to devise a uniform system of scholarships for the whole tertiary system of education embracing all studies (i.e. including teaching). 
In other words the Committee concluded that the distinction between the role of a student at a university who aims to be a teacher and that of all other students at a university should be removed. That is, the young man or young woman who is attending a university because he or she wants to gain, say, a Bachelor of Arts degree or a Bachelor of Science degree - who wants to acquire a qualification which will lift him or her out of the rut - but who does not really want to be a teacher, yet may develop the idea of becoming a teacher notwithstanding that he or she was not motivated originally by that idea, should not be placed in a slot separate from that of students in all other faculties who have chosen their profession and who may have the benefit of scholarships which will permit them to achieve their goal. One way that we saw for removing this distinction was the system of student loans applied without discrimination to the whole student body. This meant that the student could decide, without any pressure of the type I have discussed, that he or she would undertake tertiary education but would be under no pressure to fulfil an obligation to do a job which he or she did not really want to do. 
It is a vexed question to which the experts have given a great deal of attention. If honourable senators read the Committee's report they will see that we are not dogmatic in our findings. We merely throw in certain suggestions; we open new avenues of thought on the question of bringing the student teacher up to a plane of equality with students in the rest of the student body in the universities. I commend to honourable senators and to all education authorities in this country the recommendations and the suggestions in the report. I believe they show a sensitive regard for the feelings and aspirations of young men and women who are prepared to accept the onerous task of teaching children but who do not necessarily wish to be bound as bond slaves to a calling about which they may be tentative in their original approach. 
Next I should like to refer to the dissent which both  Senator Milliner  and 1 entered to the general finding of the Committee that Commonwealth funds should be allocated to the training of teachers in institutions separate from the State institutions for the training of teachers. The evidence that was given to the Committee was that the non-Catholic independent schools are preponderantly staffed by teachers trained in government institutions such as universities and teachers colleges. They do, however, absorb also a trickle of teachers who emerge from 2 small teacher training instutions - Mercer House in Victoria and the Teachers Guild College in New South Wales. Both  Senator Milliner  and I felt that these institutions made such a meagre contribution to the supply of teachers that their role seemed to be quite peripheral to the task of the Committee. This passage is included in Appendix 1 which covers our dissenting comments: 
The financial priorities involved in an urgent and massive attack on the manifest shortcomings of teacher education disclosed in evidence given to the Committee would exclude, in our view, any Commonwealth assistance to small elite colleges catering for the more affluent section of the community. 
The most important aspect of our dissent related to the suggestion that Commonwealth funds should be devoted to the Catholic institutions which train teachers for their own schools. We were at pains to point out that our attitude to this had nothing to do with the argument which has proceeded in the community in recent years on the general question of State aid. The rationale of State aid to Catholic schools is that those schools are a traditional part of our total education system to which parents who wish their children to obtain a distinctively Catholic education are entitled to send them; that their continued existence relieves the burden on government schools; and that it does not amount to subsidising a religion but to furthering the educational aspects of schools where religion is also incidentally inculcated. The question whether the Commonwealth should contribute funds to institutions where teachers are trained to teach in Catholic schools seemed to us to import totally different considerations. It was admitted by various witnesses, including leading figures in the Catholic education system who appeared before us, that there had been a growing tendency in recent years for lay teachers to take on an increasing burden in the Catholic schools. 
The old time when members- 
That is so. 
Life does not stand still, and I have not stood still either. The fact that I may have had a Catholic education does not blind me to the shortcomings of the Catholic education system, nor to the fact that different considerations apply in 1972 from those that may have applied in 1930. Nothing that I am saying and nothing that was said in this report reflect in any way on the right of Catholics to have an education of their own choosing. But there has been that recognition, as the evidence before our Committee showed, that Catholics can no longer sustain their education system by relying on the Catholic religious orders to instruct the children in their schools. They must call increasingly on lay teachers. 
The view that I take is that anything that the Commonwealth puts into improving the general system of training of lay teachers will redound just as much to the benefit of the Catholic education system as to the general State education system. The interests of Catholics in an improved education system must be in an improvement in the general training of teachers in the State institutions. The idea that was put forward to the Committee that there is some special interest in the specifically Catholic training of teachers is one that did not commend itself to me or to  Senator Milliner  who joined with me in the dissent to the Committee's general report. We did not go along with the idea that there is such a thing as Catholic mathematics or Catholic science. There seemed to us to be a large sphere in which education is totally neutral. 
As a matter of fact, I put a question to one witness who appeared before our Committee; I do not remember the exact words but what I asked him went something like this: 'Whom would you prefer to have teaching your child? Would you rather have a competent atheist or an incompetent Catholic teaching your child mathematics?' The answer that I received was quite an equivocal one but the point that I was making is that a large sphere of education surely is totally neutral. I respect and have no desire to denigrate the aspirations of the people running the Catholic education system, or any other religious education system such as the Jewish education system. I do not quarrel in any way with the right of anybody who wishes to preserve certain values that are dear to him to preserve those values. But I claim that the State is concerned only with neutral, objective, education standards and that anything else - the training of children in the maintenance of Catholic values, or Jewish values or Presbyterian values - is peculiarly the province of those particular sects themselves. 
So  Senator Milliner  and I in putting our names to this dissent on the question of whether Commonwealth assistance should be given to institutions which train teachers for independent schools, set our views against such a proposition. We believe - and I suggest that this should commend itself to the Senate even though it is a minority viewpoint - that the Catholic schools and the independent schools generally will gain just as much as the State schools from any improvement in the standard of general teacher training. The flow of competent teachers from those State institutions subsidised by the Commonwealth in the way that this Committee suggests will improve the standard of teaching in all schools without differentiation in respect of State schools, Catholic schools, Presbyterian schools or Jewish schools. I can see no case for the specifically Catholic or Presbyterian training of a mathematics teacher, or a science teacher or any other expert who goes out into schools to train the children in these disciplines. Anything extra, anything in the way of the indoctrination or the philosophical inculcation which may be dear to the minority sects in this community, is peculiarly their concern and not the concern of the State, 
I also raised in the course of this dissent the suggestion that under section 116 of the Constitution it is highly questionable whether it is within the constitutional power of the Commonwealth Government to give financial assistance to the training of teachers who are specifically concerned not only with imparting neutral nonreligious knowledge to students but also with training them in being specifically Catholic, or Presbyterian, or Jewish teachers. With respect, I think that the Commonwealth would probably be going beyond its constitutional power if it did attempt to allocate moneys to specifically religious training or to training which included the religious training of the teacher. This is expressed in one of the views that was put by one of the witnesses before the Committee, Monsignor Bourke, who said: 
Wherever Catholic teachers or teachers at Catholic schools are to be prepared, there ought to be some, at least, parallel and pretty fully integrated understanding of what you might call the Catholic theory of education. 
Now, I appreciate and I respect that viewpoint. But I also claim that that cannot possibly be the concern of a secular State authority. If the people who are charged with the control and organisation of the Catholic education system believe that that is the purpose of the training of Catholic teachers, I respect that belief, but I suggest that under the Constitution it is nothing with which the Commonwealth can concern itself. For that reason, and with the greatest respect for those in the community whose views of what education is about are different from mine, I put my signature, beside that of  Senator Milliner,  to this dissent on the recommendation of the Committee that Commonwealth funds should be devoted towards the training of teachers in independent institutions, apart from the training of teachers in institustions of the State. 
1 said that Commonwealth funds should not be devoted to the training of teachers in independent institutions. 
It is fortunate that this country will soon be rid of the incubus of an insensitive and authoritarian Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  who once again today has demonstrated his unfitness for his high office. Listening to him here tonight, one would have thought that we on this side of the Senate were responsible in some way for the mess into which he, his Government and his advisers have got the law of the Australian Capital Territory. Perhaps we would have expected some apology from the AttorneyGeneral. After all, who created this mess? What is us? Did we have anything to do with the drafting or gazetting of this Ordinance? But there was not a word of apology from him. There was only a suggestion that in some way or other we on this side of the Senate bear some blame for the mess into which he and his Government have got the law. This great proponent of law and order does not even know how to ensure that his legislation is operative. 
I wish to contrast the high sounding protestations of this first legal officer of the Commonwealth with his performance. Here tonight he has given us his usual selfrighteous, Pharisaical defence of his own attitude. 
I will give the honourable senator everything. I will give him more than he wants. 
I ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  who is in charge of this Bill: In the light of what has been said in this debate about the dire effects on the administration of justice in the Australian Capital Territory, if this Bill is not passed - the effects on civil rights and on the administration of the criminal lav? - has the Attorney-General any sort of schedule or statement which would inform the Senate of just what is involved? Has be a list of ordinances or regulations which are invalidated if the decision of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory is held to be a correct decision? For example, has he any list of the people who are at present in gaol and of the offences for which they are in gaol? In other words, what would be the effect on the citizenry of this Territory if this Bill which he calls a validating Bil!, were not passed by this Parliament? 
The Opposition, because of some of the remarks made during the course of this debate, has been put into the position of appearing to be on the side of chaos. As I said during the debate on the second reading yesterday, we are not gloating over the predicament in which the Government finds itself. We do not suggest that this is a position which cannot arise in the best organised of communities. We do not wish to be thought to be obstructive or attempting to perpetuate the chaos or disarray in which law enforcement in this Territory finds itself. But surely some of the extreme examples which have been adverted to or suggested by some of the speakers in this debate could be illustrated. For instance, is it impossible for the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to tell us what prisoners are in the gaols of this country at the present time on really serious or heinous offences, such as the crimes of murder or rape, who would be, in effect, entitled to their liberty if the present situation persisted in which doubt is cast on all decisions of the courts made, say, within the last 20 years? 
Is it too much to expect the Government to illustrate the lurid case which it has made out about what the Opposition is trying to do - in what we consider to be a legitimate defence of civil liberties - and to give examples of the dire results if, in fact, the dragnet operation of this Bill takes effect. Cannot the Attorney-General give us a few examples of desperate criminals who would be set at large if this validating Bill did not go through the Parliament? Are we just talking in generalistations? Are these just scare stories? In fact, are there no dire results flowing from the acceptance of the principle which we enunciate, that is, that what comes first is the protection of the principle that criminality cannot be created ex post facto. Surely it is not too much to ask the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth of Australia to give us some of these dire examples? 
 Evidently we are not to be given any chapter and verse to support what I can only repeat is the lurid picture of the consequences that flow from failure to validate what has been done under the supposed law of the Australian 
Capital Territory. The Attorney-General must know perfectly well that nothing in the attitude of the Opposition has anything to do with any desire to prevent the workers compensation regulations from functioning in this Territory. Nothing in our attitude has anything to do with preventing the civil and criminal law of the Australian Capital Territory from functioning. We are concerned only with one central point, and I do not know how many times we have to say it in order to get this through to the Government. We are concerned to defend the principle that criminality cannot be created retroactively, and my question is limited to that. I am not concerned wilh suggesting that we want to hold up the proper functioning of the workers compensation legislation. Surely it is not too much to ask the AttorneyGeneral, who has Informed his mind on these questions, what is the actual threat contained in the amendment that we propose. 
Yes. The civil liability that I am attempting to prevent from operating is limited to the people who were arrested in connection with this Aboriginal embassy. We are not suggesting for one moment that the question of civil liability should remain in doubt in this Territory. We are not suggesting for one moment that the workers compensation laws should cease to function. What we are concerned to know, to have some chapter and verse on, is what will be the dire effects in this community if the principle that we espouse is accepted by the Government, that is, that criminality should not be created retrospectively Am 1 to take it from the Attorney-General's answer that he cannot give me any chapter and verse on this question? 
I will answer that. There is nothing in our attitude that would suggest we are against the validation of ordinances or regulations to preserve those rights. 
Retrospectively, too. We are not opposed to legislation which operates retrospectively to preserve civil rights. What we are opposed to is legislation which operates retrospectively to make criminal acts which were not criminal when they were performed. This is a very narrow concept. It is one that we have reiterated over and over again. We certainly do not want to see dangerous machinery legislation invalidated for one moment. We do not want to have working men deprived of their rights because of some doubt about regulations of that nature and purport. Surely everything that we have said indicates that we do not attack this sort of thing. We are attempting to defend one narrow principle enshrined as a principle throughout the English speaking world and, that is - evidently I must say it again - that criminals cannot be created retrospectively. Certainly we want validated as soon as possible the legislation about which  Senator Byrne  talks or the legislation to which the AttorneyGeneral adverted. It should be perfectly clear from our proposed amendment that we are not attacking the idea of validating such legislation. 
1  second the amendment. In doing so I indicate that I will not move the amendment which I foreshadowed, in favour of this amendment. I notice that that statement amuses the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood);  so by way of explanation- 
I will take the Attorney-General up on his inter jection. If anything has characterised the whole exercise, it has been the messy and unseemly haste with which the Government has acted in order to plug its previous mistakes. In introducing this validating Bill, as the Government called it, it had belatedly to move an amendment to the Bill while it was being discussed. Under the circumstances - under the circumstances of the gagging of the whole debate - is it unreasonable that the Opposition, in trying to take a practical, realistic and enlightened attitude towards what should be done to solve the mess, should have had first thoughts and second thoughts about what was the best way to solve the mess? This morning  Senator Murphy  pleaded for time - not a lot of time. He asked that we be given until next Tuesday so that we could have the advantage of receiving advice over the weekend in order that we might avoid some of the errors into which the Government has fallen. Was it unreasonable for the Opposition, in considering this exceptional and unprecedented situation, to ask for this time? Of course it was not. Now the Attorney-General attemepts to gain some comfort from the fact that we have had second thoughts about the best way to accomplish what we consider to be the high social principles for which we stand. 
I admit that the amendment which I foreshadowed yesterday and which was a copy of an amendment moved in the other place had certain inconsistencies. Let us remember that the other place had even less time than we had to consider the implications of the situation. I admit specifically that the foreshadowed amendment was open to the charge of selectivity. I freely acknowledge that what I was doing was trying to be realistic. It could be argued, as a matter of pure logic, that if all these ordinances and regulations were inoperative every man - murderers, rapists and people guilty of the most heinous crimes - not only should be freed but also should be entitled to compensation. Devoted as I am to the idea of the rule of law, I must confess that I baulked at a proposition of that magnitude. I must admit also that in baulking at it I was logically inconsistent. However, I was trying to be realistic. As I have said previously and as I repeat, we are not gloating over the Government's predicament. We want to see this problem solved, but we want to see it solved within a framework of respect for the high principles of civic justice and civil liberty for which we on this side of the chamber stand and to which honourable senators on the other side of the chamber constantly pay lip service. I believe that we might have been able to do even better on more mature consideration, had we been able to give the Bill more consideration; but we have only until 9.30 p.m. I think it ill becomes the AttorneyGeneral to smile at the difficulty in which we have become involved in trying to get the best possible expression of the principles for which we stand. I believe that the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  expresses better, more cogently, more consistently and more coherently the principles that I was trying to establish in the amendment which I foreshadowed. For those reasons I support this amendment. 1 now pass some comment on what was said by  Senator Carrick  and echoed by  Senator Byrne  in a slightly more sophisticated but no more persuasive way. I take it that  Senator Carrick  was referring to the old principle of mens rea or a guilty mind.  Senator Greenwood  said that what counts above all else in considering whether legislation suffers from the vice of retrospectively creating criminality is what the community believed to be the legal position. Somehow or other it was suggested by the Attorney-General, by  Senator Carrick  and in a more garbled way by  Senator Byrne  that this is the ultimate test. Let us put that to a simple test. If I cross King's Hall believing that I am committing an offence in doing so, does that conclude the matter? Does that establish the criminality of what I am doing - because I have a guilty mind, because I believe I am committing an offence - if, in fact, under the law I am not committing an offence? Mens rea or the guilty mind has always been considered to be a necessary ingredient in criminal conduct. There also has to be an actual criminal offence in the statutes of the country concerned. No matter how guilty I believe I am and no matter how foul my intent, if in fact there is not a statute forbidding that conduct that conduct is not illegal. 
When the Senate adjourned last night I had said that I would have thought that the appropriate demeanour for the Government, having got the law of this country into its present mess, would have been one of humility and at least some indication of a readiness to apologise. However, the Government has persisted today in its arrogant attitude. In order to complete the story of its ineptitude, I draw the attention of the Senate to the messy manner in which the Government has gone about getting out of the mess into which it has already got itself. 
I point out that the Gazette which the police cited when they moved the protestors off the lawns in front of Parliament House in the early hours of yesterday was dated 12th September 1972 even though  Mr Hunt,  the Minister for the Interior, admitted at question time yesterday that it was actually published on 13th September 1972. In addition, this Gazette incorrectly describes the Seat of Government (Administration) Act as being '1901-1972' instead of '1910-1972'. Even then, the Government in introducing hastily this Bill, had to amend its own Bill by introducing an amendment to cure a deficiency which it discovered belatedly in the hastily drafted Bill. This is the Government which constantly gibes at the Opposition as being unfit to govern. I refer to this bunch of bumbling lawyers who cannot even master the trivia of the legislative process. 
I see that we are getting the usual reaction from the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  When he finds himself embarrassed he resorts to a schoolboyish giggle. This will not alter the fact that he has made an awful mess of the law and that he continues to make a mess of it. The only thing for which we can be grateful is that his tenure of office obviously is to be such a limited one. 
As  Senator Murphy  has pointed out time and time again in discussing this exer cise that we are going through today, the real vice of this legislation is that it represents an abandonment of the rule of law by retroactively making criminal actions which were not criminal when committed. No matter how much casuistry we get from the Attorney-General - and we have had a sample here today in the discussion of some of the preliminary matters - this is exactly what this legislation sets out to do. As I pointed out yesterday, in the case of the Attorney-General and the other lawyers on the other side, we are dealing with men who constantly boast of their devotion to the rule of law. This is a government whose members, we are told, differ from the prospective Labor government in being upholders of the rule of law and in being respecters of literal obedience to the law. When pressed to highlight the significance of the phrase 'the rule of law', most jurists would emphasise 3 fundamental characteristics. These are the primacy of legal rules over arbitrary decision making, the equal and universal application of those rules, and the certainty of rule content. Retrospective law making, involving as it does the passing of a law after the occurrence of a fact or an act, having the effect of retroactively altering the legal consequences or significance of such act, may be and indeed is viewed by many jurists as weakening the rule of law. It is arbitrary. It reflects uncertainty. It undermines confidence in the legal framework. It upsets otherwise vested interests. 
So much is this respect for these concepts enshrined in other systems of law that we find many legal systems express an absolute bar on such legislation. Perhaps the most prominent in terms of the leading legal systems of the world is to be found in Article I Paragraph 9 of the United States Constitution which provides simply: 
No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed. 
This has been interpreted by the courts of the United States as being limited to criminal and penal enactments. In this regard, I also draw the attention of the Senate to the International Covenant of the United Nations on Civil and Political Rights. We must assume that this enshrines principles to which, this Parliament gives its allegiance seeing that, in general, we are in sympathy with the aims of the United Nations. Article 15 of this Covenant states: 
No one shall be held guilty of any criminal offence on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a criminal offence, under national or international law, at the time when it was committed. Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time when the criminal offence was committed. If, subsequent to the commission of the offence, provision is made by law for the imposition of a lighter penalty, the offender shall benefit thereby. 
These are the principles that are respected by jurists throughout the world. 
It is true that there is under the Australian Constitution no constitutional restriction on the power of the Federal Parliament to enact such a law. I point out in this regard that in the first speech I made in this chamber I drew attention to the shortcomings of the Australian Constitution in this regard and I strongly urged the necessity for our country to have a Bill of Rights which would spell out specific rights. In the light of what this Government is attempting, I draw attention again today to this gap in our legal code which does not spell out similarly the sorts of rights which exist under the American Constitution and the sorts of precautions against this arbitrary tyrannical conduct which is possible from a government - fortunately a rare occurrence in this country - which is as insensitive to the rule of law as is this Government which boasts so constantly to be the upholder of the rule of law. 
Even though under the Australian Constitution, as I have said, there is no barrier to the introduction of retroactive legislation, the courts nonetheless have made it clear that they do not approve of such legislation. They have tried to add their weight to limiting the application of retroactive legislation. The principle that is well-established in our courts is that in the absence of an express and unequivocal provision to the contrary, legislation is presumed to have a prospective operation only and is given effect accordingly. The judicial rationale for that approach is that, simply because retrospectivity involves an invalidation of behaviour which at the time was legal, the legislature would not have intended such a result unless such an intention was given unequivocal expression. 
That principle is enshrined in a series of cases that have been decided in our High Court. I have no doubt that the lawyers opposite will be familiar with them. But perhaps the clearest statement of this principle is to be found in Kidmans' case, decided by the High Court, in which this expression of opinion is given by  Mr Justice  Higgins: 
 I know of no instance in which a legislature created by the British Parliament has been held to have overstepped its powers by making legislation retroactive. 
This is the concession which I have freely made and which I believe to be a gap in our legal structure. He continued: 
There are plenty of passages that can be cited showing the inexpediency, and the injustice, in most cases, of legislating for the past, of interfering with vested rights, and of making acts unlawful which were lawful when done. 
As I have said, the shortcomings in our Constitution are compounded when we have, as we have at the present moment, an inept, authoritarian government whose sensibilities have been blunted by an unhealthily long term in office. This position, of course, will soon be changed, but it would be a calamity if in its dying hours this Government were permitted by the Parliament to get away, under the guise of defending law and order, with this cynical abrogation of the rule of law. 
I had intended to speak at much greater length, and of course I shall be speaking in the Committee stage to an amendment which I have foreshadowed, but in view of the Act of the Government in curtailing this debate I do not wish to deprive others who wish to take part in the debate of their opportunity to make their contribution. For that reason I shall have nothing more to say at this moment but will reserve my further remarks for the Committee stage of the Bill. 
I readily accept  Senator Sim's  assurance that if this matter were referred to the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, of which he is  chairman,  he would do all in his power to ensure that the matter was con sidered impartially and dispassionately. For that reason, among others that I shall advance, I do not share the inhibitions and fears which the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  has expressed about the appropriateness of referring a matter like this to a Senate committee. May 1 say at the outset that when bombs explode in the main street of the city where I live I do not regard it as a matter from which I or the Party to which I belong should seek to derive any cheap political advantage. I do not believe that the citizens of Sydney care very much whether these bombs were set off by members of the Ustasha or by members of a Ustasha-like organisation, to use a phrase which has become dear to the Attorney-General, or whether in fact they were set off by unattached . individual murderers or fanatics. I do not think this matters much in the context of a society where we have become conditioned to think that that is not the sort of thing that happens in our political life.. I believe that what concerns the people of Sydney and the people of Australia- 
And the people of Perth, certainly. I include every corner of Australia in these considerations. I think what concerns Australians, and I speak only of the people of Sydney because they have been on the receiving end of the most recent example of these outrages, is to ask whether there is an organisation of terrorists in our midst. Secondly, are the Commonwealth police and our security organisations, on which a great deal of public money is spent, really doing what we expect of them to secure us against this sort of thing? Finally, is the Australian Government as . wholeheartedly concerned with suppressing right wing terrorism as it is with the mildest form of left wing dissent? Let us examine these questions in sequence. First let us consider the Government's attitude towards this whole problem. 

 Senator Murphy read a statement from the Department of Foreign Affairs which, having given this point its expert attention a few years ago - I think in 1969  -  came up with the considered opinion that there was no doubt that these continuing outrages were the work of Croatian extremists.  Senator Greenwood  today, in attempting to rebut the suggestion from this side of the chamber, said that he was not convinced that these bombing outrages were the work of Croatian extremists, referred to his record and quoted at length from an official handout that he gave a couple of months ago. We must realise, of course, that he is reported, even in this morning's Sydney Morning Herald' - I take this in the light of what he said to us about his record, of which he was somewhat proud- as stating that he does not deny that Saturday's bombings were undoubtedly the work of Croatian extremists. He does not deny that report in this morning's Sydney Morning Herald'. 
This is what you are reported to have said. 
I am glad to have the Attorney-General's assurance on this. It is in conflict with his record of which he boasted to the Senate today. 
All right. We will forget about that. Let me rely on the Attorney-General's assurance to the Senate this afternoon. In the hand-out of, I think, 21st July this year he acknowledged that the bombing outrages about which we on this side of the chamber are concerned were the work of Croatian extremists, or am I still wrong? Am I wrong in assuming that the Attorney-General has acknowledged that these bombings are the work of Croatian extremists? 
Let us be clear about this. I do not want to score any cheap debating points tonight, and in order that there may be no red herrings drawn across the trail, let me say here and now that I abhor what is happening in the Painters and Dockers Union, and I acknowledge that even the trade union movement should do something about it. 
Of course it is. I disapprove of the violence that is practised by the builders labourers union on some occasions and I also disapprove of the Soviet Union's invasion of Czechoslovakia. I have been a long term critic of Stalin's purges. So let us not have any red herrings about this. I do not have any double standards about violence and I would like to state that right at the outset. Let us have a look at what the AttorneyGeneral said, leaving aside what happened on Saturday which he is not convinced to have been the work of Croatian terrorists. He is satisfied, he says today, that a lot of the outrages in the past have been the work of Croatian terrorists - I think 'Croatian extremists' is the phrase which he prefers. Why is he so coy in his use of phrases? We do not ask that he call them Ustasha, and I would remind honourable senators that in the motion that is before the Senate tonight there is no mention of the word 'Ustasha' or 'Ustashi'. The motion is couched in general terms and refers to terrorists. We do not insist that the Attorney-General should call them Ustasha. But why does he not admit that on all the evidence, on all the probabilities and on all the likelihoods that would have appealed to any man of any political sophistication at all, these outrages are clearly the work of extreme right wing Croatians dedicated to the partition of the Yugoslav state and are clearly motivated by anti- Yugoslav Government tendencies? The Attorney-General is not prepared to admit this, and we can see why. 
As a matter of fact, we have to look only at a more recent statement of his than the hand-out to which he referred us today which, incidentally, is dated last July. We have to look only at something that he said last Thursday in answer to a Dorothy Dixer that he was asked by  Senator Hannan.  I ask honourable senators to ponder closely the words he spoke on that occasion because 1 am not suggesting - and I make this perfectly clear - that  Senator Greenwood  has anything but horror of bombing and the outrages that occurred the other day. I am not suggesting that he or others applaud that sort of thing. But let us have a look at the political attitude which blinds them to realities and which prevents them from ever getting off the ground in solving this problem. I quote what  Senator Greenwood  said in answer to a question last Thursday: 
I have an accumulating body of evidence which is giving ms the gravest concern that much is happening behind the scenes and is not being revealed; that there are agents provocateurs; that there are persons who are trouble makers; and that there are other people who are identifying themselves with the Croatian community with a view to causing trouble within that community. 
Let us have a look at that statement against the background of other statements made after the bombing outrages of last Saturday. I refer to the statements that were made by  Mr Wentworth  and  Dr Mackay  which are reported in this morning's 'Australian*. The burden of these statements, without quoting them at length, is that there is more than a suspicion that these outrages are really to be attributed to the communists. 
Did I hear an interjection from  Senator Withers?  I trust that in the course of this debate we will be favoured with the considered views of  Senator Withers  on this subject instead of the usual asinine sniping that we get from him when anything serious is being discussed. Will we get something thoughtful from him or will he just go on like this, as he always does? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, could I be protected against this puerile type of interjection that we get all the time from the other side of the chamber? In any event, I am suggesting that if we look at the comments of  Mr Wentworth  and  Dr Mackay  and at this comment by  Senator Greenwood  last Thursday, what we are getting is the absurd proposition that  President  Tito employs agents to blow up the premises of his own 
Government here in Australia in order to discredit an organisation, the Ustasha, which these people say does not exist. 
1 suggest that we hear some fantastic propositions in this place, and I have no doubt that we will continue to do so. But that is surely as absurd a proposition as we would get even from  Senator Little.  I have no doubt that if he contributes to this debate we will get similar egregious suggestions from him. In order to test this proposition that the Yugoslav Government employs agents to blow up its own buildings, for example, for a purpose which escapes me but which is clear to the genius behind me and no doubt to  Senator. Withers,  let us have a brief look at the list of outrages of which Saturday's incidents were the most recent example. This is a point that was made by  Senator McManus,  and may I say in passing that I considered that  Senator McManus  made one of the. more sensible contributions to this debate. Although I do not agree with his conclusions, I thought he gave a temperate and thoughtful speech on this matter. 
But I should like to take issue with  Senator McManus  on this one point. I think - I may be wrong - he made the point that some of these outrages had been against Croats themselves, and the conclusion that was sought to be drawn from that was that this does cast suspicion on the idea that the source of the outrages was the Croatian extremists because they. could not be expected to make attacks on their own people. But this is not a logical proposition at all. After all,  President  Tito is himself a Croat and I have conceded, as do all of us on this side of the chamber, that not all Croats are Ustasha or are extremists. In fact, we very well acknowledge that only a small proportion of Croats are extremists, terrorists and murderers. So the fact that some of these outrages were committed against Croats in no way disposes of the general proposition that we are advancing that these acts are to be laid at the door of Croatian extremists. 
Let us have a look at the list. It is as follows: On 1st January 1967 the office of the Yugoslav Consul-General in the 
Sydney harbourside suburb of Double Bay was bombed. On 24th April 1967 a petrol bomb was thrown into the home of the then Australian Labor Party candidate for St Kilda..  Mr Brian  Zouch. On 9th June 1969 there was a bomb explosion at the Yugoslav Consulate in Double Bay, Sydney. On 30th November 1969 a gelignite bomb blew out all the windows of the Yugoslav Embassy in Canberra. On 23rd November 1971 a bomb caused slight damage to the Adriatic Trade and Tourist Centre - the same one as was bombed on Saturday. 
In any event. I think it is common ground that both of the premises are the property and agencies of the Yugoslav Government. On I Hh January 1972 the base of a statue of a Serbian war time resistance leader was badly damaged by gelignite in Canberra. We have had some Balkan history lessons tonight. Some of them have been accurate and others have been less than accurate. I make the point that it is surely common knowledge from the contributions that we have listened to that General Mihailovic, whose statue was involved, was a leader of the Serbian Chetniks who would naturally draw the ire of Croatian extremists. On 6th April 1972 a bomb destroyed the flat of  Mr Marion  Jurjevic. 
I submit that the mere recital of this list of outrages makes it clear beyond reasonable doubt - I am not suggesting that it establishes a case which could be brought in the courts - on the part of those who are concerned with reasonable political probability that in these bombings is a pattern of anti- Yugoslav Government and anti-Serbian-Croatian separatism, lt is a reasonable assumption for any sophisticated political man - I hope that honourable senators on the other side are included in that definition - to conclude that these are the actions of people who are prepared to take terroristic means to enforce their notion of the idea of a separate Croatia, that is, a Croatia separated from the Yugoslavia of which they disapprove. 
We submit that there is in this list abundant proof of the existence of a con.tinuing murderous right wing conspiracy. It is living in political cloud cuckoo land to suggest otherwise. So the answer to the first question that I suggest is agitating the citizens of Australia is that there is in existence, no matter what the reluctant Attorney-General may believe, a right wing Croatian terrorist organisation - call it what you will, because we do not insist on calling it the Ustasha - and that it is responsible for this continuing spate of bombings. ; 
As a diversion, but because it has become relevant in the light of the little historical disquisitions that we have had tonight, I did a bit of research, with the assistance of the Research Section of the Parliamentary Library, into the history of the Ustasha and particularly into the history of this man, Ante Pavelic. I will freely concede that nobody on the other side went to bat for  Mr Pavelic.  He was referred to as a dictator. He was referred to in tones of disapproval. But the appropriate tone in which to refer to  Mr Pavelic  is one of horror and absolute contempt.  Senator Hannan  referred to a couple of his pet hates - Stalin and Cromwell. Well. I agree on Stalin who, frankly, is not a man for whom I would make any excuse for the crimes that he committed against his own people. 
He did, but I believe that the also committed great' crimes against his own people. Cromwell, I also agree, was a monster. He confined his crimes mostly against the Irish. But Pavelic is right up there in the league of monsters with Genghis Khan, Hitler and all the worst that our species has produced. 
To set the record straight I wish to remind honourable senators of a little history of the Ustasha. Even though I agree that we have no hard evidence that the people who are committing these crimes in Sydney could be proved in a court of law to belong to the Ustasha, I think this is a verbal quibble. They are the spiritual heirs of Ante Pavelic and they behave like Nazis and like the Ustasha. If honourable senators will bear with me, I will give them a little history of the Ustasha and of Ante Pavelic. The Ustasha was organised soon after the proclamation of. the Royal Yugoslav dictatorship in .1929 and it operated from bases in Italy and Hungary and committed a number of atrocities in the name of Croatian independence. The Ustasha was led almost from the outset by Ante Pavelic and its members were passionately anti-Serb and anti-semitic. Its aim was to dismember Yugoslavia and fo transform Croatia into a centralised corporate state based on the principles of fascism. The activities of the Ustasha were brought to the attention of a meeting of the League of Nations of 7th December 1934. It is curious to reflect that Australia was represented at that gathering by no less a revolutionary figure than the late Stanley Melbourne Bruce. The main issue at this meeting was the recent assassination of King Alexander, which the Yugoslav Government alleged was committed by Ustasha terrorists. Most people ever since have accepted the idea that the Ustasha was responsible for that death. Yugoslavia alleged that the terrorists were receiving protection from the Hungarian authorities. In its statement to the League Council the Yugoslav Government said: 
The camp in Hungary, a school for terrorists, a real criminal depot and the starting point of their action against Yugoslavia, could not exist in any organised country, and especially in a country whose police bear' so high a reputation, without the consent and assistance of the authorities. 
In other documents submitted to the League of Nations the Yugoslav Government referred to  Dr Pavelic  as 'the supreme head of the Ustasha'. It was stated that a pact of mutual assistance was concluded in 1929 between Pavelic and other chieftains in Yugoslavia. When Yugoslavia was occupied by the Axis Forces in April 1941, two quisling governments were established, one in Croatia and one in Serbia. By far the most important was the Ustasha state of Croatia. It was proclaimed on 10th April, with German guidance and assistance, by Slavko Kvaternik, a former  Colonel of  the AustroHungarian Army and an important Ustasha leader. According to the Ustasha ideology, the independent state of Croatia was to be a one nation state and Serbian people in its territory, which numbered about 2 million and comprised of about one third of the population, were to be eliminated partly by conversion to Roman Catholicism, partly by explusion, and partly by what turned out to be the preferred method, extermination. The Ustasha regime went about the realisation of this aim with systematic and ruthless determination. The Jews of Croatia were also  a  target of the regime's brutality. The estimated number of persons exterminated by the regime varies between half a million and more than 1 million. One of the most authoritive accounts by J. Tomasevich in Yugoslavia during the Second World War', published by the University of California in 1969, claims that about 350,000 Serbs alone were indiscriminately slaughtered by the Ustasha. This account states that it also slaughtered many thousands of anti-Ustasha Croats, Jews, and Gypsies. This is relevant on the point I mentioned earler that the fact that Croats had been the victims of some of these outrages does not absolve the Ustasha or some similar organisation. During 1941 and 1942 it pursued a policy of forced conversion, through which between 200,000 and 300,000 members of Serbian Orthodox Church were converted tq Roman Catholicism. 
Now, these were npt just ordinary monsters. These people did not belong in the minor league because no less a person than the German diplomat Von Hassell - a German diplomat of World War II - recorded in his diary that the Nazi military commander in Croatia 'called Marshal Kvaternik to account in the sharpest manner for the incredible cruelties practised by the Croats against the 1,800,000 Serbs', and even submitted a report oh the subject. He told Kvaternik that in late years he had lived through a great many, thing of this kind but nothing could compare with the misdeeds of the Croats. At the . end of the war the Allies, acknowledging that this had been a monstrous regime, returned to Yugoslavia most of the members of the Ustasha Government of Croatia and some of them, like Kvaternik were tried in Yugoslavia and sentenced to death. The infamous Pavelich, the man who has been referred to with disapproval but, I suggest, not with sufficient horror by the members of the Government, escaped to Argentina, reportedly with the assistance of the Nazi escape organisation ODESSA. 
I think not. 1 think it is well that it should be on record because, as I say, these are the spiritual forbears of the worst of the Croatian extremists. 

Nothing that I am saying about the horrors perpetrated by Pavelich is to be taken as condonation or approval of or a soft attitude to any of the other monstrosities that were committed during the War. I said quite clearly at the start of my statement tonight that I do not approve of what has happened in the Painters and Dockers Union, that I did not approve of the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia and that I did not approve of the Stalin purges. I do not want anything I am saying to be interpreted as selective indignation. I am opposed to horrors, pogroms, slaughters and bomb outrages no matter where they occur. 
Violence of all sorts. In any event, to complete the monstrous story of Pavelich, he returned finally to Europe and died in Spain in 1959. I apologise for that lengthy digression, but. in the light of, the fact- 
I am not suggesting that the ghost of  Dr Pavelich  planted bombs in George Street, Sydney. I had hoped the honourable senator would stick with me for long enough to know that that was not the burden of my remarks. The next point I wish to come to- 
I said earlier that this information was extracted for me by the research service of the Parliamentary Library. 
No, there is not. I do not know whether  Senator Little  is questioning my veracity by his constant interjections. 

 Senator Little - No. 1 am just saying that it is just as logical to suggest that every Russian is responsible for Stalin's crimes and every German for Hitler's crimes as it is to suggest that every Croat is responsible for Pavelich 's crimes. (Honourable senators interjecting) 

 - Mr 

Acting Deputy President, in the interests of enabling me to continue my remarks, I suggest that something should be done to keep order. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Order! Honourable senators should stop arguing among themselves and allow  Senator James  McClelland to continue his speech. 
The second question that I suggest would be bothering- the citizenry of Sydney and Australia generally is: Are the Commonwealth Police and ASIO - the security organisations of this country - doing their job properly? I suggest that we are entitled to have some doubts on this point when we are reminded as recently as today by the AttorneyGeneral that the documents seized by the police, including the Commonwealth Police, in raids on Croatian residences several weeks ago as yet remain untranslated. Does that indicate any sense Qf urgency about the existence of these terrorists in our midst? We are accustomed to hearing from the Attorney-General as an alibi for the lack of urgent legislation in this Parliament the claim that we do not have enough Parliamentary counsel. But are we to be given the same alibi in this matter? Are there not enough people in this country who understand the Yugoslav language to be pressed into service to translate these documents? Is that seriously put or is the real explanation of the failure to follow up police investigations the fact that the Attorney-General and the Government are not greatly concerned about this problem? I am not suggesting that they are not concerned now. After *all, when bombs go off in George Street, Sydney, this matter is dragged right into the centre of the political arena. I am sure the AttorneyGeneral is concerned now. I am sure  Mr McMahon  is concerned. But until the matter had been dragged right into the centre of the political arena these people could not find enough translators to translate documents that were seized in police searches. 
I have been told, and I have no occasion to doubt it, that ASIO has penetrated deeply into the Communist Party of this country - in fact, that it has agents in the highest organs of the Communist Party. I do not find that at all extraordinary. I do not ask the Attorney-General to confirm or deny this, but does any member of the Senate regard it as an unbelievable proposition? Why do we not have similar enterprise in relation to right wing organisations. Is it beyond the wit of our security organisations to find people among tho Yugoslav community whom they could plant in the various Croatian liberation movements? Is that impermissable conduct in relation to right wing organisations but permissable conduct in relation to left wing organisations? I suggest that this is another illustration of the bias and the selectivity of the Government that prevents it from being an efficient investigator of the situation. 
It has been suggested that a Senate committee is not an appropriate body to conduct this task. We freely agree that it is not the most appropriate body. 

Because we believe that we cannot trust this Government and, on their record, we cannot trust the Commonwealth Police or ASIO to do the job. Sixteen bombings have occurred and all we have witnessed is a constant throwing up of hands and a disclaimer of any possibility of their solution. Do we not, as people who are concerned with the safety of the streets of our city and of our fellow countrymen, have to look around for an alternative means of solving this problem? The Government says that we should leave it to those people who have not been able to come up with anything for 8 or 10 years and that a Senate committee is not an appropriate body to conduct an investigation. We acknowledge that it is not the most appropriate body to do it. But we have to do something. We have also said that if the Government agrees to a more appropriate body conducting it we will forget about this proposition. If the 
Government were to do as the Prime Minister has suggested, but with which the Attorney-General does not agree- 
The 
Attorney-General has not agreed, has he? 
We have asked him. I put it right on the line to  Senator Jessop.  Does the honourable senator agree with the holding of a royal commission? 
But does the honourable senator agree with that proposition. If he does we will wipe this one. 
I suggest that if  Senator Jessop  is as vague about his intentions as that he should cease interjecting. We say that the security organisations and the police forces of this country are the most appropriate bodies to investigate this matter. But we say that if they are not being sufficiently driven by the Government to do their job properly - they have had 8 years and they have come up with nothing - we have to look to the alternatives. We say that the second best alternative is a Senate committee. The best alternative is a royal commission. But if we cannot receive an assurance from the Government that it will have a royal commission we will have to settle for a Senate standing committee. 
Other shortcomings have been suggested about a Senate committee hearing. The Attorney-General said that at a Senate committee nearing people can be defamed and people's names can be ruined with no chance of reply. I suggest that the AttorneyGeneral and, of course,  Senator Jessop  who is much more experienced in these matters, know that a Senate standing committee has the right and the power to take evidence in camera. If names were being bandied about, presumably such evidence could be taken in camera. I suggest that this committee might also have a precious advantage which would overcome a matter which the Government claims has been bedevilling its efforts to solve these problems up to now. What have we heard from  speaker  after speaker? We have heard that crimes in the community generally remain unsolved because people will not come forward and volunteer information. When a terrorist organisation is operating in this community people who have information would be understandably reluctant to come forward with that information, especially newcomers who might not sufficiently appreciate the degree of protection to which they are entitled from the law enforcement agencies of this country. It is just possible that if they had assurances of protection from the sovereign body of this country, the Parliament of Australia, we could cut the Gordian knot. People who would not be prepared to volunteer information to the police force would come forward to one of our committees. 
As 

 Senator Devitt says, information has been volunteered to committees. This is one of the great merits of the committee system. Our committees, such as the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse and the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange have unearthed information which, I suggest with respect, would not have been forthcoming to any other agency in this country. Is it not just possible that if we cannot have a Royal Commission - which I agree would be preferable - the next best thing is to have a standing committee of this Senate investigate this matter? As I say, people might come forward who have not been prepared to come forward up to now. 
This brings me to the last point which I wish to raise. I suggest that this point is agitating the minds of citizens of this country. It is: What is the attitude of this Government to uncovering this plot, to solving this problem? I suggest that we on this side of the chamber have amply demonstrated that beyond peradventure, beyond all reasonable doubt, these bombings are the work of an extremist, right wing Croatian terrorist organisation - call it what you like. But this Government and its law enforcement agencies which had no difficulty in throwing a few Aborigines off the lawns - a problem which is well out of its reach - finds itself completely balked by the problem of solving  this much more important matter which involves threats to the lives and property of Australians and of people who have taken refuge in this country, people who have come to this country believing that it will be safe, and the representatives in this country of a sovereign state. Are not the people of Australia entitled to ask how sincere and determined is this Government in its efforts to crush these terrorists? 1 have quoted the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  and the Attorney-General. I think I have demonstrated beyond contradiction that this. Government is not convinced of what its. Department of Foreign Affairs and every newspaper in the country is abundantly convinced of, that is, that these outrages are the work of a right wing organised Croatian movement. 
The honourable senator asks ' what the newspapers would know about it. This is an example of selectivity. "How does the honourable senator know anything about what is happening in the Painters and Dockers Union except what he has read in the newspapers? Why does he believe those stories but refuse to believe these stories? 
I am not denying what happens there. I am asking the honourable, senator why he chooses to believe one report but not the other. But out of habit, out of a reflex action, this Government either directly or by implication blames the communists for everything. That is why we do not trust the Attorney-General or this Government to take action on any report, if they get one from their foot dragging police Or the security ' organisation. 
No, I am hot. I suggest that the police are only as determined- 
All right. Let me give the senator an example of the way in which the police can be influenced by a government. The year before last there were some demonstrations in connection with the moratorium. I know that honourable senators opposite regard them as the work of the devil but, nonetheless, there were separate moratorium demonstrations in several cities. One was held in Melbourne where there was no sooling on by the Government. It was entirely peaceful. One was held in Sydney on the eve of a State election in which  Mr Askin,  the Premier of New South Wales, sooled on the police. This was evidenced by the fact that the police put the boot into the demonstrators without any provocation whatsoever. This is a matter of record. I have witnessed this myself. I suggest that the attitude of the police force can be, and as a matter of practice is, influenced by the riding instructions it gets and by the attitude of the government which is ultimately responsible for police action. I have been accused of being over denigratory of the Attorney-General in the past. I say to him quite sincerely that not for one moment am I suggesting that he approves of the bombings. He is probably very disturbed about them. 
I agree with that. I do not put it as high as suggesting that he applauds this sort of thing, nor do I suggest that the Government does. But what I suggest in all seriousness is that the political blinkers which this Government wears blind it to the political realities and disqualify it from the job of solving this urgent and horrible problem. For that reason I commend this motion to the Senate. 
Motion (by  Senator Greenwood)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
Has the Attorney-General been involved in discussions this week with the Prime Minister regarding the possibility of the preparation of a Bil) related to the vetting and control of foreign takeovers within Australian commerce and industry? If so, what was the outcome of those discussions? What is the likelihood of legislation governing foreign takeovers being introduced into the Parliament before it is prorogued? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What were the numbers of meat inspectors and veterinarians employed by the Department of Primary Industry at 30th June 1972. 
What was the total tonnage of meat exported from Australia in 1971-72. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN - The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
1378 meat inspectors and 156 veterinary officers. 
719,400 tons. 
I present the following petition from 14 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the need's of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money is being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My  question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer him to an answer which he gave to a question asked by  Senator Murphy  earlier today in which he stated that the acquisition of the fleet of Jetair Australia Ltd made the 5 Royal Australian Air Force DC3s which the Department of Foreign Affairs had acquired earlier in the year available for shipping to Cambodia. I refer him also to an answer given in the other place on 18th February 1971 by the Prime Minister, which contained these words: 
As to the purchase of the aircraft, a little over a year ago negotiations were commenced for the purchase and delivery to Cambodia, Laos and Nepal of 11 aircraft- 6 to Cambodia, 3 to Laos and 2 to Nepal. 
Will the Minister agree that, in the light of the answer that he gave to  Senator Murphy,  that statement by the Prime Minister must have been a falsehood? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the statement which he made to the Senate on 27th September concerning the Jetair Australia Ltd transaction, especially to paragraph 16 of his statement, which contains the following words: 
The price $275,000 compares favourably with the value assessed by means of the TAA formula $227,587. 
Will the Minister explain how, from the point of view of a purchaser, a figure of $275,000 compares favourably with a figure of $227,000? Will he also explain the nature of the Trans-Australia Airlines formula? Does it take account of such matters as the condition of passenger fitments and spares supplied? Does he agree, as has been stated in answer to a previous question, that the value of spares was $18,000 and that if the amount of $18,000 is added to the amount of $227,000 there is still a difference of $30,000 between that total and the sum of $275,000? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask the Minister whether his attention has been drawn to a passage of the speech of the Prime Minister in the other place last Thursday concerning the Jetair transaction which read as follows: 
Ministerial authority for the approval of the funds for aid purposes was in the hands of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Department. Ministerial responsibility for the actual purchase was covered in the administrative orders by the Department of Supply. In the final analysis that Department was the one that finished the transactions and said that the negotiation was satisfactory. 
Does the Minster accept the clear implication from this statement that responsibility for the procedural irregularity of this transaction rests on him as the then Minister for Supply and not on  Mr McMahon  as the then Minister for Foreign Affairs? 
1080 POISON 
I rise to speak in what I think is my maiden speech in an adjournment debate. I do not ask for any of the usual dispensations or allowances that apply to maiden speeches because what I have to say actually is said in the hope of provoking from some authorative members of the coalition Government an answer to what has become quite a vexing problem. We on this side of the Senate - and, I am sure the public at large - have become confused as to the real attitude of the members of the coalition Government towards the fascist body known as the League of Rights. I do not use the word 'fascist' loosely. I know that words sometimes are tossed around a little loosely by the pro tagonists of law and order who sit opposite, especially the word 'communist'. My authority for using the word 'fascist' as applied to this body comes from none other than a leading member of the coalition to whom I Wil refer n a few moments. Howeven, unfortunately for clarity of the definition, this is not the only voice we hear from the coalition. We have, for example, the view of  Mr Anthony,  the  deputy  leader of the coalition who speaks rather equivocally on the matter. Certainly one might assume from some of his utterances that he is quite clearly against the League of Rights and regards it as a reprehensible organisation. For instance, we have as a guide what he said at the annual conference of the South Australian branch of the Country Party held at a place called Nuriootpa  -  I am indebted to my colleague  Senator Cavanagh  for the pronunciation - on 6th August  1971.  I ask the indulgence of the Senate to quote briefly what  Mr Anthony  said on this point: 
At this point may 1 refer briefly to a matter which has been given some prominence in the press in South Australia recently, that is the activities of the League of Rights. 
The claim was made here by  Mr Clyde  Cameron that the Country Party was 'a creature' of the League 1 want to make it quite plain that  Mr Cameron's  rather extravagant claim is wrong. I want to dissociate the Country Party from any connection with the League of Rights. 
I want to warn country people of the dangers of becoming involved with this movement, which is certainly trying to capitalise on the serious difficulties in which country people find themselves at the moment. 
I understand that  Mr Anthony  has since claimed that these difficulties have disappeared. He was speaking in August  1971.  He went on to say: 
The League of Rights also is trying to 'horn in' on the Country Parry's own objectives, and use the Country Party along with other organisations as a means to push its own views. 
If we were to rely only on that as an expression of  Mr Anthony's  views, I would suggest that it was a clear enough statement of where the  deputy  leader of the Government stands. However, under pressure from some members of the Country Party and some people whom he evidently hoped would vote for him he resiled somewhat from that rather positive view on another occasion. On 9th September 1971 he said in answer to a constituent: 
I refer to your letter of the 1st September 1971 concerning my reply to a question asked of me during the recent conference of the South Australian Country Party. The statement to which exception has been taken is my comment that in the past the League of Rights tended in its ideas to be  anti-semetic,  pro-nazi and  racialistic. 
Very few people have questioned my use of the terms 'anti Semitic' or 'racialistic' but they have questioned my use of the term 'pro nazi". The term pro nazi* may have been an inappropriate expression. It was based on the anti Semitic and racialistic ideas, resembling those of the Nazi party, which have appeared in earlier publications of the league. 
As strong exception seems to be taken to the use of the phrase 'has tended in its ideas in the past to be pro nazi', I have no wish to persist in its use. 
However, another authorative member of his own Party,  Mr Sinclair,  was a little more forthright. Speaking at the Wesley Church forum in Melbourne in August of this year  Mr Sinclair  is reported in the Daily Telegraph' of 21st August 1972 as follows: 
. anti-semitism was being deliberately fostered by the League of Rights and the Nazi Party. 
He went on to say: 
. both organisations were 'fossils of the decadent and debauched fascism of the thirties and forties' and should be abhorrent to every Australian. 
The picture becomes a little muddy when we consider the views of that great Queensland democrat,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  who, as we know, is under slightly more pressure from the activities of the League of Rights, who went to the extent of having this organisation investigated and who is on record as having said: 
Some of their policies are just a rehash of ours. 
He has a wife who reminds me in a way of the wife of the ex-Attorney-General of the United States - a rather loud-mouthed woman named  Mrs Mitchell  who was constantly embarrassing her husband. She was a little less diplomatic than  Mrs BjelkePetersen. 
That is right. I do not know exactly what they call  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen.  She is on record as saying: 
The League's policies on anti-communism and raising the morality of the community are good. 
Then we come to another prominent member of the Government,  Mr Nixon,  who is the Minister for Shipping and Transport and who is alleged by  Mr Jeremy  Lee, the Queensland Director of the League of Rights, to have dissociated himself from  Mr Sinclair's  attack. Although  Mr Nixon  has since denied that he has dissociated himself from  Mr Sinclair's  attack, he has not publicly endorsed his  Deputy  Leader's remarks. To muddy the waters further we have the views of a Queensland Country Party back bencher,  Mr J.  Corbett, who is on record as having said: 
A lot of very fine people who support the League worked for me in the last election. 
He denied that the organisation was in any way anti-semitic or pro-Nazi. We come to the recorded words of the Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood  - that enthusiastic although rather selective upholder of law and order. A publication, which gives rise to my remarks tonight, called 'On Target", copies of which may be inspected in the Parliamentary Library, is a weekly commentary produced by the League of Rights, which has the very praiseworthy slogan which I am sure will commend itself to the Attorney-General: 'The Price of Freedom is Eternal Vigilance'. I am glad that  Senator Greenwood  is present to hear my remarks because I think that he, of all members of the Government, is the one who is called upon the most to introduce some clarity in these dark places, in the interests of the Australian community, and to state that both the major parties are dedicated to the upholding of democracy and are in no way tainted by  -  I cannot remember the exact words of  Mr Sinclair  - this fossil from the past, this ugly spectre of fascism.  Senator Greenwood  is reported in this publication as having written a letter to  Mr Eric  Butler. The Minister will not need to be reminded who  Mr Butler  is. I think the Minister has acknowledged that he has heard of  Mr Butler. Senator Greenwood  is alleged to have said in a letter to  Mr Eric  Butler dated 5th October: 
So far as I am aware the Australian League of Rights is not engaged in activities that are proscribed by law and in that context it is capable of being described as a 'reputable organisation'. 
The same publication, in a further reference to the Attorney-General, quotes a question asked by another great democrat of this institution,  Senator Little,  who I am sorry to see is not in his seat. The document from which I am quoting states: 
On Thursday, 14th September,  Senator J.  A. Little from Victoria, placed the following question on the Senate notice paper: 'Has the AttorneyGeneral's Department any evidence to indicate whether there is any substance for an allegation made by the Honourable Ian Sinclair that the Australian League of Rights and the Nazi Parly are closely linked? The Attorney-General has to date not answered this question, simply because he would have to say that there is no substance whatever in  Mr Sinclair's  allegation. 
Knowing the honourable senator as we do and knowing his reluctance to uncover right wing activities, contrasted wtih his eagerness to sniff out anything at all suspicious on the Left, 1 am inclined to think that at this point al least we on this side of the chamber would have to agree with the prediction made in the document that we will not get an answer from the Attorney-General to this question. Incidentally, by way of comic relief, another edition of this weekly commentary which I examined in the Library this afternoon - the issue of 23rd June of this year - while praising  Senator Greenwood  for one of his more egregious law and order statements went on to criticise him and his Government for following what is referred to in the publication as Marxist finance economic politics. We on this side of the chamber do not ask the Attorney-General to disclaim any addiction to Marxist finance economic politics. That is not the purpose of my speaking tonight. What I really want to know is this: In a statement which is attributed to  Mr Hunt,  a Minister of the Government, which statement is referred to in this publication and which is alleged to have been made at a place called Perenjori in Western Australia,  Mr Hunt  is alleged to have said certain things. I am indebted to my highly literate colleague  Senator Wheeldon  for the pronunciation of Perenjori. I quote from the 20th October issue of the League of Rights journal again. It reads: 
THE HON. R. HUNT ON HIS  DEPUTY 
LEADER: On Monday, October 2nd, the  Hon.  Ralph Hunt, Country Party Minister for the Interior, addressed a meeting in Perenjori, Western Australia. In discussion after the meeting  Mr Hunt  told the League of Rights supporters that  Mr Eric  Butler and The League of Rights were doing a good job and that he had at one time subscribed to The 'New Times' for 3 years.  Mr Hunt  expressed the view that the communists were behind the Ustasha business. . . . 
We have heard similar suggestions from the other side of the Senate recently. Maybe the source of that information is the same as  Mr Hunt's  source - that is, the League of Rights. The article continues: 

 Mr Hunt expressed the view that the communists were behind the Ustasha business and the agitation for Aboriginal land rights. 
We heard echoes of that today. The article continues: 
When asked why had his  Deputy  Leader, the  Hon.  Ian Sinclair. Minister for Primary Industry, attacked the League of Rights, which was doing so much against communism.  Mr Hunt  replied that  Mr Sinclair  had been 'brainwashed'. It is a pity that  Mr Hunt  was not asked who did the brainwashing. 
There is a suggestion later on that that is the result of some Jewish conspiracy. Even with this protestation  Mr Hunt  does not earn the unequivocal admiration of this Nazi-Fascist organisation because evidently he does not always speak with the same voice. The articles continues: 
Like many modern politicians,  Mr Hunt  is a  man for all seasons.  His  favourable words about the League of Rights at Perenjori, expressed when he knew he was in the middle of a group of League supporters are rather different from his blatant misrepresentation of  Mr Eric  Butler and  Mr Jeremy  Lee, at a Wellington, NSW meeting when he attacked them for going around the country advocating 'unlimited printing-press money'. It should also be recorded that  Mr Hunt  was quick to make it clear to The 'Sydney Morning Herald' that he had not dissociated himself from the Sinclair attack on the League by writing lo  Mr Lee  following  Mr Lee's  resignation from the  Country Party. All that he had done was to express regret that  Mr Lee  had felt it necessary to resign from the Country Party. 
The question that I would like answered - I am sure everybody on this side of the Senate would like it answered - is this: What is the official and authentic attitude of the coalition Government to the League of Rights? Is it the attitude of  Mr Anthony  and if so, which  Mr Anthony  - the  Mr Anthony  who at Nuriootpa sounded rather categorical in his condemnation of the League of Rights or the  Mr Anthony  who found it necessary to square off to a constituent who was a little put out by his comment? Is it the view of  Mr Hunt,  and if so which  Mr Hunt  - the  Mr Hunt  of Perenjori, or the  Mr Hunt  of Wellington, New South Wales? Perhaps it is the more unequivocal view of  Mr Corbett,  that Queensland intellectual I quoted a little earlier. Is it the view of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  or the slightly more forthright view of  Mrs Bjelke-Petersen?  Is it the view of  Mr Nixon? 
Is it the view of  Senator Greenwood,  and if so which view of  Senator Greenwood?  We know where  Senator Greenwood  stands on the matter of the Ustasha:  His  attitude is that there is not one. We know where he stands on matters such as the Communist influenced left wing unionists Australian Labor Party. He is quite forthright on these matters. Some of us might say that he is inclined to be a little loquacious on these matters. But what is the official line? What is  Senator Greenwood's  line on the League of Rights? Is it possible that the answer to this question depends on where the answer is given - whether it is given in Perenjori, in the Wesley Church or in Wellington, New South Wales, or does it depend on who he is talking to and has it, perhaps, nothing to do with principle whatsoever? 
 I have an alternative suggestion to put to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  I suggest that if he were to call  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Wright  to his room and explain to them that garrulousness and tedious repetition are not to be equated with political wisdom it would solve all of his problems of time. 
My question is directed to the Attorney General. Was there any communication from him or from his Department in respect of the article by  Mr Evan  Williams on Jetair Australia Ltd which appeared in the 'Australian' newspaper about a week ago in which it was suggested that the article was being examined by the AttorneyGeneral or his Department to determine whether it might form the basis of a prosecution for criminal libel? 
My question is directed to the Attorney General. I refer to the article appearing in the 'Australian' newspaper of last Friday over the name of the AttorneyGeneral. I ask him: Did his negotiations with that newspaper to secure the publication of his version of the Jetair case include threats of action for libel and criminal libel? If so, does he regard such an approach as a proper use of the hitherto respected office of AttorneyGeneral? 
My question is directed to the AttorneyGeneral. Is it not a fact that, following he appearance in the 'Australian' newspaper on 23rd October of an article on Jetair Australia Ltd by Evan Williams, the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Bo  a en, who is also a lawyer, wrote a letter in strong terms to the 'Australian' warning that newspaper that the article by F.v.m Williams was actionable? Did this not constitute intimidation of that newspaper? Following receipt of this letter, did the Australian' offer to allow  Mr Bowen  to write an article in answer to Evan Williams' article? Did  Senator Greenwood  then submit his article which was subsequently published? If these be the facts, did  Senator Greenwood  know these facts when he answered my question yesterday and, if so, does he consider that he answered them frankly? 
 I heard an interjection from the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in answer to  Senator Cavanagh's  point. If I took it down correctly, it was as follows: 'Do you decline to use a power if it is a desirable use of power?' Is that what the Minister said? 
I was listening. I ask the Minister to correct me. What was his interjection? 
Was it: 'If it is a doubtful use of power*? 
If that is what the Attorney-General said, it is even more damaging to his pretensions to be some sort of legal authority. It is certainly quite inconsistent with the practice followed by his Party. It is a very familiar experience for honourable senators on this side of the chamber to hear that all sorts of desirable pieces of legislation have been eschewed or rejected because there is some doubt as to whether power exists under the Constitution. Perhaps the best illustration that can be given is the alibi that this Government has used over many years about the true meaning of the corporation powers. I suggest that when it suits this Government to find that a head of power is doubtful it aggravates and exaggerates the doubt and claims that this sets up an absolute barrier to the introduction of the desirable legislation. But it is not a problem to stretch the Constitution when it suits the Government's purposes. J certainly heard the Attorney-General appeal to the authority which he believes is conveyed by placitum  51  (XXiiiA.) of the Constitution for the introduction of this Bill.  1  would like him to tell me specifically from which phrase or subheading in sub-placitum  (XXiiiA.)  he receives the power to introduce this Bill. I will read the sub-placitum for the benefit of honourable senators, it confers on the Parliament the power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to: 
The provision of maternity allowances- 
That  is  hardly this case -  widows' pensions- 
I cannot see how the Minister can shelter under that umbrella -  child endowment- 
It is hardly that -  unemployment- 
It is certainly not that -  pharmaceutical, sickness and hospital benefits, medical and dental services (but not so as to authorise any form of civil conscription), benefits to students and family allowances: 
For the enlightenment of honourable senators, will the Attorney-General tell us under which specific phrase he believes the Commonwealth has the power to introduce this Bill? 
 As my colleague  Senator Bishop  has indicated, we on this side of the chamber acknowledge that this Bill represents a step forward. But in this as in other spheres of government I find it rather sad that this Government should continue rather slowly to follow other peoples' footsteps rather than act as a trail blazer in this highly important field. As  Senator Bishop  pointed out, an unmistakeable trend has developed in the industrial world in the last year or two. He instanced the number of agreements which have been signed in important segments of industry, including the building industry and the metal trades industry, accepting the principle of full pay during incapacity. As we see by examining this Bill, the Government belatedly has partially come to an acceptance of this principle. 
The most substantial amendments to this Bill which will be moved by the Labor Party may be summed up in a single phrase: The Australian Labor Party believes that a worker or his or her dependants should not suffer financial disability as a result of a physical disability, be it temporary, permanent or fatal, which is incurred in the course of employment. This Bill, we acknowledge, as I said at the outset, takes some step forward in this direction. But it is a hesitant and slow sort of step and it is hard to see why the Goverment, having embraced the principle, could not have gone the full distance. As  Senator Bishop  has pointed out, the notion of a proportion of the ordinary wage as being adequate compensation is partially abandoned in the Government's acceptance of the notion of payment being at the rate of full sick pay. Here again the Government has gone part of the distance but not so far as it could have gone - as will be immediately realised by an examination of my Party's formula for payment at the rate of average weekly earnings. This formula would include payment of overtime and would therefore accept the principle that we advance, that an injured worker or his dependants should suffer no financial loss at all if that worker is incapacitated. 
There is a similar unwillingness to go the full distance in the Government's limitation of the right to receive full sick pay beyond the period of 26 weeks. Once again it is hard to see in logic why this should be so. The Government says that if a man is injured he will now receive compensation at the rate of full sick pay for 26 weeks and that his entitlement alters thereafter. I have heard from time to time justifications of allowing compensation at a rate which would put the worker or his family in exactly the same position as they would have been in but for the injury; the most familiar argument of course is that malingering must be deterred. If in fact it is just as good financially to be on compensation as it is to be at work, the argument runs, there will always be a certain number of people in the community who will prefer to pretend that they cannot work. That is an argument which does not appeal to me and which flies in the face of my personal experience when I was practising law. 
I undertook a certain amount of this work and I found that the man who wanted to profiteer from his injury, as it were, was a very rare bird indeed, and that the overwhelming proportion of self respecting workers - and that is the overwhelming proportion of workers - wanted to get back to work as soon as they could and resume a normal life. I see no justification for this limitation of the right based on the idea that there is here and there in society- and I acknowledge that there is - the odd malingerer. In any event, this is an argument which has not carried any weight in the spheres mentioned by  Senator Bishop  where agreements have already been negotiated and are in fact operating, that is, in the building industry and the metal trades industries, which are major segments of the economy. There the principle has been accepted that not for  26  weeks but during the total period cf incapacity a worker and his family are entitled to suffer no financial disability as a result of an unfortunate physical injury which the worker has suffered. 
The other aspect of the question of injury is the death of the breadwinner. We say that even though the Government may appear to have recognised the dwindling value of money by raising the widow's entitlement from  $13,500  to  $14,500,  this approach really misses the point I have been making, that a worker's family should not suffer any penalty because of an injury to the worker whether it be temporary, permanent or fatal. After all, in an inflationary period who is there in this chamber who would suggest that a fund of  $14,500,  especially for, say, a widow of  35  to  40  years of age without much prospect of remarriage and with perhaps four or five young children, is any sort of an adequate cushion against adversity or any sort of a fund upon which to build a future life for herself and her children, unpenalised by the death of the breadwinner? Our proposal is that a widow with children relying upon her should continue to receive the same weekly payment while those children are dependent upon her as she would have received from the breadwinner but for his accident. 
Our amendments do not leave it at that: we take account of various contingencies such as remarriage, death of the widow or widower and changes to the circumstances of the dependants, the most obvious change being that they cease to be dependants. In short, in relation to death from injury as in relation to injury from while a worker recovers and is able to go back to his work, we adopt the same general principle which is in line wilh modern notions of social welfare and with modern conscience that people who work in industry and who are injured in the course of their work, and their dependants, should suffer no financial handicap because of that physical disability. We do not suggest for one moment that any government of any colour can ever succeed in preventing the tragedy of serious injury or the death of a breadwinner. But it can take some of the tragedy out of the circumstances by ensuring that the principle we espouse is embodied in law, that is, that there should be no financial penalty for physical injury. 
I ask the Attorney-General: Has he caused any  investigations to be made into the oft repeated assertion of the previous AttorneyGeneral that there is no credible evidence of the existence in Australia of any Croatian terrorist organisation? If so, what are the results of such investigations? Will the AttorneyGeneral table in the Senate any reports in his possession touching these investigations? 
The word 'asininity' was singularly appropriate in  Senator Wright's  mouth since he has treated the Senate to a typical performance of braying like a donkey. Whatever else we have learned from this debate we have certainly discovered thai the Opposition knows very little about the industrial laws which it has administered and. in many cases, introduced in the course of the near quarter of a century in which it held office. We have heard emotional language from  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Carrick  in particular, phrases like 'economic blackmail', 'coercion' and 'compulsory unionism through the back door'. We even had the quaint experience of hearing that great libertarian  Senator Greenwood  invoke the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I must admit that I rubbed my eyes when I heard this from him. However, this was what he offered us as a substitute for rational thought or some sort of genuine legal analysis on the subject we are debating tonight.  Senator Bishop,  of course, had to remind him that the Government of which he was a member and previous governments of his Party had not always been consistent to his cherished notion that compulsory unionism is a great evil to be fought tooth and nail, in particular in the case of the stevedoring and railway industries where there have been cases of compulsory unionism. 
What I should like to point out to the Opposition is that there is nothing new in what the Public Service Arbitrator has done in this case. His determination was made in accordance with legislation that was either on the statute book throughout the period of the Liberal Government or was actually enacted by such governments. Let me look at the sections of the Public Service Arbitration Act under which the Arbitrator made these determinations. I refer, firstly, to section 12, and I invite the Senate to favour me with some attention to what is provided in this section. Section 1 2 (2.) reads as follows: 
An organisation is entitled to submit to the Arbitrator by memorial any claim relating to the conditions of employment of members of the organisation. 
I ask honourable senators to pay particular attention to the last words of that sentence - of members of the organisation'. In other words it is envisaged that an application by a claimant union to the Arbitrator should be confined to members of that union. In other words, there is jurisdiction in the Arbitrator to do just what is complained of in this case, that is, to give benefits limited to members of the union. True, further sections in the Act, in particular section 14 (e), empower the Arbitrator, if he so wishes, to do this: 
To declare by any order that any term of a determination shall, subject to such conditions, exceptions, and limitations as are declared In the order, be a common rule of the Public Service or of any branch or part of the Public Service: 
In other words, the Arbitrator may, if he so decides, make an award or a determination which is not limited to the members of the claimant union. However, this merely under lines the point I am making. The fact that section 14 is there underlines the fact that the Arbitrator has jurisdiction unless this discretion is invoked to give benefits which are specifically limited to members of the claimant union. I would also draw the attention of honourable senators to the Public Service Regulations, and in particular regulation 74b which reads as follows: 
Where in any determination under the Arbitration (Public Service) Act 1920-1934- 
That is how long it has been there - before 1934- 
. rates of pay or conditions of employment are prescribed in relation to any officer or class of officers, or employees or class of employees, those rates of pay or conditions of employment, or any of those rates or conditions, may be applied to any other officer or class of officers, or employee or class of employees, as the Board determines. 
This fills out the picture. In the first place the policy of the Act is that a claimant union may approach the Public Service Arbitrator for benefits confined to members of that union. 
You will hear it if you will follow me. 
You are having some difficulty following me? 
Listen and you will learn something. 
Listen and you will learn something. The primary policy of the Act is that the claimant union may make a claim for its members alone. Then comes section 14, then the regulation which complements section 12 by saying that in one case the Arbitrator may extend the benefits to other than union members. In another case the Board itself may extend the benefits of the determination to other than union members. But those provisions merely underline the fact that it was envisaged in the Act itself that benefits could be confined to members of a claimant union alone. Those who are clamouring so loudly against the outrage of what the Arbitrator has done have had the opportunity since 1920 to remove section 12 which, in a slightly different form. was in the Act in 1920 when the Act was introduced. In 1956 a Liberal government amended the Act but put in section 12 (2.) in the words which I have quoted. 
I do not know, but in any event these people, who are so outraged that an Arbitrator could do this allegedly totally novel thing of conferring benefits only upon a claimant union's members, have had an opportunity since 1920 to take this section out of the Act. Yet in 1956 they put it back in the Act in a slightly amended form but in a form which preserves this right of the Arbitrator to do this highly discriminatory act. In case it should be thought that this is a power which is never availed of, let me recall a case in my own experience  -  1 think it occurred in 1966  -  when in fact the Public Service Arbitrator specifically limited the benefits of a determination to the members of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, and specifically excluded other people from the benefits of that determination. If these people were genuine, if they were outraged by the possibility that this sort of thing could happen, why did they not take section 12 (2.) out of the Act instead of confirming it in the Act in 1956? 
Exactly.  Senator Carrick  in the course of saying many extraordinary, hyperbolic, emotional things, made this extraordinary statement: 'Preference to unionists is the same thing basically as compulsory unionism. It is a back door method of introducing compulsory unionism'. I would again remind the honourable senator that preference to unionists has been enshrined in another Commonwealth Act since 1904. I refer to section 47 which, again, owes its present form to an amendment of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in 1956 by a government of the same persuasion as that which sits in opposition today and which contains these words which I shall quote. This is preference to unionists which  Senator Carrick  says is the same thing as compulsory unionism. Section 47 reads as follows: 
The Commission' may, by an award or by an order made on the application of an organisation or person bound by an award, direct that preference shall, in relation to such matters, in such manner and sub ject to such conditions as are specified In the award or order, be given to such organisations or members of organisations as are specified in the award or order. 
Subsection (2.) of this section goes even further and states that in some cases the Commission shall' insert a preference clause. That is stronger than 'may'; it makes it mandatory in certain conditions for the Commission to put such a clause in an award. In this debate much has turned on whether this is in fact an attempt to introduce compulsory unionism by the back door. 
In what way have I falsified it? Is that what the honourable senator is suggesting? 
Is  Senator Wright  suggesting that there is no power in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to give preference to unionists in these matters? 
There is no power? 
I do not know what sort of quibble the honourable senator is taking, but I think that my point stands. I want to come now to this question of whether what we have in the case of the present determinations is in fact preference to unionists or is compulsory unionism. It so happens that we have the word of no less an authority than the High Court of Australia on this very question in a recent case that came before the Court early in 1972. It was in the matter of an application for a writ of prohibition against Holmes, a member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and the Federated Clerks Union of Australia, ex parte Altona Petro-chemical Co. Ltd and others. In case  Senator Wright  or the other lawyers in the chamber wish to study the matter - and I commend it to them - let me say that it appears in the March 1972 edition of the 'Australian Law Journal'. The court in that case had to examine certain applications for preference in a wide variety of matters. One of the arguments that was put on behalf of the company which was resisting this application was just the point that the Opposition has attempted to make in this debate, that in other words the requests for preference were so wide in their scope and ambit that they really amounted to an attempt to introduce compulsory unionism by the back door. In the course of his judgment  Mr Justice  Menzies said: 
It does seem to me that, if, what I do regard as claims for preference, were to be granted, the long term consequence would be that clerical employment in the industry would be restricted to unionists. More and more unionists would be engaged and more and more non-unionists would bc dismissed. Nevertheless, I do not regard this likely consequence as turning what arc prima facie claims for preference into claims for monopoly of employment for unionists. It is necessary to examine what is claimed rather than the long term consequences of the granting of what is claimed in order to determine whether the claims are in relation to an industrial matter. 
I commend to honourable senators that they have a look at what sort of preferences were asked for in this case and were held by the 
I know that it is troubling  Senator Jessop.  It is a little difficult for him to follow this, but I ask him to bear with me. I know that he prefers emotional phrases, but I think some people in the Senate would like to know what the truth of the matter is as a matter of law, and what we  aTe  considering here is a matter of law. The High Court, which is the highest tribunal in this land, gave this judgment in regard to claims for preference. Listen to what the claims for preference were. They were in relation to the matter of engagement in any employment covered by the award; in relation to the matters of grading an employee hitherto on the incremental scale under the award; in relation to the matter of determining the times when employees employed under the award should take their annual leave, that is, whether unionists should be able to take their annual leave ahead of nonunionists in the case where there was some sort of conflict as to who should go on leave; and in relation to the matter of retention in employment covered by the award. 
In all of these matters the High Court held that to grant preference to unionists over nonunionists did not amount to compulsory unionism but was preference permitted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Act within the jurisdiction of the Commission and unobjectionable constitutionally. Yet we are told by the Opposition that measures which do not compel anybody to join a union but which give preference in leave to unionists amount to compulsory unionism. Honourable senators opposite are in conflict with common sense and with the High Court. 
And with themselves. Of course, some of the propositions that were advanced by Opposition senators confirmed me in my view that they really have very little understanding not only of the industrial laws of this country but also of what has happened in relation to the introduction of 4 weeks annual leave. For example,  Senator Durack  - who has less excuse than most, since he is a lawyer - made this astonishing statement, which was repeated by  Senator Carrick: 
Here again, we have a clear example of the double standards of the Government and its senior members in relation to this matter. How often have we heard about the Australian Labor Party's belief in Parliament and how matters should always be carried out by Parliament? Its members have said that any substantive changes in the law ought to be carried out by Parliament and not by regulation - not even by ordinance. An ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory was disallowed on a motion moved by  Senator Murphy  some months ago because he said it involved a matter of substantive law which should be changed by Parliament and not by subordinate legislation. Yet not only do we have this major change in the law and the implementation of this major promise of the Prime Minister made during the election campaign carried out by regulation but also we have had many other examples of this kind of thing since 2nd December. 
In other words,  Senator Durack  and  Senator Carrick  are so much on top of this problem that they believe that a determination of the Public Service Arbitrator is a regulation. 
Is it a regulation, senator? Does  Senator Wright  also believe it is a regulation? 
In the mind of  Senator Wright,  a determination of the Public Service Arbitrator and a regulation are indistinguishable. I leave it to the Senate to judge the legal acumen and the accuracy of analysis of members of the Opposition when they are capable of a confusion as blatant as that.  Senator Wright  shakes his head sadly because, of course, he has been caught once more in a piece of asininity, if I may borrow his term. The most serious aspects of what the Opposition is trying to do in this case are that it is attempting to do what it has always told this Senate is a particularly outrageous thing - to interfere with the decision of the umpire. How often have we heard purple patches of indignation from men like  Senator Wright  and the other members of the Opposition whenever unionists went on strike, because they were disputing the umpire's decision. The decision of a commission, of an arbitration tribunal, up to now has been, according to honourable senators opposite, sacrosanct and beyond challenge. But now, because they think that they can score some cheap little political point, all of those noble principles go out the window. if we are talking about double standards, we see on the Opposition benches the firstrate practitioners of the double standard. I suggest that honourable senators should not be fooled for one moment by the emotional protestations, the high sounding principles to which honourable senators opposite have given voice in the course of this debate, but that they should treat this motion in the way it deserves to be treated - throw it out and allow the determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator to stand. The question of compulsory unionism does not arise in this case at all. It is a familiar exercise of the right of industrial tribunals to grant preference, to unionists. It is a right which has been enshrined in our industrial legislation throughout the period when the present Opposition was in office, and which it did not make any attempt to remove from the statute books. The motion is hypocritical, opportunist and unworthy of the support of the Senate. 
This debate is not a debate about the general philosophy of a matrimonial causes Act. If it were I would be at some pains to join issue with  Senator Carrick  who asserted that the purpose of such an Act is to protect the family. I do not agree with that statement. That does not mean that I am not in favour of the family. I think that the purpose of a Matrimonial Causes Act is to make the dissolution of unions which have broken down as painless, as dignified and as financially cheap as it can be. I do not sug gest for one moment that the breakdown of a marriage can ever be anything but a personal tragedy. I do not suggest that it is something about which any of us can feel indifferent. I suggest that the protection of the family is something which is probably beyond the reach of governments. I do not suggest that we can legislate to make people continue to love each other, to be faithful to each other and to be good to their children. Unfortunately, human beings are so built that most of them will fall short of these ideals. In my view, the role of a Matrimonial Causes Act is to see that when a union docs break down there will be as little pain as possible in the process of dissolution. Wc are not here tonight to debate this large issue. What we are here to debate tonight is whether the rules, which were introduced while the Parliament was not sitting, are justified. 
At this point I say that, although 1 have some regard for  Senator Carrick,  each time I hear him speak I feel that he is asserting a monopoly on righteousness. For instance, he said: 'I oppose these rules because I believe in justice'. I do not know whether he was suggesting that we on this side of the chamber believe in injustice. In this place I try as much as I can to avoid cliches but, after having listened to  Senator Carrick  once again, I feel that I have good cause to use one. So I will use one, and it is that justice delayed is justice denied. As  Senator Murphy  has said, the people who have given evidence before the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, including the Chief Judge in Divorce in New South Wales,  Mr Justice  Selby, have said, amongst other things, that the discretion statement is such an abomination and such a blot on our law that it cannot disappear too soon. What has  Senator Murphy  done by introducing these rules? In effect, he has said: 'I cannot sweep out of existence overnight all the old rubbish that we have inherited from the ecclesiastical courts but I will do now what I can do now'.  Senator Carrick  spoke of the need for an amendment of the substantive law on divorce. I notice that  Senator Wright  said: 
Finally, I say that the disallowance in no sense implies opposition to reasonable and well considered reform. 
I accept this proposition. I accept that that statement was a sincere statement of  Senator Wright's  viewpoint. I accept also that  Senator Carrick  does not regard the existing law as sacred and eternal. The distinguished witnesses - judges and people experienced in this field - who have appeared before the Senate Standing Committee have said, almost as one voice, that reform of our matrimonial law is urgent and long overdue. We agree entirely that the real reforms in the matrimonial law must be made by legislation and not by alteration of the rules. That proposition is in line with the general proposition that we have maintained in other spheres of law as well, and that is that it is for the Parliament to consider amendments to the substantive law and that amendments should not be made by regulation. 
But what is being done by (he alteration to these rules? There is no fundamental alteration of the substantive law envisaged or attempted by these alterations to the rules. I do not think I have heard anybody, even on the other side, rise to the defence of this abomination, the discretion statement. I have heard some people suggest that a discretion statement is something which goes into an envelope and is therefore some sort of a secret which becomes locked in the breast of the presiding judge. As anybody who has had any acquaintance with the practise of divorce law in this country knows, the discretion statement is as well kept a secret as what happens in the party rooms of most political parties. It does not take long for almost anybody associated with the cause to find om what is in the discretion statement. This is something which can cause unnecessary tragedy. Somebody who was involved 30 or 40 years ago with a party to the divorce might find himself or herself mentioned in one of these discretion statements, and great tragedy can ensue. That person might be married to somebody else or might have forgotten the episode that gave rise to the mention in the discretion statement. Everybody associated with the law knows that the only word to describe a discretion statement is abomination. Why should we wait a moment longer to get rid of this abomination?  Mr Justice  Selby said that it should be thrown out immediately.  Senator Carrick  suggested that there is no hurry about this. 
What do you say, Senator? 
Let us examine that proposition. The Parliament has been sitting for 4 weeks. Does  Senator Carrick  suggest that divorce reform should have been at the top of the list of the legislation of this Government which undertook such a comprehensive restructuring of our society? Does he suggest that we should have got it through the Parliament by now? But this matter goes further than that.  Senator Carrick  knows, and everybody here knows, that this Senate has constituted a committee which is examining the question of divorce in depth.  Senator Durack, Senator Wright  and  Senator Wheeldon  are on that committee. It is a committee consisting of lawyers except for one member. It currently is examining this question of what should be done about amendments to the Matrimonial Causes Act. Is it suggested by  Senator Carrick  that the democratic and sensible way to amend the divorce law would be for this Government to rush in with amendments before availing itself of the investigations and conclusions of this committee? 
Nothing of the kind. Let me take  Senator Carrick  through the logic of his propositions. He has suggested that there was something wrong with doing what we did because we could have done everything that we should do by amending the Act. I am saying that we should not amend the Act until this Senate has the benefit of the findings of its committee. But that does not mean that we should not sweep the worst abuses out now, and this can be done in the way that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  has done. Do we have to wait? I remind  Senator Carrick  and everybody else here that the committee of which I am speaking already has introduced an interim report into the Senate in which it said only one thing, really: 'Get rid of the discretion statement immediately.' The interim report was presented in September last. The committee regarded the discretion statement as such a horror, such a social anachronism, that it did not wait to conclude its deliberations before saying: 'Get rid of that at least immediately'. 
What does  Senator Carrick  suggest? Does he suggest that we should wait until the deliberations of that committee are over and we come in with a total restructuring of the divorce law before sweeping this absurd discretion statement out of the way? The Senate committee decided that the discretion statement should go and the Attorney-General, quite sensibly, said: 'While we are awaiting a final conclusion from the committee about what the divorce law should be, at least let us get rid of this thing now.' I assume that no  Senator on  the Opposition side, not  Senator Carrick  and not  Senator Wright,  will speak in defence of the continuation of the discretion statement, but if this motion is carried it means that this abomination continues until we get a total amendment of the divorce law, which may be many months away. 
I agree that the deliberations of the committee of which I am speaking are well advanced. I hope that it will come forward with some really substantive suggestions for amendment of the divorce law within the next  3  or  4  months but as honourable senators know, even if this is the case, probably we are still at least  12  months off a new divorce Act. Why in the name of everything that is sensible, modern and rational should the people in this community who happen to be involved in the tragedy of the breakdown of their marriage over the next  12  months still have to be subject to this absurd anachronism of having to file discretion statements? If we can get rid of it by an alteration of the rules, why should we not do it that way? Does anybody seriously suggest that there is an abrogation of the sovereign power of Parliament if these rules are allowed to go through? Is anybody suggesting that any injustice is done to anybody if the discretion statement disappears from our law? But if this disallowance motion is carried, that will be the effect, no matter what one might think of any of the other amendments to the rules. 
All of the criticisms of the other rules strike me as pettifogging lawyers' objections, nitpicking objections, objections that do not go to any fundamental question of human justice, or human rights, or humanity or compassion. Even though I accept the sincerity of what  Senator Wright  said about his reasons for opposing these rules,  1  suspect that the real opposition to them comes from one or other of  2  sources. The first source is that section of the community that really does not want any change; the section of the community that is content with these anachronistic, old-fashioned laws based on fault and the notion that there is some sort of guilt involved in the breakdown of marriage. The second source is the divorce lawyers' lobby. I refer to those who see in these rules a . threat to the nice cosy racket - I am afraid that there is no other word for it - that they have enjoyed for years. When I say that, I do not mean that every lawyer who ever conducted a divorce case is a racketeer. Nevertheless it is unquestionable that a section of the legal profession, especially in my town of Sydney, really has made a racket of this divorce business. If you get into the hands of a lawyer in Sydney who is part of the racket, he takes over your life and your whole existence, and no matter what you may wish about dissolving your union in a dignified, quiet and reasonably inexpensive way you find that your divorce proceedings have taken on a life of their own under the tutelage and guidance of these racketeers. 
I agree, I am afraid, with the AttorneyGeneral, that if he had introduced these changes in the rules but had said nothing about costs, we would have found that the Professor Sackvilles and the academics who do not like the way we have dotted the fs and crossed the fs, who think that a semicolon should be here instead of a dash, would not have been quite so outspoken in their opposition to these rules. I do not say that, I hasten to add, as any sort of criticism of the case made by  Senator Wright.  I believe that the real impetus for the challenge to these rules has come from those whose living is threatened by an attack on a racket that has lasted so long and flourished so luxuriantly, especially in the city of Sydney. 
I do not think that there is anything further I want to add to what has been said in this debate. As I said in my opening remarks, we are not really here to examine the whole philosophy of the Matrimonial Causes Act. I hope and believe that within the next year we will be engaging in that exercise. I hope that the Committee of which I have spoken and of which I am Chairman will come down within the next few months with proposals for making the Matrimonial Causes Act a modern Act - an Act which is consonant with the spirit and philosophy of our age. I hope that I will see during the time, that I am a member of this Parliament a much more humane Matrimonial Causes Act on the statute book. But I can see no reason why we should have to wait for  12  months to sweep away the worst abuses which exist at the moment in our matrimonial laws. T think there was nothing sinister, nothing of a grandstanding nature, nothing reprehensible in any way in what  Senator Murphy  did in introducing these rules. The motivation for introducing these rules was simply: Whilst we are waiting for the long overdue amendments to the substantive Act let us do by Executive action what can be done to remove the worst, the most obvious and the most reprehensible abuses in the Act. That is what these rules do. Their disallowance will result in the perpetuation or at least the extension until the time comes that the Matrimonial Causes Act is amended of the abuses which these rules seek to extirpate. 
My question, which is directed to the Acting 
Leader of the Government in the Senate, arises out of an earlier question asked by  Senator Wright.  Is it not a fact that at the Launceston Conference of the Australian Labor Party to which  Senator Wright  referred and at which there was a tied vote on the question of the abolition or continuance of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation,  Senator Murphy  was among those who voted against the abolition of ASIO? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I ask: What is the Government's attitude  towards the deportation of migrants who have already been naturalised? 
 It is a great pity that  Senator Greenwood  did not wait until after last week-end to compose his speech, or at least he was not adroit enough to make a few amendments to it after the events of last week-end. Otherwise, presumably, he would not have brought himself to say: 
Above all else, he - - referring to the present Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  - has refused to prosecute anybody or any organisation for any criminal activity of any kind. 
I am perfectly aware - and I will keep well within your ruling,  Mr President  - that these charges against these particular people are sub judice and I will make no comment at all upon their guilt or otherwise. But surely, I am permitted to say that  Senator Greenwood's  statement is already out of date, because we, as a government, have done within 4 months what his Government and its predecessors did not get around to doing in 23 years. I would remind  Senator Greenwood,  seeing that we are involved with selectivity, of another little passage given in one of his many obfuscating, dodging answers to questions asked in this place that appears on page 899 of last year's Senate Hansard. He said, when referring to raids that had been carried out by the Commonwealth Police after the Yugoslav Government's aide-memoire - admittedly not at  Senator Greenwood's  instigation, because he did not have, the initiative to order these raids: 
I  may say, however, that in the premises of certain persons which were searched the police found no arms or explosives, which one would suppose would have been found if any allegation of terrorism was to be sustained. 
I hope  Senator Greenwood  will remember that memorable phrase when the charges against these men are ultimately heard. I will refer no more to those charges. 
One of the great burdens of his apologia has been to accuse the Attorney-General of selectivity. Evidently we misrepresented  Senator Greenwood  by not producing all the files of the Attorney-General's Department, all of the files of the Commonwealth Police and all of the files of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. If all those documents had been produced there would not have been room for honourable senators to come into this chamber. I ask honourable senators to ponder this point: What does it matter what we did not produce if we did produce documents which proved the charge against  Senator Greenwood  up to the hilt and which he has chosen to ignore? I will refer again to some of the documents which  Senator Greenwood  has not mentioned today. For instance, do honourable senators recall that  Senator Murphy  gave chapter and verse about the existence in this country of a Croatian extremist organisation known as the United Croats of West Germany? I can find no reference in  Senator Greenwood's  statement today about this organisation. Is it because he has no answer? What does it matter if he says that everything was not produced, if he is not prepared to answer or has no answer to what was produced? 
I have had a look through a lot of these documents. I admit that there are many bland documents among them and that there are many of the sort of statements that one constantly gets from policemen, who have, perhaps, not pushed their inquiries far enough, which say in effect the things which  Senator 
Greenwood quoted today. But how does that get him out of the report of Commissioner Davis, the Chief of the Commonwealth Police, dated 30th May 1972, which was long before he was giving these answers setting out chapter and verse the numbers, the meeting places and the activities of the United Croats of West Germany. Why have we not heard from  Senator Greenwood  about this organisation? Why have we not heard from him about the Department of Immigration brochure? Why did  Senator Greenwood  make no mention of this brochure put out by the Department of Immigration which also set out information, chapter and verse, about the United Croats of West Germany? And what about the Marie documents which were found in this raid which showed clearly that Marie was dealing with an organisation and was linked with terrorism in Yugoslavia, as did documents seized from Srecko Rover? I say again: What does it matter at all if other documents were excluded so long as documents were included which squarely fitted  Senator Greenwood  with knowledge of the existence of terrorist organisations and which he has not chosen to mention today? Where does his defence stand in the light of that? 
We have heard 30 pages of words. We have heard plenty of protestations about his meeting with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and with, the Commonwealth Police. We have heard him make pious denunciations in the hope that the problem would go away. But what did  Senator Greenwood  do about this irrefutable evidence of the existence df these terrorist organisations? He told us exactly nothing. In his usual style he took upon himself a very selfrighteous stance today. The many accusations of misrepresentation he made against  Senator Murphy- 
1 will read the honourable senator's quotation in a moment; everything I say will be documented. For example,  Senator Greenwood,  when referring to one document, mentioned, the fact that a certain document had only come into existence - I refer to the police report - on 23rd November; and therefore he could not be imputed with knowledge of it as he had relinquished office prior to then. To use his exact words. I refer to page 10 of his statement. The honourable senators on my right who are interjecting can check that I quote the paragraph in full. I refer to the second last paragraph on page 10. I ask all honourable senators alongside me to follow closely what I read. I am quoting from  Senator Greenwood's  statement. He said: 
First he refers extensively - 
Let us test the self-righteousness and the honesty of  Senator Greenwood  against what  Senator Murphy  actually said. If honourable senators really want to know they should turn to page 10 of  Senator Murphy's  statement which refers to this document. After quoting from that document  Senator Murphy  said: 
The police report from which I have quoted is dated 23rd November 1972. 
He said nothing about this document being in  Senator Greenwood's  possession. In fact he carefully showed that he was not relying on this for what he alleged against  Senator Greenwood.  He went on to say: 
However, a preliminary report on documents seized from Maric, Rover and others was made by the Acting Commissioner of Commonwealth police to the Attorney-General's Department on 12th September 1972 and the Attorney-General would undoubtedly have seen this report Though all the seized documents had not been translated at this stage, there were references to maps, to the receipt for the transmission of money to Vegar and to handwritten items relating to the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood and the organisational infrastructure of a troika group. In short, on or soon after 12th September 1972, the then Attorney-General was in possession of evidence that the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood had been revived, was functioning actively, and was associated with the June incursion into Yugoslavia which had been the subject of complaint in the Yugoslav Government's aide-memoire of 16th August 1972. Yet on 19th September 1972 he returned tohis denials of the existence of any Croatian terrorist organisation in Australia and never resiled from that standpoint throughout the life of the Parliament. 
I ask: Who is it who is fooling the Senate today? 
Nothing will convince  Senator Rae.  I am certainly not trying to convince him. We have an example here of  Senator Greenwood  standing up to defend himself and misrepresenting, in a gross way, the allegation which  Senator Murphy  made against him and which I submit stands up in full- even after  Senator Greenwood's  answer. 
Another curious example of the double, standards in which  Senator Greenwood  specialises and also in which  Senator Little  specialises is in the references to the suspected agent provocateur of the Yugoslav Government. I recall  Senator Little  the other day quoting from one of the documents, which evidently he had read, a long statement suggesting that the Yugoslav secret police had been responsible for the murder of many Croatians in Europe, and in Australia. 
Thank you, senator. I see that he remembers it. Let us see whether he remembers all of it. The curious thing about all these allegations of the actions of UBDA - the Yugoslav secret police - or of other Yugoslav agencies in the documents which we tabled is that they are all the grossest hearsay. There is not one item of the sort of evidence which  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Little  insist on for convicting Croatian terrorists in any of these allegations against the Yugoslav authorites. But evidently they are prepared to accept hearsay as hard evidence when it supports allegations that they want to make against people whom they do not like. But in our case, we are asked on every allegation that we make for evidence that will stand up in a court of law. 
This is where I come to the grossest falsification in what  Senator Greenwood  said for all of last year and what he has said today. I challenge honourable senators to go through the questions and answers that appear in the Hansards of last year. They do not really need to look at anything more than the Hansard of 19th September last when  Senator Greenwood  was asked and answered about half a dozen questions. None of the questions was: 'Have you any evidence on which to base a prosecution?' None of his answers was: 'We have no evidence on which to base a prosecution'.  Senator Greenwood  was being asked in layman's language whether the inquiries by police forces in this country had established a reasonable belief that there were in this country organisations that were engaged in terrorism. He was never asked whether he had evidence for a prosecution. If he was limiting his reply to the proposition that 'We do not have evidence on which to base a prosecution', as he was a lawyer talking mostly to laymen why did he not put it in that language? But he never put it in that language. I claim, as we claimed all the way through last year, that what  Senator Greenwood  was getting at really was to say that as far as he knew, on an investigation of all the documents, it was just not believable that there were Croatian terrorist organisations in this country. 

 Senator Murphy's statement proved beyond doubt that there was not only one but also more than one, and  Senator Greenwood,  despite the mass of words with which he has deluged us today, has made no answer to the principal charges laid against him. He had a lot of fun about not finding any terrorist training camps in the You Yangs. I wonder whether  Senator Greenwood  ever took the trouble to witness a film that was made by the Croatian organisations and ultimately seized by the Commonwealth police about the training camp at Wodonga. I happen to have seen that film recently. I saw it at the invitation of the Commonwealth Police here in Canberra a couple of weeks ago. I defy any honourable senator, any rational person who witnesses this film to go away believing that there were no training camps for Croatian terrorists in this country. There were hundreds of men including middle-aged fat men, whom one would not see going for a little training run just for the good of their health. One would never see this sort of men out training. They had on Ustasha shirts. 
They were a funny sort of footballers. They were draped over Citizen Military Forces tanks and being lectured by Australian officers. The question that arose in my mind as I witnessed that film was not only why they went there but also why they bothered to make the film. This film had an introduction and an acknowledgment by a Croatian organisation. I forget which one it was but it was mentioned by  Senator Murphy  in his statement. Obviously this film was made for propaganda purposes to show throughout Australia and overseas to some of their zealots and to show that they were co-operating with Australian authorities in their training. By the way, I am not suggesting that the CMF was a willing party to any of that deception. 
I invite  Senator Little  to see the film. I know that he would not be convinced. What I said was that I believe that any rational man would be convinced by this film. But did  Senator Greenwood  ever bother to see this film? He has talked about selectivity. He has talked about things being picked out which only go against him. He has made no mention of this. Perhaps the great film buff  Senator Rae  has seen it and we will be favoured with his lucubrations in a few moments. 
1963? 
What is the proposition? Is it that this did not happen or that it did happen a long while ago so we do not have to worry about it? Also I am interested to see that  Senator Greenwood  - insofar as he adverted to a few specific charges today - adverted to the charge that he had been an active protector. This chargewas based on the fact that he had given advice against the deportation of Marincic. He adopted the pose of a great civil libertarian. This is a very odd pose for him and one which is very unfamiliar to us in this Senate. He stated: 
But he - 
That is, Marincic -  had committed no act of violence in Australia and, in my opinion, to deport a person to such a country where he will be persecuted for his political opposition to the government of that country is not my, concept of how an Australian Government should act - or of how the Australian people would expect it to act. 
Why did he not answer all that  Senator Murphy  said about him in relation to Marincic? Why did he not answer the charge that there is a clear and recent High Court case which establishes the fact that immigration authorities in Australia do not have to deport a man to the country of his origin. 

 - Senator Withers has not caught up with the law. I shall give him a reference if he wants it. In fact, it was given the other night but I think that was after  Senator Withers  had done his  10-minute  stint in the chamber. This is probably news to him today. In any event, the case is reported and it establishes that  Senator Greenwood's  advice to the Department of Immigration was given on a false basis. Yet he chooses to repeat it today. In other words, he is the one who is being selective. He has produced documents of a bland nature and he chooses to ignore damaging documents and the arguments which were put in  Senator Murphy's  statement to which he has no answer. Nor has he seen fit to mention the fact that the charge which has come from our side of the chamber of the existence of Croatian extremist organisations in this country is not a fantasy of the Australian Labor Party. As  Senator Murphy  showed, it is something which was constantly adverted to by the more responsible members of the previous Government, including  Sir Garfield  Barwick who suggested that a prosecution might be considered under section 30a of the Crimes Act to which  Senator Greenwood  has referred. In case the lawyers opposite do not know what section 30a of the Crimes Act provides, it will be found that its heading refers to illegal organisations. If  Sir Garfield  Barwick, as long ago as 1964, was suggesting- 
Yes, it was 1964. If as long ago as 1964  Sir Garfield  Barwick and if in 1968, to bring it more up to date,  Mr McMahon  were suggesting action under the Grimes Act, it means that at least they were convinced, without having access to the information that was available to  Senator Greenwood,  of the existence of Croatian extremist organisations in this country.  Senator Greenwood  was the only one who could not see the evidence or, if he did see it, refused to acknowledge it. Perhaps he went looking only for documents which supported the continuation of inactivity. In any event, they are the only documents he has chosen to produce. 
Finally, let me refer very briefly to the red herrings that have been drawn across this trail in an attempt to obscure the main issue. The main issue is whether there is Croatian extremism in this country; whether previous governments have done anything to suppress it; and whether this Government is stepping into the vacuum and ensuring that bombs do not continue to go off in our streets. I think the most absurd red herring of all that I have seen concerns the comments of  Mr Askin  and his threat that in future he would give no cooperation to the Commonwealth law enforcement authorities. What is the proposition? Is it that before the police raid suspected terrorists they should send them some notification of their intention to call or that, like a linesman in the employ of the PostmasterGeneral's Department who has called to fix a person's telephone, the police should leave a card saying: 'We called today and will be back another day'? Is it suggested that when the police do call on the suspected terrorists they should search only in cupboards but should not look in ceilings or other places for concealed weapons? Is this the sort of proposition which will be put forward by the other lawyers? I notice that  Senator Rae  has his pen poised. Obviously he is getting ready to stand and defend the indefensible. I hope we are not to hear any more, nonsense. 1 feel confident that the ordinary people of Australia do not split hairs in the manner in which honourable senators opposite have been doing. I am sure that the people of Australia do not expect the police to act in this way. 
'Police state', says  Senator Webster.  I am sure that the ordinary people do not expect the police to act in this kid glove way in attempting to stamp out this novel and very threatening feature of Australian life. I suggest,  Mr Deputy President,  that the exercise that we have had from  Senator Greenwood  today leaves him just where he was after he had been exposed by  Senator Murphy  last week. If this is the best he has to offer in his defence, the charges that were made against him stand - that he was soft on terrorism, that he was irresponsible, and that he was indifferent to the existence of this menace in our midst. 
We have. Does the honourable senator not read the newspapers? 
I feel that I carry a particularly heavy onus in rising to defend the conduct of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  after listening, to the heart-rending protestations of the lillywhites of Box Hill North. As far as I could detect a theme in  Senator McManus's  speech, I think it was that horrible things happen in the world and that they are to be deplored when they happen to friends. Let us take this theme which has emerged not only from  Senator McManus  but also from  Senator Little  and  Senator Greenwood,  although in a rather more oblique- 
I ask the honourable senator to listen to me. I know it is hard for him to follow. 
Are we having a chat or are we obeying the rules of the Senate? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order!  Senator James  McOlelland, 1 ask you to address the Chair. 
I must confess that I rise tonight with some feeling of weariness, verging on boredom, to discuss this subject. After all, the issues in this matter have been hashed and rehashed and digested and regurgitated and illuminated and obscured and generally kicked about. I think that the general population, the newspapers and the Parliament are thoroughly bored with this issue because everything that has been said about it and everything that could be said about it has been said. Unfortunately tonight it has been raised again by the Opposition, and just as a matter of parliamentary procedure we have to deal with it. First of all I shall deal with what was said by  Senator McManus. 
I suppose they would have had 'Playboy' to read while they were locked up. They could have got it from the honourable senator's newsagency. They would not have to be as bored as all that. Because it gets us a little off the beaten track I shall refer to this UDBA theme which has been raised by  Senator McManus  and which I know is dear to  Senator Little's  heart. The attempt that they had made - it was dome in a slightly more sophisticated way by  Senator Greenwood  - in reply to the irrefutable case which we have raised was to suggest that these violent outbreaks in the Yugoslav community in Australia are really the actions of agents provocateur. 
1 have read document Al 3. I have read all the documents.  Senator Little  has just exposed his indomitable ignorance and prejudice in suggesting that documents which he has read prove- 
Is that as high as the honourable senator puts it - that the documents suggest. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I ask  Senator Little  to cease interjecting. 
I think I would do better to ignore the cachinnations on my right. The proposition which has been raised as a smokescreen to obscure the irrefutable evidence which we have produced is that these terrorist acts which undeniably exist in the Croatian- Yugoslav community in Australia are really the actions of agents provocateur of the Yugoslav Government. As  Senator Little  admitted just a moment ago - and as can be seen from a reading of what  Senator Greenwood  said in his alleged reply to  Senator Murphy's  accusations - all of this is the merest hearsay. It is suggested but never proved that assassinations, liquidations, are carried out by the Yugoslav secret police. But for  Senator Little, Senator Greenwood  and every honourable senator on that side of the chamber the merest suggestion of ill-doing by their enemies is conclusive evidence. But when we make allegations they demand that we produce evidence which would stand up in a court of law. This is merely evidence of their double standards. They believe what they choose to believe and they do not want to be disturbed by the facts. 
I suppose if I were to start talking about the evidence on which people have been arrested  Senator Little  would stand up and take the point of order that I was discussing something which was sub judice. I remember a discussion which took place in this chamber last year. We were talking about the action being taken against the draft resister Barry Johnston. The burden of the adverse comment which we were making from our side of the chamber against the then AttorneyGeneral was that he was imputing guilt to a man who had merely been charged and against whom none of these charges had yet been proved. But I gather that  Senator Little  wants me to embark on a trial of the people who were arrested the week-end before last. I will resist that temptation because, among other reasons, I would be out of order. But if  Senator Little  is suggesting that there is no evidence of action being taken by this Government, as against the inaction of the last Government, then I suggest that he is on his-  1 
You cannot have it both ways. On the one hand they ask: *Why do you not charge somebody? Why do you not do something about the allegations you raise?' On the other hand they complain that we raid people. How are we to please these stand-pat people who are ready to believe that there is a conspiracy by communist Yugoslav governments but who say that anything we allege against Croat terrorists come from our imagination? How are we to please people who, on the one hand, say that we are doing nothing and who, on the other hand, complain when raids happen? I suggest that we will have to rely on the good sense of the Australian people who believe - I think for good reasons - that there have been outrages in this country, that bombs have gone off on the streets, that there is a running vendetta between Croat terrorists and the Yugoslav Government and who applaud the fact that a government is at least in office which is prepared to do something about the situation. As I have said, there is something about this debate tonight which I find absolutely unbelievable. After everything which has happened in this Parliament over the last 3 weeks this debate which is being conducted tonight strikes me as an exercise in total futility. 
Let us examine the wording of the motion moved by  Senator Withers,  who, I see, is exceptionally favouring us by remaining in the chamber while the debate is being conducted.  Senator Withers  moved: 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, a board of inquiry consisting of 3 High  Court or  Supreme Court Justices should be established by the Government to inquire into and report upon . . . 
Certain serious problems are said to be confronting this country at the moment. We have heard from the responsible Opposition throughout this week that, among other things, there are problems such as inflation that we should be discussing in this chamber, but the Opposition has taken time off from doing so to discuss a proposition as meaningless as this - that in the opinion of the Senate a board of inquiry consisting of 3 High Court or Supreme Court justices should be established by the Government to inquire into and report upon certain things. 
What would happen if this motion were carried? The word would go out to the world - to  Mr Whitlam  and to every member of this Parliament - that the opinion of the Senate was that these things should be inquired into. Noble as that may be, what would issue from it?  Mr Whitlam  has already made it clear that there will be no inquiry. The Opposition in this place must know that even if this motion were carried there would not be an inquiry. This is merely a pious expression of opinion by people who have taken a thrashing on the facts that an inquiry should be held. If an inquiry were in fact set up - if this country decided that it could afford to waste the time of 3 High Court judges for 3 months, 6 months or 12 months - into what would those learned gentlemen be inquiring? The first question that they are asked to inquire into is whether terrorist organisations exist in Australia. I suggest that is something which has been established beyond peradventure to the satisfaction of the Parliament, as is illustrated by a motion that was carried in the House of Representatives and, I suspect, by the way, to the satisfaction of most of the gentlemen on the other side of the chamber. 
It would never be established to the satisfaction of  Senator Little.  If  Senator Little  were to reexamine the documents which he claims to have examined he would find that it has been established to the satisfaction of ASIO - an organisation whose reputation and functioning honourable senators on the other side of the. chamber are most anxious to defend and most tender to protect from what they call the depradations of the Attorney-General - that such terrorist organisations exist. 
We have been asked by  Senator Little  and other honourable senators on the Opposition side of the chamber to waste the time of 3 High Court judges for an unlimited period by asking them to establish whether something that ASIO is totally satisfield exists does in fact exist. The Commonwealth Police are completely satisfied that these terrorist organisations exist.  Senator Little,  who will rely on nothing but the documents, will know that documents exist which establish this to the total satisfaction of the Commonwealth Police. But not only that. The Department of Immigration, which has a special reports branch and which is interested in the question of whether there are terrorist organisations in Australia, is also totally satisfied that such organisations exist. But, more than that,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, who was Minister for External Affairs and also Attorney-General, curiously, if one looks at the records, wrote letters to himself with one hat to the man in the other hat, that is, as Minister for External Affairs he wrote letters to  Sir Garfield  Barwick as Attorney-General telling  Sir Garfield  Barwick as Attorney-General that he should be worried about what the Minister for External Affairs had discovered as to the danger of terrorist organisations. 
You are wrong, senator. I invite you to examine the documents. You will find that that is what happened in early 1964. It is funny, but it is more than that.  Senator Wright  made one of the most sensible contributions in the debate last year. I appreciate that he is now interjecting out of loyalty to his side and trying to make the most of it. During the debate in September and October of last year the most sensible intervention was made by  Senator Wright.  He admitted that any government of this country has nothing to gain by the promotion or condonation of terrorist activities in this country directed to the breaking up of the state of Yugoslavia. 
It is no mystery that Tito is in his 80s. The Croatian separatist organisations throughout the world figure that it is now or never. Tito must be expected to die within the next few years. They hope that that will be the time to break up this rather artificial ethnic union of Yugoslavia.  Senator Wright  showed a much more sophisticated recognition of the interests of this country when he intervened in the debate last year. Obviously he had been advised by officers of the Department of Foreign Affars who know the realities of life.  Senator Wright  said that we and the so-called free world had nothing to gain by the fragmentation of Yugoslavia because this would mean merely another power cockpit in the world, something like that which exists in the Middle East. As any student of politics knows, the so-called independent republics of Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Montenegro - 
That is right. They would come under increasing pressure to be dominated by one of the power groups in the world; more probably than not by the Soviet Union. I am astonished that a man like my friend  Senator McManus,  who is not interested in the expansion of Soviet power in the world, should be indifferent or somehow blind to the implications of a possible victory of the people to whom he feels-- 
There has not been an independent Croatia since 982 A.D. The suggestion is that we have some romantic attachment to these people who want to go back to olden times. It is something like our suggesting that we should raise the flag against William the Conqueror because of what happened in 1066. This is a totally romantic, unreal and almost unbelieveably reactionary movement. I do not mind if the Croatians in Australia have folk dances and play at boy scouts, but when it becomes something that involves armed incursions into Yugoslavia-- 
And oaths. 
Bombs are used against people who will not agree with them and standover tactics are employed against people who will not contribute to their cause. It is fantastic and unreal, but also dangerous. Further, it is from the most mundane and old-fashioned point of view contrary to the interests of this country. That is what  Sir Garfield  Barwick was getting at.  Sir Garfield  Barwick, in his capacity as Foreign Minister, knew that it was not in the interests of Australia to pick this fight with a friendly country and that it was not in the interests of Australia to allow here any sort of groups which would contribute to the fragmentation of the State of Yugoslavia. That is why he wrote as Foreign Minister to himself as Attorney-General saying in effect; 'We should not condone this; we should do something about suppresing it'. Of course, this is the thread that runs through the documents relating to events since the first incursion in  1963,  up through the years to the last incursion last year, and to the projected one this year. 
The Department of Foreign Affairs has been quite clear sighted that this was something which should not be tolerated. Unfortunately  Sir Garfield  Barwick, in addressing himself as Attorney-General, did not achieve any results in the suppression of Croatian terrorism, but at least he was alert to the problem. Down through the years successive Attorneys-General have refused to listen to the warnings that they got from the AttorneyGeneral's Department, from ASIO and from the Commonwealth Police. The purport of what I am saying on this leg of the argument is that it almost passes comprehension that sensible people in this community should have any doubts whatsoever about the existence of Croatian terrorist organisations in this country. I submit that  Senator Murphy's  statement of a couple of weeks ago, in which he documented and produced a great heap of documents that were tabled in the Senate, indicates the existence of Croatian organisa tions. The indifference of previous governments and the determination of this Government to do something about it remains totally unrefuted. 
After having a week to prepare his defence  Senator Greenwood  said in effect: 'There are other documents to which  Senator Murphy  did not refer which showed that I was concerned about this problem'. But he failed completely to answer the case that was put against him. Certainly there were other documents which showed that he toyed with the problem and that he talked about the problem. He knew that the problem existed, but he was conditioned to thinking - I say this without any harshness towards  Senator Greenwood  but I believe it is the explanation of his attitude - along sympathetic lines, a sympathy which he just cannot get over, towards people who are anti-communist. The Croatian organisations here are anti-communist, and  Senator Greenwood  as well as other honourable senators opposite, including  Senator Hannan  whom-- 
I am not attacking  Senator Hannan.  I believe that he is totally sincere in his attitude towards this problem, but I am suggesting that the mote in the eyes of honourable senators opposite is this: These Croatians come here as fugitives from a communist country and therefore are their natural allies. Therefore anything that they do in the way of toying with gelignite, fuses or something of that nature is seen as a peccadillo. Actions which would be crimes if done by supporters of a left wing cause are to honourable senators opposite little boys' games when they are played by people for whom they have a natural political sympathy. So I am not suggesting that  Senator Greenwood, Senator Hannan  or the other defenders of the rights of the Croatians in this country who advocate a separate Croatian state are people who love violence - not for one moment. I am suggesting that they have a natural tolerance towards people with whose cause they sympathise and this leads them into the blindness in which they condone the dangerous, anti-social, fundamentally criminal activities which these people consider to be permissible in the furtherance of the cause in which they blindly, romantically and quite pointlessly believe. 
We are not prepared to extend this tolerance towards these people. We do not find it horrifying that these people might have this romantic belief in an independent Croatia but we say: You are not going to be allowed, under this Government, to pursue these romantic dreams with gelignite and rifles at the expense of your fellow countrymen, most of whom are not interested in these romantic dreams, and especially to the danger of Australian citizens who may happen to be walking around when one of your bombs goes off. This is all that  Senator Murphy  was directing his attention to. 
I always like to hear  Senator Gair's  interjections. May I have that again? 
That is a very interesting comment from  Senator Gair.  I take it that what he means is that we should not be concerned about Croatian terrorists because there are other terrorists in Australia. Is that what he means? 
I ask honourable senators to ponder the wisdom of  Senator Gair.  He does not say that what I am saying is not true. He says that he has suspicions that terrorist activities are being conducted by other people in the community. If there are, I do not approve of them either.  His  party especially referred to some terroristic activities that were perpetrated on members of the Federated Ship Painters and Dockers Union of Australia in Victoria, and I take it that that is what he is referring to now. I do not approve of those actions; I condemn those actions. I believe that the police should be interested in suppressing them, but it is an appalling juvenile argument against what I am saying to suggest that these things happen somewhere else and that means we do not have to worry about terrorism when it is performed by people of whom  Senator Gair  approves. 
-Will you tell me, Senator? Who assaulted Ducker? 
 I do not think I need to worry a great deal. I think that honourable senators are sufficiently logical to understand that the fact that acts which are reprehensible occur outside the sphere of Croatian terrorism has nothing to do with the argument as to whether Croatian terrorism exists. What I am suggesting is that this has been proved beyond doubt, beyond argument, and so the first section of the motion - the suggestion that we should waste the time of 3 High Court judges to decide whether terrorists organisations exist in Australia - is something which can be laughed out of Court. The other aspect of the first part of this argument is as to the number of Croatian terrorists. I would be interested to know how many of them there are. But does it really matter? Does it matter that they are a small minority of all the Croatians in this country? We acknowledge that. We are not suggesting, as it is attempted to be suggested against us, that all of the Croatians or most of them or anybody but a tiny minority of the Croatians in this country are terrorists. 
I have known a lot of Croatians. I acted for a lot of Croatians when I was practising law. I believe most of them have turned their backs on this romantic violence that has unfortunately plagued their people in the past. I believe that most of them want to integrate into the Australian community and forget all about the proposition of an independent Croatia. Unfortunately a few of the adventurers and criminals in their midst make them their prime victims. They stand over them for money; they bomb their premises; they try to intimidate them into joining their organisations. The question of the size of these organisations is not anything about which we need concern ourselves. We accept, and the overwhelming evidence supports the proposition, that there are not many of them. But does that matter? A few of them can destroy a great number of lives and cause a great amount of misery, and to have an inquiry by 3 High Court judges who would spend a year or 18 months to find out whether there are 200 or 2,000 of them is a luxury that this country cannot afford. 
The next thing that these 3 High Court judges are asked to inquire into is the objectives of these terrorists.  Senator Little,  who I see has had enough, claims to have read the documents. If honourable gentlemen on the other side have read the documents they will have been abundantly informed of the objectives of these organisations. Their objectives are to achieve an independent Croatia by any means whatsoever including bombing, terror, intimidation, standing over their countrymen, training people to infiltrate and wrecking the relations of Australia with a friendly country. These are the objectives. We do not need High Court judges to tell us about them. They are to be found in the documents tabled in this House by  Senator Murphy.  As to their methods, we have to do no more than look at the list, which was tabled by  Senator Greenwood  in his own defence, of the unsolved crimes of violence committed in this country by these extremists. 
I could go on analysing this motion in detail but, as I said at the outset, I find this topic already played out and boring. Everything that has to be said about it has already been said. I should like finally to advert to only one thing, that is, the red herring which has been drawn across this trail as to why  Senator Murphy  - the word that is usually used is 'raided' - the offices of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in Canberra and in Melbourne. I have taken a rough straw poll among the ordinary people of this community, the people who judge what happens here in Canberra by standards of common sense, and I have found that mostly their attitude is that if  Senator Murphy  in the context in which he visited ASIO in Canberra and in' Melbourne had a suspicion, even if it was unjustified, that he was not getting all the information to which he was entitled, with an impending visit of a dignatory like the Yugoslav Prime Minister around the corner, he was entitled to take the most drastic methods to find out whether he was getting the information. I have found that the ordinary man is not concerned with the niceties.  Senator Murphy's  action was highly unorthodox; it was highly unusual. 
But what of this sacred cow ASIO? By the way, the basis of the indignation of the Opposition over what  Senator Murphy  did, is that somehow or other ASIO is a sovereign power within a sovereign power. You do not question ASIO; you do not have a good look at what it is doing; you do not exercise the authority of the Government over ASIO, ASIO is a power unto itself. I understand from what  Senator Greenwood  and other speakers on the other side of the House have said, that even at this advanced stage of the debate they still believe this to be the case, that ASIO, somehow or other, is a power unto itself, not answerable to the Prime Minister, not answerable to the AttorneyGeneral. I invite honourable senators opposite who still entertain this illusion to examine the document that was tendered by  Senator Murphy  on 10th April setting out the relationship between the Director-General of ASIO and this Government. 

 Senator Little, that great student of the documents who has not chosen to stay with us, has presumably seen this document which contains phrases like this: 
The Director-General may not, except with the consent of the Attorney-General, hold any other paid office or, whether for remuneration or otherwise, engage in the private practice of, or be employed in, any profession, occupation or trade. . . . 
If after investigation and report by the Public Service Board, the Attorney-General is satisfied that the Director-General is unfit on the ground of physical or mental incapacity to continue to discharge the duties of his office efficiently..... 
If, after inquiry, the Attorney-General finds that the Director-General was guilty of misconduct and that the misconduct was such that it warrants the dismissal of the Director-General, the appointment of the Director-General may be terminated by the Governor-General. 
Later on there is the following definition of misconduct:   the word 'misconduct' in this paragraph includes any failure on the part of the Director-General to comply with the provisions of the Act or any of the terms and conditions set out in this Determination or any lawful direction given by the Attorney-General regarding the Organisation. 
There is another paragraph which states that the Attorney-General is entitled under certain circumstances to reprimand the DirectorGeneral. Generally that is the thread running throughout the terms and conditions of  the  appointment of the Director-General. 
A previous  government, but not  a  Labor government. In 1965 I think this document  was  drawn up and it makes it quite clear. One would expect nothing else- 
Thank  you,  Senator. One  would  expect nothing else than  that the  head of this  important  Organisation is in every way responsible to the  elected government of this country. So if the Attorney-General of this Government, on the eve of the visit of a high dignitary in the Yugoslav Government and in the light of a long list of outrages by Croatian extremists in this country chose, even on an unsupported suspicion, for more abundant precaution to decide that he would have a look at whether ASIO was doing its job, he was acting lawfully. He was acting responsibly. He was doing no less than what the people of this country are allowed and expected to anticipate from a responsible Attorney-General. If the Attorney-General had done anything less than what he did this would be something to complain of. I can imagine him being censured if a bomb had gone off and  Mr Bijedic's  life had been imperilled or the life of the Prime Minister of this country had been imperilled. Do not forget that when the Ustasha assassin struck down King Alexander in Marseilles in 1934, King Alexander was not the only victim. The French Foreign Secretary,  Mr Barthou,  also was a victim. Even if honourable senators on the other side are indifferent to the fate of a distinguished visitor to this country I assume they would not be indifferent to the fate of one of our own leaders such as  Mr Whitlam  or  Senator Murphy.  I suggest that honourable senators opposite, and I suggest this with due respect to them, would be really concerned to think that political assassination could reach out and strike down one of our own political leaders. I seriously suggest to honourable senators opposite who have been so censorious and, I think, self-righteous and very intolerant of a very tolerant AttorneyGeneral - a man who as leader of the Opposition in the Senate adopted a highly responsible and impersonal attitude towards his task and a man who since he has been in the office of Attorney-General has acted with great responsibility - that they should really examine their consciences and put themselves in his position in the week before  Mr Bijedic  was due to arrive in this country. 
With due respect to  Senator Wright,  I say that the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia was due to arrive in this country in two or three days. At the end of a busy day in the Senate the Attorney-General turned to the problem of whether the security for the impending visit of this man was good enough. Why is it so extraordinary that he chose 12 o'clock at night to go to the office of this important security organisation? Is it suggested seriously that our super spy force goes to bed at 12 o'clock at night and that this was an unseemly hour for the first law officer of the Commonwealth-- 
I suggest that it is not at all unusual. Anybody who observes the way in which this Government is functioning will know that at 12 o'clock any night in the week the Ministers of this Government are conducting their business, having interviews and receiving deputations. This is a commonplace of the way this Government conducts its affairs. At the end of the day, at 11.30 p.m., a responsible Attorney-General adverts to the question of whether, in a couple of days time, a visiting dignitary will have enough protection. So he rings the local headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and makes an appointment, without objection from it, to go and check up on this elementary matter which goes to the very heart of his duties. He is received there courteously. There is no question of breaking in. Documents are shown to him. He reads documents. Without regurgitating the whole sorry mess, I merely say that he found one which I suggest any responsible Minister would have found disturbing and, on the strength of it, decided that he had to take immediate further action. 
We know of the honourable senator's well known predilection for being at the centre of the stage. I am suggesting that  Senator Murphy  had a much more serious motivation than that. He was charged, as a Minister of State, with securing the safety of a visiting dignitary who was invited to this country by a previous government. I suggest that it is a sorry reflection on the state of political responsibility in this country that he should be reproached for having regarded 12 o'clock at night as not being too late, after a busy day in the Senate, to make further inquiries as to whether security precautions had been taken. He went there. On the strength of the document he saw, he was not satisfied and he decided he had to do something further. Even if it were suggested - I know that it is - that he made a mistake of judgment then in taking a bunch of Commonwealth police to the ASIO headquarters in Melbourne, taking the position at its harshest against the Attorney-General, even if honourable senators opposite say that this was a mistake of judgment and that it was something he should not have done, surely they must conclude-- 
It is something that honourable senators opposite have said. I do not for one moment agree with it. Cannot the honourable senator hear and understand? I am saying that, putting the case against the Attorney-General at its worst, even accepting - I state that I do not for one moment, in order that  Senator Little  will understand me - the proposition that he made a mistake of judgment, is it a mistake of judgment that allegedly patriotic senators should applaud? Was it a mistake on the right side - on the side of more abundant precaution? Was it a mistake that he was entitled to make as a man who was concerned to do his job properly? I do not accept that it was a mistake. I think it is something that any responsible Attorney-General would have done. But even if it were a mistake it is something which I suggest that the people who are interested in security should regard with tolerance and with charity. I think the worst case that can be made against the Attorney-General is that he was over-zealous in doing his job in maintaining the security of a man whom a previous government had invited to this country. 
I do not think at this stage I should even dignify  Senator Little's  absurd interjection with a reply. I suggest that on reflection the members of this Senate should hang their heads in shame for having censured a responsible, dedicated, hard working Attorney-General for doing what he considered was necessary in the interests of the security of a visiting dignitary and in the interests of our relations with a friendly nation. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer to an earlier question that was directed to him by, I think,  Senator Gietzelt  concerning information which he gave on French television about the nuclear tests. I ask: Is it a fact that the telecast of a pre-recorded interview on the second Government controlled television channel in Paris was different from the actual pre-recording? Is it a fact that one question and answer were omitted from the telecast seen by French viewers? If so, what was omitted? 
I seek leave to make a statement in my capacity as Chairman of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs concerning the reference by the Senate to that Committee of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1973. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
It will be recalled that on the last sitting day of the Senate, 12th April, on the motion of  Senator Rae  it was resolved: 
That at the end of the motion for the second reading be added the words 'but in the opinion of the Senate this Bill should be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affair's for consideration and report on 1st May 1973'. 
That is today. As  Chairman  of that Committee, following the carrying of that motion, I called a meeting of the Committee on the following day, Friday, 13th April. Certain discussions were held by the Committee about its jurisdiction to consider the matter referred to it. On the motion of  Senator Wright,  it was resolved to call certain officers of the Department of Social Security before the Committee to elucidate certain matters in the Bill which  Senator Wright  considered raised certain legal problems. The first day on which it could be arranged for the Committee to receive the evidence of these officers was yesterday. Certain members of the Committee could not fit it into their schedules to meet until yesterday. In due course, the officers attended and were questioned. The Committee has now instructed me to inform the Senate that it is not possible to bring in the report which it was charged to bring in today because it is not possible to report adequately without quoting from or annexing the Hansard report of yesterday's proceedings. This Hansard report will not be available until later this week. An opportunity then has to be provided for the officers concerned to correct their evidence and for the secretary of the Committee and myself to prepare a draft report which will then be considered by the Committee on the earliest possible occasion, which is Tuesday of next week. I therefore move: 
That the time for presenting the report from the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1973 be extended to Thursday, 10th May 1973. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I refer to a question asked a little earlier today by  Senator Gair  concerning the alleged law breaking by pro-abortion demonstrators on the lawns opposite Parliament House. I ask the Minister: If indeed these women are breaking the law, are they not merely obeying advice recently given by a prominent prelate that on the matter of abortion it is permissible for people to disobey the law if their conscience so directs them? 
Pursuant to the order of the Senate, I present the report from the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1973. 
Motion (by  Senator Murphy)  agreed to: 
That consideration of the Bill in Committeeof the Whole be an order of the day, for the next day of sitting. 
 It seems that everybody on the other side of the chamber is in favour of the principle of one vote one value, provided that we do not have it. Each one of them spoke up in defence of the. principle and then almost in the same breath proceeded to argue against it. But this was only one of the curious examples of twisted logic that we got from the various speakers against this measure. For instance,  Senator McManus  is unable to join us in support of these amendments because we will not support his pet scheme of a quota preferential system. However, this presumably will not stop him from voting with parties which have had an opportunity to introduce such a system for 23 years but have not lifted a finger to do so. We can only conclude that he must have some reason, other than that which he advanced tonight, for not supporting us in this very worth while amendment of the Act. 

 Senator Withers, with his great natural gift for picturesque analogy, in criticising us for amending the Commonwealth Electoral Act bit by bit and pointing to the fact that we. had had an earlier amendment to the Act before this one was introduced, said that you do not buy a car part by part. But of course this assumes that what we are doing is something similar to buying a new car. Of course, what we have inherited is a ramshackle old bomb, and the act that we are engaged in is patching it up so that at least it will go. 
That is a good idea,  Senator. As  has been pointed out on numerous occasions - notably by  Mr Daly  in the other place - these amendments that we are proposing in this Bill are not our last word on electoral reform. We have indicated clearly that after we have put proposals to the electors on the next occasion we face them and receive a mandate we will throw this old ramshackle model out and get us a new one. So this criticism that we are trying to patch it up does not hold water at all- Of course, we are trying to patch it up so that Ais old bomb will at least go. 

 Senator Drake-Brockman put the curious proposition that somehow or other we are being inconsistent and insincere in ignoring the fact that the Tasmanian electorate does not come anywhere near the quotas which we are urging in these amendments. Our case is that there is spread throughout the Australian electorate a great disparity between the lowest and the highest numbers of people in electorates. Apparently  Senator Drake-Brockman  thinks that he has discovered some sort of Achilles heel in our position by pointing to the fact that the Tasmanian electorates are well below quota. Of course, this is something which we freely acknowledge; they are down to a little bit above 40,000. Evidently  Senator Drake-Brockman  has not heard of section 24 of the Constitution - something that has been there for more than 70 years. After setting out the requirements for the House of Representatives, it states: 
But notwithstanding anything j&gt; this section, 5 members at least should be chosen in each original State. 
So that if  Senator Drake-Brockman  and other honourable senators opposite find something outrageous or reprehensible about (he Tasmanian quotas, one would have expected that in the 23 years during which they sat on the Treasury bench they would have done something in the way of sponsoring constitutional reform. Of course, we know that they have not done that. We know that there is no suggestion in their criticism of the amendments that we are putting before the Senate that the cure for the Tasmanian question is that there should be constitutional reform. I suppose that one would hope in vain to hear from  Senator Wright  - that doughty champion of the rights of Tasmania - any suggestion that the number of seats in Tasmania should be reduced by amendment, constitutional reform or any other method. 

 Senator Withers in his curious, brief speech, after which, following his custom,, he deserted the debate, suggested that nobody on this side of the chamber should mention the States. He said: 'Let us confine ourselves in this argument to the real gravamen of what is before us, that is, the amendment of the Commonwealth Electoral Act, and let us not mention the States because they are irrelevant'. One can imagine why he does not want the States mentioned. For instance, he thought that he had scored some sort of a point on me when he said that the logic of ah interjection I had made was that I would be advocating that there should be a redistribution every 4 years. If that is necessary in order to achieve electoral justice, I do not blink At that proposition. Perhaps on occasions of great mobility or great increases of population it may be necessary to have a redistribution even as often as that. But we have not heard any Liberal voices raised against the habit which is becoming enshrined in electoral life in New South Wales where the Premier,  Sir Robert  Askin, is having a redistribution every 3 years. Presumably there is nothing reprehensible about that conduct from a Liberal; it is an outrageous proposition when it comes from a member of the Australian Labor Party. 
It is embarrassing, particularly to the Australian Country Party, to mention the States when we remember the egregious example of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  who manages to hang on to office in the State of Queensland with an electoral mandate of 19 per cent. 
That is a curious interjection,  Senator. Do  I detect in that interjection some sort of devotion to that kind of a gerrymander? I suggest,  Mr President,  that this question of gerrymanders in the States also is highly relevant in our consideration of Commonwealth Electoral Bills because, as honourable senators will be well aware, the government in a State can have a great bearing on the composition of the Senate. I am referring to the situation of a casual vacancy. As everyone is aware, a casual vacancy in the Senate is filled by the Houses of the Parliament of the State in question sitting and voting together to choose a person to hold that place until the expiration of the term or until the election of a successor, whichever first happens. It will be said by honourable senators opposite that this is an argument which does not hold much water because it is the practice of the Houses of Parliaments in the States when a casual vacancy occurs to fill that vacancy by appointing a senator of the same political persuasion as that of the senator who created that casual vacancy. That may be the case. 
It has not always applied and there is no legal requirement that that practice be followed by the States. I refer the Senate to the book Australian Senate Practice' written by the  Clerk  of the Senate. The author states: 
In the choice of a  Senator to  fill a casual vacancy, the members of the Houses of Parliament of a State are free to choose whom they may. They arc nut, for instance, bound to choose a person from the same political party as that to which a deceased or retired  Senator belonged.  When the political composition of the State Houses is predominately that of the political party to Which a former  Senator belonged,  the State Houses have, naturally enough, chosen a person belonging to that same party. 
The learned  Clerk  goes on to point out that the history of casual vacancies in this country bristles with examples of State Houses filling the vacancy with a senator of a different political persuasion from that of the senator who created the casual vacancy. So I submit,  Mr President,  that it is highly relevant to our consideration of electoral reform to advert to these practices in the States on which  Senator Withers  adjured us to turn our backs. It is perfectly obvious, of course, why he does not like  Sir Robert  Askin or  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  to be mentioned in the context of electoral purity but, as I have demonstrated, this is a matter of some moment to the Senate because it can affect the composition of the Senate. Imagine a situation in which the numbers are deadlocked and a casual vacancy occurs in the representation of a State in which there is an outrageous gerrymander, such as Queensland, or as New South Wales will be in in a few weeks. That State could affect the Government of the Commonwealth by appointing to a casual vacancy a senator who was not of the same political colour as the senator whose death created the casual vacancy.. So with all due respect to  Senator Withers  I suggest that a consideration of gerrymanders anywhere in Australia is of concern to members of this chamber. 

 Senator McManus made great play of his desire for electoral justice. I pay my respects to the contribution of  Senator Prowse  who I thought made the best contribution from the Opposition side, one which 1 respect and one which I think showed a genuine feeling for the people he represents. But of course all speakers from the Opposition side spoke with varying degrees of sincerity and conviction in the name of electoral justice. They found nothing inconsistent with their love of electoral justice and the maintenance of the status quo as far as the Electoral Act is concerned, so let us look briefly at some examples of the electoral justice that we have under this status quo. Some of the figures quoted by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  during the debate on this Bill in the other place - up to date figures on the electors enrolled as at 26th January this year - showed these curious contradictions: In New South Wales the electorate of Chifley has nearly 70,000 voters: Calare has 48,000; Mitchell has 72,000; Cowper has 50,000; Bennelong has 64,000, and Gwydir 49,000. I am giving the enrolments in round figures. In Victoria Diamond Valley has 74,000; Mallee has 45.000; La Trobe has 69,000; Wannon has 48.000; Bruce has 67.000; and Wimmera has 45.000. In Queensland, Bowman has 69,000 and Maranoa has 43,000. 
Despite these differences of from 20,000 to 25.000 between city and country seats, honourable senators on the other side who are defending the status quo say that there is no need for a redistribution. They say that we should stick to what we have. They say that we should stick to the 20 per cent permissible variation from the quota and in that way we will get greater electoral justice than by having a redistribution. Of course, the status quo naturally suits them fine. Why not? In the last election the Country Party won 9.44 per cent of the votes but it ho ds 16 per cent of the seats in the Mouse of Representatives; it holds 20 seats. After getting  5t  times as many votes, the Australian Labor Party holds less than  3i  times as many seats. Honourable senators opposite who claim that they are interested in electoral justice and that they are interested in one vote one value but can defend those discrepancies are either blind or very, very insincere. 
The present law, as we all know, allows a 20 per cent variation from the quota, so if the quota is 50,000, the upper limit is 60,000 and the lower limit is 40,000. This gives a 50 per cent difference in the representation of a country seat and that of a city seat because almost overwhelmingly - almost entirely - it is the country seats which are at the bottom end of the list and the city seats which are at the higher level. In the debate in the other place  Mr Anthony  twitted the Government with inconsistency in allowing for any tolerance at all. He said that there was some sort of hypocrisy in allowing even a 10 per cent tolerance. Of course, we accept the fact, that it is impractical, having regard to the considerations left in section 19 of the Act and to the mobility of our population, especially in recent years, to aim for exact mathematical equity. Therefore we accept the fact that up to a 10 per cent deviation from the quota is tolerable and probably inevitable. 
The recommendation that we of the Labor Party are putting forward is in line with a recommendation of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review as long ago as 1959. It cannot be suggested that what we have put forward has suddenly been sprung on the Australian electors by the Australian Labor Party because in 1961, 1962, 1965 and 1968, when Commonwealth electoral redistributions were under consideration, the Labor Party always moved an amendment calling for a 10 per cent variation in place of the 20 per cent variation which at present is permitted by the Act. 
The only other matter to which 1 wish to refer - it is impossible to cover the whole arena of this argument - is the claim that it is difficult for a country member to represent a large area and therefore it is a breach of the principle of equality of representation to suggest, as we are suggesting, that the numbers in the divisions should be nearer to equality. It was pointed out by  Senator Poyser  that it is not the Country Party which represents the largest electorates but the Australian Labor Party. In fact, I have had a look at the areas of the various electorates. Australian Labor Party members represent the largest, the third largest, the sixth largest and the seventh largest electorates in Australia. They are Kalgoorlie, which is 897,000 square miles; Grey, which is 195,000 square miles; and Darling and, I think, Leichhardt. Of course, it has never been a complaint of the Labor Party representatives of those electorates that they are unable to give fair representation to them. 
This has not been a complaint of the Labor Party representatives. We do not say that we are unable to give adequate representation to these electorates. I suggest that this argument is dragged out for want of a better argument. It is about the only justification that the Country Party can give for what is otherwise a totally indefensible proposition. In conclusion, I suggest that we should face the fact, which the Country Party evidently is not prepared to face, that the percentage of people engaged in rural pursuits is steadily declining and that the Country Party is doing a King Canute act in holding up its hand and saying that, despite this and no matter what happens, the Country Party claims the right to have the same number or even a greater number of representatives in the national Parliament. The Country Party has to face the inevitabilities of history. Those inevitabilities are that the rural population, in proportion to the city population, is dwindling and that there is no reason in terms of electoral justice why its representation in the Parliament should not dwindle accordingly. 
I present the report of Estimates Committee A relating to the particulars  of proposed additional expenditure for the year  1972-73,  together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 As some days have elapsed since the debate on this Bill - the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill - was adjourned, it may be appropriate to remind the Senate of just what is the purpose of the Bill, as stated by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  during his second reading speech. He said that the purpose is:  . . to remove any doubt about the exclusive right of the Commonwealth to sovereign control over the resources of the seabed off the coast of Australia and its Territories, from the low water mark to the outer limits of the continental shelf. The Bill, in addition, provides the legislative framework  to  govern the exploration and exploitation of the mineral resources, other than petroleum, of these submerged lands. 
After listening to  Senator Durack  this afternoon, I wonder whether he along with the other people who are attempting to defer this legislation, has completely forgotten the history of this matter. He spoke, in the familiar cliches of the States' righters, of co-operative federalism and putting the federal system to the test. He referred to the unilateral and arrogant exercise of power by the Commonwealth Governfment. He even had the temerity to suggest that what the Government was doing was being done without any prior discussion with the States. 
Let me remind the Senate of a little of the history of this legislation. It will be recalled that a very similar Bill was introduced into the House of Representatives approximately 3 years ago by the then Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton.  This is not some novel, arrogant exercise of untrammelled centralism by the new Government. It is a sensible attempt to have clarified a field of constitutional power around which some mists have gathered over the years. As  Mr Gorton  said in the debate on this Bill in the other place, nobody suggests that merely by passing this Bill all of this doubt will be dissipated, but at least it will open the matter up for challenge in the place that even  Senator Durack  suggests is the appropriate tribunal to decide these matters, namely, the High Court of Australia. 
Let us examine the reasons that are now advanced, firstly by the mover of the amendment for deferment and then repeated by the various other Opposition speakers, as to why we should not be precipitate in bringing to a conclusion this proposed legislation which we have had 3 years to consider. One would have thought that all the issues concerned in this matter had been abundantly canvassed and considered by members and senators from both sides of the respective chambers and that everybody - constitutional authorities, academics, State Premiers and the public at large - had had ample opportunity to say what he thinks for and against this measure. One would have thought that, of all the measures that have been introduced into the Parliament since this Government came to office, this one, least of all, required the allowance of further time for consideration. Yet this is the only reason that is given for suggesting that we should not proceed and dispose of the legislation in this session but should leave it until the session commencing in August. 

 Senator Withers' amendment for deferment is based, on the proposition that the Opposition deplores the method adopted by the Government of proceeding without consultation with the States and is of the opinion that consultation with the States for a co-operative regime for controlling the exploitation of the resources and generous royalty distribution to the States should commence forthwith. What is suggested is that if we go on talking to the States it might be possible to reach some agreement. I refer honourable senators to the comments that were made by  Mr Gorton  in the other place. Who should know better than he whether there is any possibility of reaching agreement with the States? It was his responsibility, when he was urging the carriage of a very similar Bill 3 years ago, to attempt to reach some agreement with the States. He made these comments in the debate on this Bill in the other place on 17 May 1973, as reported in Hansard: 
There have been innumerable conferences on this matter between representatives of the national Government and the State governments. They have been going on and on over a period of years. Despite what has been said in this chamber, I submit that no progress was made on the central question - the question of who In fact has sovereignty over Australia's seas - at any of those conferences. 
I interpolate that  Senator Durack's  suggestion that there is no dispute on this matter is given the lie by  Mr Gorton.  He does not suggest that this is accepted by all parties. 
How are we to resolve the question? The honourable senator suggested that he had no doubt about it. But the. fact that he has no doubt about it does not resolve the question. Presumably, he now admits that there is plenty to be settled ultimately, I suppose, by decision of the highest court in the land. But how do we get around to this? First of all, there has to be something to challenge.  Mr Gorton  went on to say: 
From communiques issued to us, it appeared that the meetings reached no agreement except an agreement not to try to solve the central matter at all and not to try to put the question of sovereignty beyond doubt by the only method open to this Parliament - passing legislation making an assertion and allowing the body set up under the Constitution to determine the matter. 
So, if we can judge on past evidence, there seems little point now in saying that action should be further delayed while there are more conferences, when in fact all the conferences so far held on this central matter have been abortive. 
This proposition does not come from any member of this Government. It is a proposition which comes from the member of the Opposition who, I submit, is most familiar with this proposed legislation, who is best informed about the discussions which have occurred between Commonwealth and State authorities and who says in effect that time for talking is passed. He says: 'Let us get this on to the statute book and let all challenges to its constitutionality then proceed. Let us have this matter disposed of once and for all'. But as if to underline the futility of further discussions - as  Senator Durack  has admitted - the Premiers are now packing their bags and preparing to go and ask the Privy Council to give them some sort of a declaratory judgment in the matter. Does this sound like the attitude of reasonable people who want to have further talks with us about the matter? Does this not indicate beyond peradventure that these people with whom we are told we should continue to talk have made up their minds, that we are at arms length with them and that the only way to determine the matter in the interests of the people of Australia is to have this Bill passed. If anybody wants to challenge it let it be challenged in the High Court and not go traipsing off to another country and demeaning the sovereignty of Australians by asking a court in another country to give some sort of a ruling on the matter. 
Having examined the hollowness of the Opposition's claim that its real reason for delaying this Bill is to enable conversations to proceed where conversations have failed in the past, I think it is pertinent now to try to get at the true reasons. It has been suggested in one of the newspapers - I am not suggesting that it necessarily is true but we must cast around for some sort of an explanation for what is otherwise inexplicable - that the preselection of some honourable senators may have a bearing on this matter. After all, honourable senators have to deal with their State machines. It is clear that the Premiers in the various States, for their own narrow, small purposes want to prevent the Commonwealth from legislating in this field. It is clear that all sorts of pressure has come from the local machines. It is suggested, and I think with some force, that various honourable senators opposite who are as yet unsure of being reendorsed to enable them to come back here would like to let a few months elapse until their pre-selection has been secured before having to declare themselves on legislation which is disapproved of on their home ground. But further than that I suggest that the timing of this opposition and this suggestion for the deferment is most instructive in relation to the history of the conflict between honourable senators and their leaders in the House of Representatives as to whether this legislation will be agreed to or opposed. 
I suggest that what has played a big role in making up the minds of  Senator Withers,  the mover of this motion, and those who are supporting it is a euphoric misreading of the results of the Victorian election. After all, that incident occurred between the consideration of this Bill in another place and its consideration in this place. In the other place, after various meetings of the Opposition Parties it was decided to put up merely a token criticism of this Bill and to let it through that chamber unamended. Then the Victorian election occurred. As I said, we had this euphoric misreading of the results. It was not understood by honourable senators opposite that the electors who had approved of  Mr Hamer  were approving of somebody who, in his person and in his policies, is as chalk is to cheese when compared with themselves.  Mr Hamer  is a man who has learnt some of the lessons of today. He has had the good sense to steal a great number of the policies of the Australian Labor Party. I suggest that his success in the Victorian poll was largely an endorsement of the policies of the Australian Labor Party. Of all the so-called Liberal leaders in this country who include  Mr Snedden  and the egregious  Senator Withers  who, I see, is again not favouring us by his presence in this debate- 
It is his amendment. One would expect him to be here to defend it. Of all the Liberal leaders, or socalled leaders, in this country  Mr Hamer  is the only one who has had the good sense to read the signs of the times and adopt a policy which is some sort of an approximation of Labor's policy. 
We look in vain to anything we have heard from honourable senators opposite, including  Senator Little- 
I will get to  Senator Little  as I always do. As I say, we look in vain to any of the other Liberal leaders for any recognition that they are living in the 1970s, that the policies of the 1 9th century are out of date and that if they are to have any chance of a comeback they have to try to look a little like  Mr Hamer  and not like  Mr Snedden  or  Senator Withers.  I suggest that in the light of the Victorian election results honourable senators on the Opposition side were carried away and felt that they could draw some comfort from the results and, in fact, that they should try to goad us on this side into a double dissolution. Of course we readily accept that challenge. We are not in any way put out by the Victorian election result. As I say, a very careful analysis of the Victorian result gives a lot of comfort to those who espouse modern policies and no comfort to the antediluvians, the brontosauri, who are clearly in the majority on the Opposition side of this chamber. It is also interesting to see the little example of unity between the Opposition leaders in the other place and in the Senate in relation to this Bill. We all know that  Mr Snedden  had no idea of opposing or deferring this Bill. But  Senator Withers  and those whom he persuaded to support him had other ideas. We know how fond honourable senators are of picking on the most trivial alleged sign of difference between, say,  Mr Whitlam  and  Senator Murphy,  but has there been any more- 

 - Senator, has there been any more spectacular- 
If the honourable senator will tell me when he has finished I will give him the answer. 
-Has the honourable senator finished? Has there been any difference between  Mr Whitlam  and  Senator Murphy  in the life of this Parliament as great as the difference between  Mr Snedden  and  Senator Withers  on this matter? In fact,  Senator Withers  humiliated his leader by getting the tables turned on him and persuading his Party that this Bill should be opposed or at least deferred. It is also interesting to see this line coming from the constant critics of outside interference in parliamentary affairs. We are familiar with the squeals which emerge from the Opposition at any time when the Australian Labor Party shows any sort of an attentive ear - as it sometimes does - to the representations of union officials. That is always considered to be some sort of a derogation from the democratic process, something particularly shameful and reprehensible and showing that we are not really running the country. But what produced this change of heart in the Liberal Party? It had agreed to the Bill passing through the House of Representatives and then decided to change its course. I have given one of the reasons, namely, that it got carried away and misread the results of the Victorian election. But it also bowed to the pressure of the State Premiers and the State machines which, of course, came at a particularly sensitive time, as I have mentioned, when the Liberal Party senators are a little nervous about their reendorsement. How is this for an example of outside influence? Why cannot they be consistent and abhor that kind of outside influence also? But, of course, we know that ouside influence is reprehensible in us but praiseworthy in them. 
I would like to remind honourable senators opposite of the statement that was made by their Leader. Or is he their Leader? Perhaps he is one of their leaders or half a leader; perhaps he is leading them from the rear. I refer to  Mr Snedden,  the man who was humiliated by  Senator Withers.  What did he say in explanation of this volte-face?  His  words were quoted in one newspaper. I assume this will be denied because it is so unfavourable. He was quoted as saying that the Party has developed its view - that is, this new view - having regard to its position in the Senate. That is quaint prose, quaint principles. There is nothing said about the merits of the Bill. He says, in effect: 'We have decided what our new attitude will be to this Bill after having had an attitude towards it.' The first attitude was developed in the councils of the Party. But the Party suddenly developed a new attitude, having regard to its position in the Senate. We have been told repeatedly by honourable senators on the Opposition side that they make up their minds about their attitude towards legislation coming before the Senate on its merits and that they have principles which they apply. The principle which they tell us they apply to this is - what was that picturesque phrase of  Senator Durack's  - a devotion to co-operative federalism and similar high-sounding phrases. 
But  Mr Snedden  has given the show away. He says that the Liberal Party has developed its attitude towards this Bill having regard to its position in the Senate. In other words, because it has the numbers here, because some of its members are infantile enough to read into the adventitious result of an election in one State a notion that  Mr Snedden,  as he put it himself, will soon be Prime Minister, they think that they should twist our tail and provoke us if they can. 
We are going through the motions. We cannot do it immediately. The honourable senator will see what we will do. I will tell him what we will do. We will interpret - that is,  Mr Whitlam  will - a refusal to pass this Bill as a failure to pass legislation, thus giving us a clear mandate to approach the Governor-General for a double dissolution. I would ask the honourable gentleman opposite who got carried away with the result of the Victorian election to ponder this one: When it does come to a double dissolution and when it comes to a conflict on the hustings, do honourable senators opposite know who the combatants will be? The combatants will be  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Snedden. 
Do any honourable senators opposite who have repudiated his leadership of their Party by the move they are taking on this Bill confidently look forward to the result of a contest such as this? 
If  Senator Webster  who will not be with us much longer anyway, can draw any comfort from that interjection, I suggest to him that he give some serious thought to the contestants in the next election which will not be very far off. I refer to  Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Snedden.  If honourable senators opposite want to back their man against ours they are even rasher gamblers than those who gave  Mr McMahon,  the late lamented Leader, a chance against  Mr Whitlam.  We believed they had struck rock bottom with  Mr McMahon. 
He was far enough in front for us to be put in office. As I said, having believed that they had struck rock bottom in  Mr McMahon,  we now have had a revelation that they can go even further down the road of mediocrity, nonentity and political bankruptcy. So we look forward to the contest which they are inviting us to have in the light of the attitude of the Opposition towards this Bill. As I have said, the notion that the real reason for the Opposition delaying this Bill is in order that there should be further consultations with the States, which have refused to discuss the matter further with us, is absolute nonsense. Their real reason is that they think they can gain some political capital out of delaying this Bill. Some of them think also that they can save their hides and make it a little easier for them to come back here. But they should remember what I have said and what is the contest that they are provoking. 
There is no evidence, I submit, that  Mr Snedden  or his Party understand what hit them last December. Despite lots of talk about examining their policies and the structure of their Party, there is no evidence that they have the will, imagination or the intellect to form policies which will be something like the policies which  Mr Hamer  was smart enough to adopt. As I say, there is no indication that such currents are flowing through the Party here in Canberra. The members of that Party have learnt nothing. At least that would appear to be so judging from their performance in this chamber. I suggest that they should think very seriously before embarking upon the perilous course that they are taking in delaying legislation in the way in which they are delaying this legislation. They should remember when they are playing their squalid little political games that they are playing with a subject of great importance to the future of this country. 
 I must confess that I still can be surprised by the logic of the formidable orator who has just resumed his seat. At one stage today  Senator Wright  seemed to be suggesting that the Labor Government should be niggardly with public servants, merely because the Government of which he had been a member had been niggardly with people who had been wounded in a war to which they should never have been sent in the first place. I would like to draw the honourable senator back to the real purpose of this debate. Despite his histrionics I suggest that this debate should be not on the merits of the Bill now before us but on the merits of the proposition that consideration of it by the Senate should be postponed indefinitely. I said indefinitely' advisedly. I will support these remarks fully in the course of what I have to say. 
I suggest that it is quite appropriate that a Party which in office was characterised above all by a quality of inertia should now become so enamoured of a tactic of deferment. This is not the first time we have seen this tactic employed. We saw it employed the other day in relation to the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill when it was suggested that consideration of that Bill should be delayed in order to allow an opportunity for further discussions with State Premiers, with whom there had been an opportunity to discuss this matter over a period of 3 years. They have signalised their readiness to confer further by packing their bags and going to London to get an advisory opinion from the Privy Council. Behind this tactic that is being employed by the Opposition is the basic philosophy of conservatism, that is, if action must be taken - Opposition senators are very reluctant to act - they say: 'Let us have it later rather than sooner'. They believe that the smaller the intervention by governments in human affairs the better off most people will be. I am afraid they are still imprisoned in the old laissezfaire philosophy of the last century. Accordingly it is not surprising that we should-- 
The honourable senator is asking me whether I believe that the more intervention there is in human affairs the better people are. Certainly I do not suggest that. I suggest that the sensible view is that there are spheres of human endeavour in which the state must intervene. I suggest that  Senator Rae  would not be averse to the proposition that a securities industry which has complained for years that it should be left alone should now be subject to some regulation. 
Not to be deflected from the point 1 am trying to make, let us examine the bona fides of the proposition that was put by  Senator Rae  when he moved last nightthe motion for deferment of this legislation. Let us see whether the reason that he gave is the true reason why it is suggested that the Senate should not proceed speedily to a consideration of this Bill.  Senator Rae  said: 
The Opposition moves this motion after the matter has been considered by both the Parliamentary Liberal Party and by the Parliamentary Executive of the Liberal Party. 
It" is extraordinary that he should enter upon this explanation but I suggest he did so in the light of the accusations made about the Opposition's motives in relation to the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill.  Senator Rae  went on to say: 
. and it is with the full co-operation of the other members of the Liberal Party that this motion has been moved. The Liberal Party, in its consideration of the matter, has agreed that- 
Mark this -  in the light of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the disclosure of the exact details of the quantum of some of the benefits conferred by this legislation, the Bill requires further examination because the provisions in it are enormously out of step with all other forms of compensation for death or injury which exist in Australia at the present time. 
I invite honourable senators to consider very carefully the implications of that explanation for this motion. Are there not in the House of Representatives people who are capable of understanding the terms of this Bill without having them pointed out to them by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs? I seem to recall that in the other House there are distinguished lawyers. There is a Queen's Counsel named Bowen. There is a Queen's Counsel named Snedden. There is another distinguished lawyer named McMahon. Are we to understand from what we heard from  Senator Rae  that it was only after a committee, admittedly constituted of highly distinguished lawyers such as  Senator Wright, Senator Durack- 

 - Senator Durack has been gracious enough to mention my name. We also should add that of  Senator Wheeldon. 
1 acknowledge the assistance that we had from the worthy public servants who appeared before the Committee. However I think the honorable senator does an injustice to himself and especially to  Senator Wright  by suggesting that  Senator Wright,  above all, needs any assistance from a public servant, an academic, a professor or anybody else in construing a statute. 
I think it was  Senator Wright.  What I am putting is that  Senator Wright  would be the last senator in this chamber who would need the help of anybody else to construe a statute and also would be the last member of the Senate whose opinion would be affected in any way by anybody's advice. I am suggesting that in any event we have been given a phoney reason by  Senator Rae  and  Senator Wright  as to why this Bill should be postponed. I suggest that the true reason is that given by their agregious leader,  Mr Snedden  - if he is still their leader - in the other place when he said the other day, by way of explanation as to why he had been reversed by his own Party in his attitude to the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, that the Party had developed its view - that is, its new view - of what should be done about a Bill having regard to its position in the Senate. The opposition's motion to defer this Bill has nothing to do with the merits of the Bill. It has everything to do with the tactics that the Opposition has decided upon in relation to legislation that comes before this House. Let us examine  Senator Rae's  reasons for the motion for deferment. I trust that  Senator Gair  who is interjecting will have some great contribution to make to this debate apart from his usual inane heckling, so I suggest he wait until he is on his feet. 
 I cannot hear myself because of your heckling,  Senator. All  I am asking is that you be silent for a few minutes. We will have the benefit of your remarks next week.  Mr Chairman,  let us examine in some detail the reasons put by  Senator Rae. Senator Wright  suggested that deferment of consideration of this Bill pending the tabling of the Woodhouse report will involve a delay of only about 12 months. I am suggesting that it will probably be about 18 months before the report is even tabled. But that will not be the end of it. If the honourable senator will read the report of the debate in the other House he will see that even though no opposition was expressed by the Opposition to this Bill in the other House, when  Mr Cameron  sat down after the first reading of the Bill  Mr Bonnett  got to his feet and, while using the pious expressions about the Bill similar to those used by  Senator Rae  when he said it was his melancholy duty to move the deferment,  Mr Bonnett  warned that when this report was presented the Opposition would not sit by and tamely accept any propositions emanating from it which might constitute an attack on the insurance system in this country. So the notion that it is only a matter of waiting until  Mr Justice  Woodhouse and those assisting him have concluded their inquiries, and that then this Senate will be able to go on with consideration of this Bill, is just not the case. That will be only the beginning of the matter. When the Woodhouse inquiry is finished a report will be submitted to the Minister, it will have to be considered by him, there then will be a debate on any proposals that emanate from it and  Mr Bonnett,  speaking for the Opposition, has indicated that as far as the Opposition is concerned there will be a pitched battle about any proposition to implement a system of national superannuation. 
-Senator, read it very closely. I doubt even that you have read it. 
-What I have said that  Mr Bonnett  said is that your Party would want to look very closely at any proposals which took insurance for personal injury out of the hands of the established insurance system in this country. 
 All the same it does imply that it is not just a matter of waiting until the Woodhouse inquiry is over and that then this Senate can get on with consideration of this Bill. The public servants who are being asked to wait are being asked to wait, I suggest, for 2, 3, 5 years - perhaps for ever. That is the effect of the deferment which is being sought.  Mr Chairman,  in view of the hour I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
When the debate was adjourned last Friday I was pointing out that the debate is not about the merits of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) 
Bill. Although some of the Opposition speakers have taken sideswipes at the substance of the Bill, the pith and substance of  Senator Rae's  motion is that further consideration of the Bill be deferred until after the presentation of the report of the general inquiry into national rehabilitation and compensation by the committee under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Woodhouse. That being the case, I think it is appropiate for the Senate to consider just what the Woodhouse inquiry is all about, in order that it may know how long this motion, if carried, will withhold from Commonwealth public servants the benefits proposed in this Bill. 
The Woodhouse inquiry has very far reaching social and legal implications. Its terms of reference are to be found in the House of Representatives Hansard of 8 March 1973. If the terms of reference are read in full, it will be noted that this committee is charged with investigating the whole field of personal injury law. It has to consider the circumstances which would justify the Commonwealth setting up a national compensation scheme for the whole of Australia. In the course of deciding this matter the committee will consider the circumstances in which injury should be compensated for; the application of the scheme when death results from the injury; the nature and extent of the benefits that should be provided; how the scheme should be financed; the relationship between benefits under the scheme and other social benefits; whether rights under the scheme should be in substitution for all or any of the rights now existing; and other such matters. (Extension of time granted) I thank the Senate. A brief recital of the width of these terms of reference indicates that we are not dealing with a matter that will be finished with quickly, allowing the Senate to proceed then to an examination of the merits of this Bill. What is involved in the Woodhouse inquiry is not only an examination of all our personal injury law on both a State and Commonwealth basis, but also a consideration of State rights which, as we know, are dear to members of the Opposition, and the common law tort of negligence. 
If we are, as may be anticipated from the well-known views of  Mr Justice  Woodhouse who is presiding over this inquiry, to receive from the Committee a recommendation for a new concept of egalitarianism in compensa tion for personal injury, involving perhaps necessarily, if we are to follow the New Zealand example, the abolition of the right of private insurance companies to play any role in this field we can anticipate a long drawn out debate between ourselves and the Opposition on the merits of such a recommendation. So when the Woodhouse inquiry is finished - I anticipate from my personal knowledge of what is going on at that inquiry at the present time that it will be in perhaps 18 months time - the report then has to be debated in both Houses of Parliament. If the Parliament adopts the recommendations of the Woodhouse inquiry, we then will have to set up the necessary institutions to implement its recommendations and have the old ones dismantled. Finally, after all those processes have been exhausted the rights to compensation of public servants covered in this Bill can be considered by the Senate. 
So if we bear all this in mind I think it is clear that what we are suggesting is that the right of Commonwealth public servants to enjoy the benefits contemplated in this Bill be postponed for anything from 3 to 5 years. I do not know whether Opposition senators, including  Senator Wright  and  Senator Rae,  who have spoken in the debate have considered the full implications of the scheme adopted in New Zealand following the inquiry conducted there under the chairmanship of  Mr Justice  Woodhouse. One gets the impression after listening to  Senator Wright  and  Senator Rae  that somehow or other they are looking forward to a report containing similar recommendations to these contained in the New Zealand report being presented and adopted in Australia. The honourable senators who subscribed their names to the supplementary submissions appended to the Report on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill, 1973 presented by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs stated - I take it with approval: 
It is relevant to note that in 1968  Mr Justice  Woodhouse recommended  for New Zealand compensation representing 80 per cent of earnings with an upper limit of $120 per week. 
It is necessary to bear in mind what is implicit in such a recommendation.  Mr Justice  Woodhouse and his committee also recommended the abolition of the common law tort of negligence. So for the whole of the population of New Zealand we have, a recommendation that for any personal injury, regardless of the financial status of the person injured, there should be a maximum compensation of 80 per cent of earnings with a maximum of S 1 20 a week. I do not know whether this is a proposition which commends itself to the honourable senators opposite. I do not know whether they would consider this, to use. the language of  Senator Rae,  to be fair to all sections of the community, as he states he wishes to be. I do not know whether he would consider that a neurosurgeon who was knocked down on his way to work or injured in the course of his duties should be limited to receiving S 1 20 a week during his period of incapacity in the same way as a cleaner in a big building who suffered a similar injury would be limited to this amount of compensation. I suggest that honourable senators opposite face up to the implications of such a scheme. 1 suggest that we have to face up to the fact, without attempting to forecast exactly what the Woodhouse Committee will have in mind, that its recommendations might include one similar to that which was adopted in New Zealand. 
It is also interesting to recall that, in its report in New Zealand, the Woodhouse Committee said in relation to the funding and the implementation of such a scheme, that a scheme such as that must clearly be bandied as a social service by an agency of the Government, lt said: 
In the absence of personal liability and with the disappearance of any element of voluntary contribution, there can be no place for the insurance companies. 
So this is a revolutionary proposition which is being examined by the Woodhouse Committee. In short it will determine whether all of our existing State workers compensation laws should be scrapped, whether all of our third party insurance schemes covering injuries received on the highways should be scrapped, whether all of our laws of negligence for personal injury should go by the board and whether one broad, comprehensive national compensation scheme should be introduced, financed not by private insurance companies but by some State agency. 
I envisage that people who hold the rights of insurance companies dear, people who believe that the rights of the States should not be impinged on in any way, will find plenty to object to in a proposition like this. After all, the Australian Labor Party is not committed to the form of any national compensation scheme. It would not have set up an inquiry such as this to investigate the matter if all its ideas were cut and dried. We may envisage a long, drawn out debate. In fact it is possible that the recommendations of the Woodhouse Committee will never come to the stage of being implemented as law. This is the sort of postponement of the rights of public servants which is being suggested by the Opposition's motion. 
Let us look at possible results of this motion. If the Woodhouse report favours the introduction of the New Zealand scheme, or something approaching it, in this country and if either the Government or the Parliament does not adopt that recommendation the Commonwealth employees will lose anything up to 3 or even 5 years of the benefits suggested while they await the result of these inquiries and the ensuing discussion. If, on the other hand, the Government and the Parliament adopt recommendations of a similar nature to those recommended for New Zealand but decide that the benefits should be in addition to and not in substitution for existing rights, again the Commonwealth employees will be delayed in the enjoyment of those benefits without any justification. The benefits could be extended to cover people who are not at present covered, such as housewives injured in the home or people injured on the roads who are not able to prove negligence. If it is merely an extension of existing rights but leaves untouched the rights under workers compensation Acts in the States and rights under common law liability for negligence, again the Commonwealth employees will have been delayed in the enjoyment of these benefits without any justification. 
If a New Zealand type scheme, an egalitarian scheme which must necessarily provide lower benefits than some which are granted by the courts, especially in common law at the present time - it is surely not suggested that at this stage Australia could afford to pay to every member of the community the type of monetary compensation that is awarded in actions for damages - is adopted and becomes law, not only will the rights and benefits of Commonwealth employees be affected and go into the melting pot but also the rights of all citizens of Australia who happen to be unlucky enough to incur personal injury will be affected. In the meantime, while the Woodhouse Committee is considering all these questions, these other citizens go on enjoying all their rights. It is not suggested that because such a scheme is being examined people who are knocked down on the roads or highly paid people who might be injured by negligence in the course of their employment should have all their rights frozen pending the conclusion of the Woodhouse Committee's considerations. So why should Commonwealth employees alone have their rights frozen pending the result of an inquiry which will be long and which may never be implemented, or which may be implemented in a way which would leave Commonwealth employees outside its scope? 
As I have said, 1 sometimes gain the impression from listening to  Senator Rae  or  Senator Wright  that they are merely awaiting this report with anxious anticipation. I think  Senator Rae  mentioned that the report would be only about 12 months off and that that is all the postponement that is involved in the carrying of this motion. We will see whether he is correct. Even when we receive the report we are in for a bitter, fierce debate around the question of State rights and about the rights of insurance companies. When the Prime Miniser  (Mr Whitlam)  introduced the terms of reference for this inquiry into the other place the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  spoke immediately after him and indicated that the sort of contest to which I am referring would be inevitable. After he had spoken in general approbation of the setting up of this inquiry he said, as recorded at page 411 of the House of Representatives Hansard: 
However the Opposition makes it clear that whatever social and equity benefits the inquiry may be directed  to  achieve, the Opposition will not be prepared to accept a back door method of nationalisation of insurance companies in Australia. 
A little further on he said: 
The Opposition will not stand by and see the insurance companies of Australian nationalised by any indirect method in the name of social equity. 
As I have, pointed out, inherent in a scheme such as the one  Mr Justice  Woodhouse recommended for New Zealand, is the elimination of the role of the private insurance companies. So, on any view of the matter, we are in for a long drawn out inquiry and a long drawn out debate. The recommendations of the Woodhouse Committee may never be implemented or they may be implemented in an attenuated form. This, we are told, is a justification for holding up consideration of the considerable merits of this Bill. 
I submit, as I said the other day, that this is not a bona fide motion. Its purpose is not to await the outcome of a report from the committee of inquiry which will almost certainly be opposed root and branch by the Opposition when it comes down in the far distant future. It is  a  device to delay and, if possible, to forestall this legislation forever. I submit that what the Opposition has in mind is that, if it can hold this Bill up long enough - and if this motion is carried, it will certainly have a lot going for it in the way of a long term delay - some miracle will return it to office and it will then be able to kill the Bill altogether. I suggest that those who really are concerned with granting these benefits to the Commonwealth public servants should not fall for that device. I point out once more that when the matter was debated in the other place, none of the Opposition speakers suggested that they were opposed in principle to the Bill. The honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  said specifically that he approved in principle of carrying  a  little further the benefits that his Government had conferred on public servants when it was in office. This motion should be seen for what it is. It is not a motion designed seriously to enable, the proposals to be considered in the light of what emerges from me Woodhouse Report. It is in fact a device to delay this Bill indefinitely and, if possible, to prevent Commonwealth public servants from ever enjoying the benefits proposed by it. For that reason the motion should be rejected by the Senate. 
Progress reported. 
 I shall speak very briefly. The time that the Woodhouse Committee will take to complete its deliberations is not a matter of shortage of secretarial help or something which can be solved by giving the Committee a few more secretaries or a little more clerical help. When a similar committee met in New Zealand its deliberations occupied several years. Afterwards, when the report was presented the public debate and the ensuing legislation before the New Zealand Parliament occupied a further period of two or three years. New Zealand had a comparatively simple problem compared with the one which we have here. New Zealand was dealing with a unitary state. There was no complication such as we have here in relation to compensation laws, third party laws and laws covering personal injury of great variety spread throughout 6 different States. This is a complicating factor which will lengthen the proceedings before the Woodhouse Committee and, I submit, the time of debate because many more interests are involved in Australia than were involved in New Zealand. I suggest that, with the best will in the world and with the utmost amount of secretarial help, what we can expect before the deliberations of the Woodhouse Committee have been completed and the ensuing debate has been completed and has issued in new legislation and new institutions is, on any view of the matter, a period of up to at least 5 years. 1 repeat that the proposition put forward by the Opposition ultimately amounts to a postponement for a period of 5 years of the opportunity for Commonwealth Government employees to enjoy the benefits proposed by this Bill. 
 Listening to  Senator Greenwood  one could have been pardoned for thinking that during the 23 years of conservative rule there were no strikes or, if there were, they were immediately and ruthlessly crushed by one or other of those conservative governments. We know, of course, that their record in the industrial arena was far less glorious, and that, in the face of the complexities of real life, they wallowed and foundered, backed and filled, huffed and puffed and finally threw up their hands in despair. So let us turn our backs on the fantasies that have been put before us by  Senator Greenwood  and let us look reality in the face. 
The first thing to be noted, seeing that the Opposition has signalled its clear intention of rejecting the Bill, is that this Government has the clearest possible mandate for the enactment of this Bill. Its principal clauses, including its most contentious and controversial clauses, were mentioned by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech, and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  on countless occasions over the last few years has made it clear to the Australian public that, if a Labor government were returned to office, the people would get in the way of industrial legislation precisely what is proposed in this legislation. Rather than waffling, as  Senator Greenwood  has done, about alleged general principles that are merely a rehash of time-honoured conservative prejudices, I propose to deal specifically, without anticipating the detailed debate in the Committee stage, with the more contentious aspects of this Bill in order to rebut the absurd charges that have been made against them. 
I think it would be commonly conceded, and it is something that flows from what  Senator Greenwood  has said, that the most contentious aspect of this Bill is its proposal to remove the so-called penal provisions. He claimed that the abolition of these sanctions makes it almost pointless to have an arbitration and conciliation system. Let us look at what some of the experts have to say about penal provisions. I suppose that any fair minded person would concede that the man in Australia who is in the best position to pass an opinion on the efficacy of the penal provisions is the man who presided over the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the last 20 years or more. I refer to  Mr Justice  Kirby, the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, who recently retired. On his retirement from the bench, at a small gathering in his court he was asked something about penal provisions. He said: 
Penal clauses? I don't think they matter a tinker's cuss. I suppose I shouldn't have answered that question because it could offend both. sides but I honestly think they do not matter. Removal of them will upset some people. Some will see red, white and blue, but the sun will rise in the east and set in the west no matter what they do about them. The Commission will survive their removal for they are more a matter of political ideology rather than practicability. 
So much for  Senator Greenwood's  proposition that the removal of the penal provisions means the end of conciliation and arbitration. The learned judge who presided over the working of this Commission for years did not think so. He thought -that they did not matter; that their passing would leave the efficacy of this jurisdiction untouched. Of course -this is the case, as the learned judge pointed out. 
It is not a matter of concern for industrial realities that drives  Senator Greenwood  and his ilk to sing this old, wornout tune about penal provisions. On the contrary, it is a matter of political ideology, part of the stock in trade of the Liberal Party's disingenuous over-simplification of the facts of industrial life. Fining the unions and having sanctions in an industrial law will not end strikes, has not ended strikes anywhere and contributes nothing to industrial peace. As the Minister for Labour said in the other place when introducing this Bill, workers go on strike whatever the law may have to say about it. The last Government tacitly admitted the failure of the penal clauses, yet honourable senators opposite are echoing again today that the abolition of them would mean the end of the arbitration system. 
No matter what  Senator Greenwood  may say about the collection of fines, the fact remains that when the . last .Government amended the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in 1970 and imposed a slightly watered down version of its penal structure, it made no attempt to collect more than $20,000 in fines that were still outstanding. It connived at the fact that its penal legislation had failed and it could do nothing to collect those fines.  Senator Greenwood  says that the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union paid some of its fines, but we all know that it did that not because of any threats or because it feared that it would be deregistered or would not be able to continue if it did not pay them, but merely to smooth the way for the amalgamation which it entered into towards the end of last year. We also must remember that, even though 24,000 breaches of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were detected by the last Government's inspectors in the last 2 years, it prosecuted in only 5 cases. In other words, it did not believe in the efficacy of its own penal structure; it merely wanted these penal clauses in the Act as something to talk about on occasions such as this in order to be able to posture as the defender of law and order. 
Only totalitarian societies can stop strikes, though even in countries such as Czechoslovakia, Poland and Hungary the might of the Red Army has not been able to suppress strikes. Our legislation faces the reality that penal clauses achieve nothing except to act as an irritant. We maintain that the elimination of these penal clauses from the Act will change nothing in the real sense because, no matter what  Senator Greenwood  may say, they have been a dead letter in recent years. The last Government knew that it could not implement them, and we would not have been able to implement . them if we had not removed them. What we have done is remove so much dead waste from the statute book. Nothing in real life will be altered; we have merely faced reality. 
The second matter which is contentious and on which  Senator Greenwood  spent some time is the proposition that the removal of recourse to the civil courts by employers who feel aggrieved by the concerted action of employees or by the actions of trade unions also will contribute to the dislocation of industrial life and will make peace in industry harder to attain. This refers to clause 55 of the Bill. It inserts proposed new section 146a which frees unions and union officials from liability to action in tort for actions arising out of industrial matters. I can recall that when amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were being debated in this place last year the Opposition, as we then were, moved an amendment designed to achieve the purpose which this proposed new section 146a is designed to achieve. (Quorum formed). On that occasion  Senator Greenwood  and others raised a great hue and cry to the effect that what we were seeking was to legitimise criminal activity in industrial matters. It was suggested that we were attempting to open the door to violence and intimidation and that the removal from unions and union officials of liability to action in tort was an invitation to criminality. I am sure that  Senator Greenwood  is sufficiently versed in the law to know that that was never intended and would not have been the effect of what the then Opposition was proposing. But, in case he seriously maintains that that is the effect of what we are now proposing to insert in the Act, I draw his attention to a specific provision in proposed new section 146a which reads: 
In this section, 'act' does not include a wilful act that directly causes - 
death or physical injury to a person; or 
physical damage to property, or a threat of such an act, or a wilful act that constitutes defamation or a threat of defamation. 
In other words, for more abundant precaution these words have been inserted in this section to make it quite "clear that we are not suggesting that any acts which otherwise would be illegal if not performed in combination will not remain illegal under our suggested amendments to the Act. 
This proposed new section has been depicted by  Senator Greenwood  and others who have criticised this legislation as a novel revolutionary breach in the legal ramparts which protect society from anarchy. However, proposed new section 146a (2) more or less reproduces the language of the English Trade Disputes Act 1906, whilst proposed new section 146a (3) is reminiscent of the language of Disraeli's Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act 1875. We have no indication yet of the intention of the Democratic Labor Party in respect of this provision of the Bill relating to immunity from actions in tort; but, if we can gain some guidance from the record of  Senator Gair  when he was Premier of Queensland, I anticipate that we will be receiving the support of that Party for this provision.  Senator Gair  may have forgotten 
 Senator Gair,  I am glad to see, recalls and maybe this is a harbinger of a happy vote on this clause. But I remind him and honourable senators generally that Queensland is the only State of Australia which adopted the provisions of the English Trade Disputes Act 1906 and throughout the period that  Senator Gair  was Premier of Queensland there was on the statute book a provision almost in line with the provision we are now proposing to insert in the Act. I refer to what are now sections 70 and 72 of the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1961-1964, which were taken from the Queensland Trade Union Act 1915. I shall refer briefly to those sections. Section 70(1) of the Act to which I referred reads: 
An action against a trade union, including an industrial union registered under this Act, or against any members or officials thereof on behalf of themselves and all other members of the union in respect of any tortious act alleged to have been committed by or on behalf of the union, shall not be entertained by any court. 
I will not read sub-section (2) because it is not relevant. Section 72 (1) reads: 
An act done in pursuance of an agreement or combination by two or more persons shall, if done in contemplation or furtherance of an industrial dispute, not be actionable unless the «ct, if done without any such agreement or combination, would be actionable. 
Sub-section  (2)  of that section states: 
An act done by a person in contemplation or furtherance of an industrial dispute shall not be actionable on the ground only that it induces some other person to break a contract of employment or that it is an interference with the trade, business or employment of some other person, or with the right of some other person to dispose of his capital or his labour as he wills. 
These provisions were on the Queensland statute book from  1915.  Does anybody suggest that they made Queensland a more lawless State than other States? I am sure that  Senator Gair  would not assent to any such suggestion. 
The fact remains,  Senator, that  you did not bother to remove from the statute books these provisions which explicitly excluded unions or union officials from actions in tort. 
It may be asked: Why do we spell out this exemption now? The reason is that though they were frequent in England in the bad old days, in Australia tort actions in industrial matters fortunately have been a rarity. But lately there has been increasing resort to them. There have been  6  in recent times, including one with which  Senator Cavanagh  will be familiar, the one of Woolley v. Dunford in South Australia. There was also one in Victoria, the Ford Motor Company v. The Transport Workers Union of Australia. We fear that if there is to be a revival of this form of action and an increasing resort to actions in tort on industrial matters - the legal authorities, including the learned authors who were quoted earlier by  Senator Greenwood,  Professor Sykes and  Mr Glasbeck,  agree with this - the door is wide open for such actions since, except in the State of Queensland where they are excluded by statute, there is ample resort available to employers in respect of the torts of conspiracy, inducing a breach of contract or intimidation. We believe that actions for tort will not prevent strikes any more than penal clauses prevent strikes. In fact, they will tend only to exacerbate industrial relations. 
Despite anything that  Senator Greenwood  may have said to the contrary, we are concerned with the public interest. We are not concerned with the grievances of any particular employer. We think that the public interest is much more important than that some employer may have the right to rush to court for penalties against a union or group of union officials because there has been a strike, lasting a day of so, that he may have provoked. We believe that the public interest is much better served by excluding 'that employer from any possibility of bringing what the English have long regarded as something to be eschewed, namely, an action in tort by an aggrieved employer. It is for that reason - precisely because we do have regard for the public interest - that we believe that the action in tort should be removed as a possibility in matters of industrial disputation. 
Well,  Senator, I  thank you for that contribution. There would be some who would say that Queensland has always been in the van of progress. There are some pf course who would assert that the momentum of progress in that State has run down in recent years. But that, of course, is nothing that we can hold against  Senator Gair. 
 The final matters to which I wish to advert in respect of this Bill, because. I am not attempting to cover the whole field, but only its more contentious aspects, are the measures which we have taken in this Bill to facilitate the amalgamation of unions. I would suggest that any senators who put political considerations out of . their minds and look at this, matter honestly must admit that any measures designed to facilitate union amalgamations are squarely in the public interest because, as has been pointed out in the debate on this Bill in the other place and as has been pointed out often, Australia has just too many tradeunions. At the end of  1970  there were, I believe,  305  separate trade unions in Australia. Of those,  150  had less than  1,000  members, only  14  had more than  50,000  members while  19  had more than  20,000  members. 
Well, by contrast, in West Germany with a population of  61  million, there are only  16  unions, lt must be obvious, on a moment's reflection, that larger unions not only produce more efficient service to union members but also save society and employers from much unnecessary disputation and disruption of the. continuity of employment. 
Everybody is familiar with the fact that over recent years the most vexing and troublesome form of strike has been the demarcation dispute. This is a natural concomitant of an industrial situation where there are large numbers of unions competing for membership, some of them with declining membership fighting tooth and nail for survival. This is not a pretty picture. It is not anything that anybody on this side of the House applauds. We would like to see the demarcation dispute disappear. It does not serve the interests of the unions themselves, the purposes of industry or the nation and we believe that we are legislating in the national and public interest by introducing these sections designed to facilitate amalgamation. 
We need only to cast our minds back to the legislation that was introduced last year in the Parliament by 'the previous Government on the question of amalgamation. It was full of pitfalls for unions attempting amalgamation. In fact, it was clear that the purpose of the legislation was to make amalgamation of unions as difficult as possible. On occasions when amalgamation legislation was not being discussed, we have had even remarks from  Mr Lynch,  who was formerly Minister for Labour and National Service, more or less along the same lines as the words that I am speaking today. When he was not contending for the political interests of his Party, he was conceding what I am saying now - that legislative measures designed to facilitate amalgamation are in the national interest. 
This Bill contains measures which remove the obligation for ballots for amalgamation - what are called official ballots - to be conducted as of necessity by the Industrial Registrar while it permits the union to request a ballot to be held in such a way if it wishes. We also embody an amendment which we sought to put into the Arbitration Bill when it was being debated in this chamber last year, namely, a requirement that the host union which may be much larger than a small union which seeks to&gt; amalgamate with it should not be required to hold a ballot if, in fact, the union seeking to amalgamate with it has only 5 per cent of the number of members of the host union. This was an amendment which we proposed, which, was eminently sensible . but which was rejected by the then Government last year, and which now appears in this Bill. We have also provided that a simple majority df the members of a union should be sufficient to encompass the aim of an amalgamation and, of course, we have eliminated a requirement that there can be a ballot inquiry into amalgamation votes when the vote has been conducted officially by the Registrar. 
I have touched only briefly on the more controversial measures of this Bill because, of course, there will be an opportunity for the Senate to consider it in detail in the Committee stage. I think that the case against it by honourable senators opposite was, as usual, grossly overstated by  Senator Greenwood.  He attempted to paint a picture- of chaos and anarchy  ensuing if these amendments of the arbitration structure were carried. On the contrary, we maintain that this Bill and the amendments to the arbitration structure that we have introduced represent a facing up to the realities of industrial life and that, far from provoking more industrial strife or disruption of the life of this country, they will assist in the way of industrial peace. I submit that this is a sensible and realistic Bill which deserves the support of the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to previous questions asked in this sessional period by Senators Gietzelt and Mulvihill concerning the plight of civilian and military prisoners in South Vietnam gaols. In view of the overwhelming evidence that the Thieu Government is continuing to breach the provisions of the cease fire agreement relating to the release of political prisoners and is holding a great number of such prisoners under barbarous and brutal conditions, will the Prime Minister, when he sees  President  Nixon later this year, urge the  President  to use his influence with  President  Thieu to secure the release of all political prisoners in South Vietnamese gaols? 
-Can the Attorney-General inform the Senate of the progress being made in implementing the announced proposals to establish a viable legal aid service throughout the country? What role will existing legal aid and legal advice services play in this national plan to remove the price tag from justice? 
-Thank you,  Senator Wright.  Can the Attorney-General outline the contribution he envisages being made by salaried lawyers and private legal practitioners in the scheme? 
The Senate is debating  a  matter of urgency proposed for discussion by  Senator Rae,  chiding the Government for denying the right of every Australian child to receive economic support for his education needs from Government funds. Specifically, this complaint relates to the Government's decision to withdraw grants for recurrent expenses to schools which fall within the Karmel Committee's category A. They are the richest, most lavishly endowed of our private schools. 
I take it that  Senator Wright  will favour us with his lucubrations a little later. If he will give me a chance, I will say my piece now.  Senator Webster,  who 1 sec in the Senate chamber, spoke or rather wept from the pocket as one affected by this decision.  Senator Carrick,  as is his wont, saw in this decision another proof that the Australian people elected a Bolshevik government last December. If the standard of debate on this motion is a fair sample of the level of criticism which the Government is likely to get in this present session, evidently we are in for a boringly easy time. 
I would like to remind the Opposition of a few figures. In the biennial period 1971-72 all grants to non-government schools from the former coalition goverment led by  Mr McMahon  amounted to $71. 5m. Under the proposals of the Karmel Committee, the present Government will grant in the 1974-75 biennial period approximately SI 95m to non-government schools. In 1974-75 the Labor Government will grant approximately S495m to State schools. That represents a twofold increase over the performance of the previous Government. In the light of these figures, how breathtakingly fatuous it is that the Opposition in the Senate should choose the subject of education for its first attack on the Government during this session of the Parliament. I decline to enter the contest in windy rhetoric to which  Senator Carrick  attempted to reduce this debate before the suspension of the sitting. Instead I propose to make one simple elementary point. 
This is why 1 want to make it simple: It is obvious that some members  of  the Opposition,  after  dinner, find it difficult to follow one simple elementary point. I ask those few of them who are in the Senate chamber to give me special attention so that they may be able to follow this one simple elementary point. In deciding that after 1973 there will be no further grants for recurrent, as against capital, expenses in schools in category A, the Government is not, as  Senator Rae  suggested, denying the right of every Australian child to receive economic support for his educational needs from Government funds. Those children will continue to receive support from the Government. Let me explain how this will happen. The latest statistics show that just under 10 per cent of all taxpayers claim §200 or more per child for education expenses. This amounts to a taxation concession each year of some SI 5m. The overwhelming majority of those taxpayers receiving the benefit would be parents of children attending category A schools. 

 - Senator Young laughs. He does not believe this. 
The 
Coombs task force recommended the abolition of this concession. But the Government did not accept this advice. 

 - Senator Rae talks about leaks.  His  Party has been the repository of leaks from the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in recent months.  His  leader suggested that the Coombs task force report should be made public 2 weeks before he protested about its having been leaked. I would have thought that the word 'leak' is the last word that the Opposition would dare to mention. I think that members of the Opposition should put themselves under a self-denying ordinance not to mention the word 'leak', at least for the duration of this session. In any event, this concession of SI 5m to the parents of children attending mostly category A schools will continue. 
The case which the Opposition attempts to make against us today is that we have dishonoured an election promise by discontinuing the current grants to the category A schools this year. If the Opposition wants to be pedantic it can say that we-have dishonoured the promise. Would members of the Opposition have preferred that we continue the recurrent grants paid by the previous Government amounting to $5m a year and only for the next 10 years, which would satisfy the promise, and abolish the taxation concession forever? Would they have preferred that? The taxation concession amounts to a SI 5m a year subsidy to the parents of children attending a category A school. If the Government had accepted the advice from the Coombs task force which would not have involved us in the breach of promise with which  Senator Rae  has charged us today the people for whom  Senator Rae  speaks would be out of pocket by $10m a year. Would they prefer to be placed in that position or to have us commit a breach of promise? 
This is all I want to say on this subject. This is such a transparently fatuous motion that I think one would be dignifying it by speaking to it at any greater length. As one who, like  Senator Webster,  is personally affected adversely by this decision I applaud it as a wise and a fair one. 
I bring up the second progress report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts on all aspects of broadcasting and television. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
 I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
This progress report speaks for itself but 1 shall add a brief comment. We began considering this reference in May 1972. There was a gap of about 6 months in our sittings between September last year and April this year due to the intervention of an election and the rather belated reconstitution of the Committee. Although our beginning may seem to have been a long while ago we have really been sitting for only about 10 months. In that time between our other duties we have fitted in 20 sitting days, which is not bad all things considered. Unlike some matters which are referred to Senate committees broadcasting could not be called a politically neutral area. As we have found it is inextricably enmeshed in politics. Our deliberations are therefore an acid test of civility in the real meaning of the word; that is arguing and contending in a civilised way. 
Anyone who takes the trouble to read this progress report will discover that we have reached the stage of posing questions and not of making firm recommendations except in the one area of frequency modulation. We have cleared the ground to some extent but we are not yet ready to erect the house. My estimate - and it is mine alone - is that our final report will emerge possibly in the autumn session of next year. I hope that we will be able to reach a consensus as to what is best for the future of broadcasting but I am afraid that I would not bet on it. I find myself developing passionate convictions on the subject and I know that I am not alone on the Committee in this respect. If we cannot reach a consensus I would be against a bland, waffling, compromise report. I would prefer to see two or more positive, even idiosyncratic, sets of recommendations. Of course in the meantime we will strive for a consensus in a spirit of civility. 
-Has the Minister for the Media, as the Minister responsible for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, received any complaints about the inadequacy of facilities for rehearsal at the Sydney Opera House? 
-On the whole  Senator Carrick  maintained, in my view, a temperate tone and I hope it will be adhered to by the rest of the speakers in this debate. We do no service to the brave men to whom he has referred by indulging in any hymn of hate against the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I believe that in general  Senator Carrick  avoided any such attack. After all, at the present time we are in a particularly delicate situation in relation to the Soviet Union. Whatever we think about the Soviet Union and whatever we think about the United States, there is no doubt that the relationships between those 2 great powers will have a great deal to do with the sort of lives that we and our children will live in this country. Whatever we may think of  President  Nixon, there is no doubt that over recent months negotiations designed to produce a real detente between the great rivals in the world- the Soviet Union and the United Stateshave been in train.  Dr Kissinger  has been confronted with a great dilemma in respect of this very problem that we are discussing tonight. 
Understandably, there is in the United States, as there is in the rest of the world, a justifiable concern with what I believe are clear-cut manifestations of repression of opinion by dissident intellectuals in the Soviet Union. On the one hand we have to strive to conduct our relations with the Soviet Union in such a way as to promote the detente. We have to face up to the fact that, whatever anybody may think about the Soviet Union, it is not going to be puffed out of existence; it is here to stay for the foreseeable future. We have to learn to live with it, just as the Soviet Union has to face the fact that it has to learn to live with the capitalist United States. I believe- I agree with  Senator Carrick  on this - that we do not do any service to the cause of detente or to the cause of liberty throughout the world by remaining silent about the repression which I believe is occurring in relation to dissidents in the Soviet Union. 
At the same time I suggest- I do not do this in any contentious or partisan way- that when we are talking of human freedom we should be aware also of selective indignation. I think we should bear in mind that civilised men throughout the world also should be appalled and disturbed at what has happened in Chile in recent weeks. I think the United Nations should conduct an inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the death of the great Chilean poet, Pablo Neruda, who may have died naturally of cancer; but there are certain circumstances surrounding his death that I would like to see probed. We also should be aware that there daily torturings are occurring in the prisons of Brazil. I think it is about time the world body had a look at the allegations of gruesome massacres in the Portuguese colonies such as Mozambique. 
Having said all that, 1 think we have to face the fact that the Soviet Union has come a long way since the days of Stalin when a Solzhenitsyn or a Sakharov, far from being able to trumpet an appeal to the world, would have been allowed nothing much more than to stand up in the dock and parrot a prepared confession prior to a quick death. Nonetheless, I accept that in the terms of this motion there is a prima facie case to support the allegations made by the 2 leading Soviet dissidents, Alexander Solzhenitsyn and Andrei Sakharov, that human rights of political dissidents are being abrogated in the Soviet Union. 
The dissident movement in the Soviet Union developed following Khrushchev's admission to the 20th Congress of the Communist Party that the horrors of the Stalinist period, which had long been known to discerning people throughout the rest of the world but which had been denied by the communist movement throughout the world, in fact had occurred. He announced what came to be known as the thaw. But members of what might be called the opposition in the sense of people who did not go along fully with the regime in the Soviet Union were dissatisfied with the restrictions that continued to be placed on them even after Khrushchev's speech and some of them advocated radical changes to the social and economic system. But it is important, I think, to remember that very few of the critics advocated any basic change in the socialist system of the USSR. The criticisms of Solzhenitsyn and Sakharov, even of Pasternak, were really based on the notion that the ideal of the Soviet system was not something with which they quarrelled, but they did quarrel with the implementation of that ideal. They believed it had gone astray in the hands of ruthless men who had put- the familiar thing of people who love humanity but hate human beings- ambition and a sort of schematic, soulless planning above the interests of the people they were supposed to be serving. Freedom, of course, is a heady draught and the thaw, as is the nature of such things, largely got out of hand. It developed a movement of its own. 
I am not suggesting that at any stage the Soviet system has been imperilled. I believe that the Soviet authorities have had the dissident movement well and truly under control, and I believe that they could have have allowed a much greater amount of freedom than they have done without any threat at all to the system. I do not believe that the basic, fundamental Soviet structure is in any peril. In saying that I am not expressing any approval or disapproval of it, I am looking at the question to which, I think, this motion is directed, the interest which humanitarians and civil libertarians all over the world should have in the civil rights of people in any country. There is, as  Senator Carrick  has pointed out and in my belief, abundant evidence that the Soviet authorities have over-reacted to the criticisms of the dissident intellectuals in their country. A few years ago we had what was, I suppose, the first case which caught the eye of the world after the short-lived Khrushchev thaw. That was the trial of the 2 Soviet writers Sinyavsky and Daniel, who were tried openly but accused of the old familiar charges of crimes against the State merely because they had made criticisms which one would have thought a confident regime would be able to accommodate. Since then we have heard of the cases cited by  Senator Carrick:  The case of the geneticist Zhores Medvedev who was deprived of his passport while on a lecture tour of Britain; the case of Vladimir Maximov who was expelled from the Union of Soviet Writers and his novel 'Seven Days of Creation' described as 'anti-Soviet'; and the case of Andrei Amalrik whose work, which was referred to by  Senator Carrick,  I happen to have read in translation. Reference also has been made to Victor Krasin the economist and Pyotr Yakir the historian who ironically is the son of a famous victim of Stalin's purges. These brave men, despite the risks that they know they run in saying their piece, have been able to get their message to the world in general. I think with respect that this is something from which we should all take some comfort. 
In 1936, 1937 and 1938 the thought of anybody, even, for instance, Maxim Gorki, who is as famous a man as Solzhenitsyn it a man much closer to the throne, voicing their dissent was unheard of. I have no doubt from what I have read that Gorki's former friendship with Stalin did not preserve him from the purge when Stalin decided he was expendable and should not be around any more to voice even the mild doubts that he was expressing. At least today a Solzhenitsyn. a Sakharov and an Amalrik can reach the rest of the world. They do not disappear overnight. This, I think is what gives point and worth to a motion such as the one we are considering tonight. I think the Soviet Union has reached the stage where it is no longer completely impervious to world opinion. Among other things the Soviet Union has reached a stage where it needs massive technical and capital assistance to develop its own resources. It is quite clear from the negotiations which Brezhnev has conducted with Nixon and  Dr Kissinger  that the Soviet ruling circles do not believe that they can shut themselves off from the rest of the world and be indifferent to what the rest of the world thinks about them. 
I think that in a situation like this is behoves people in the rest of the world, like ourselves, who while accommodating to the fact that the Soviet Union exists and is possibly a permanent fixture in world society, nonetheless to regard dissident intellectuals or human beings in general in those countries as people like ourselves, people in whose fate we have an interest and people for whom we are prepared to raise our voices. Whilst I disagree with  Senator Hannan  on many of his views of the world, especially his view of the Soviet Union, I applaud his raising of this issue. I would hope, as I said when I got to my feet, that everybody who speaks in this debate will speak responsibly, will speak without hate and will speak with a knowledge that we can no longer afford the luxury of just sounding off about what we do not like in the Soviet Union or, if it comes to that, what we do not like in the United States. I believe that we have to recognise the limitations of our likes and dislikes. But I think it behoves any people who claim to be civil libertarians and who claim to be democrats to raise their voices against the sort of repression which I am convinced is occurring in the Soviet Union at present. We should give comfort to those great brave men like Solzhenitsyn, whose works I have also read. I have read 'Cancer Ward' and 'The First Circle' and I must say that I was greatly moved by these works. I thought that it was a wonderful beacon of hope for the human species that a man like Solzhenitsyn could go through what he has been through in a physical, mental and spiritual sense and still devote the rest of his strength to try to persuade the rest of his fellows to his vision of what sort of world it should be and how a man should behave. 
So I feel no inhibition whatsoever although I belong to a Party which has traditionally been considered to be over-partial to the Soviet Union. Whilst not resiling from the proposition that we should restrain ourselves from any violent attack on the Soviet Union, I feel no inhibitions at all in solidarising with the speakers who suggested and who moved that we should speak up on behalf of Solzhenitsyn, Sakharov, Amalrik, Grigorenko and all those other courageous dissidents in the Soviet Union. 
Of course, we are not exactly the trail blazers in this. The Leader of the Federal German Republic, Herr Brandt, had something to say on this subject on 8 September. Honourable senators would know that since he has become Chancellor he has devoted a lot of his energies to a detente with the Soviet Union. Herr Brandt did not hesitate to speak up and say: 
I feel allied- and not just since yesterday- with those who are in danger because of their convictions. 
Of course, Herr Brandt is a man whose record entitles him to make such a statement without any accusation of hypocrisy. Those honourable senators who know his war record and his record since will know that he is a man who has always been prepared to risk his life for his convictions. He went on to say: 
My views on the freedom of culture and science are known to the Soviet leaders. This is not material for sensation. The feeling of being allied with people who are struggling for intellectual self-assertion must not lead us to forget those who still lose their lives by open violence. A policy making peace between states more secure must especially always be pursued in the realisation of the distance that still exists between the realities of today and a truly peaceful world. 
In a similar vein on 13 September the Netherlands Foreign Minister,  Mr Van  der Stoel said in the Netherlands Parliament that his Government was particularly alarmed by news of the more acute attitude towards Soviet citizens expressing views critical of society there. He stressed the importance which his Government attached to a more liberal exchange of persons, ideas and information between East and West and mentioned the initiatives which the Netherlands Government proposed taking to this end during the present phase of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe. 
Similarly our own Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  made the following statement to the Press on 1 1 September in answer to a question on the very matters which are the subject of this debate. He said: 
I wasn't proposing, and despite your invitation I don't think it's likely that I will, to protest to the Soviet Union about these matters. Nevertheless, I can say here what I think must be in the minds of you all, that it's one of the constant disappointments in the Soviet system that, like successive Russian Governments for the last couple of hundred years, they so penalise their intellectuals. There is a premium put on conformity, and it is one of the ugly features of Soviet life. I would have hoped that it was diminishing. I regret to say there have been so many recent incidents where this penalising has come to public knowledge. 
Some would think that that falls short of the sort of motion that has been put today. But I quoted this extract as an illustration of the fact that our own Prime Minister is not unconscious of what is happening in the Soviet Union in respect of dissident intellectuals and that he also solidarises himself with their cause. The Australian Government has on many occasions made its view known about denial of fundamental human rights. I am assured that it will give consideration to whether there are grounds for bringing the recent developments in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the attention of the United Nations in some form or other and in this regard will consult with other friendly Governments which share similar views. Soviet leaders have said in recent years that they are actively seeking a climate of detente between East and West. Australia- this present Government- believes, together with other Western countries, that this detente is in the interests not only of the people of the Soviet Union but also of the people of the world at large. While supporting the motion I suggest that we should conduct this debate and, in fact, all considerations of problems such as this in a temperate, humanitarian tone. As I said at the outset, we do no service to these men in seeking to make political capital by name calling of opposite parties. If we are sincere- and I give credit to the mover and seconder of the motion as being sincere- in our attempt to help these men I believe that we can do so by being restrained, temperate, avoiding hymns of hate and by reminding the Soviet Union that it lives in the world, that it needs the goodwill and the help of the world to develop its own system to nourish in the world and that the cause of detente is served by paying regard to the liberties which are considered to be a minimum requirement of civilised society. That means that it must begin to treat men like Solzhenitsyn, Sakharov, Amalrik and others better than they are treated at the present time. 
No matter of principle is involved in this clause. This is purely a technical matter. The Opposition amendment proposes the retention of the table of parts in section 3 of the Act. The clause provides for its deletion. It was inserted as a result of general Government policy to standardise the form of Acts and to include a table of contents as a cover sheet to each Act when it is reprinted. No matter of principle is involved. The amending words are necessary if the section is retained in the Act, as the Opposition seeks. 
I was relieved to hear that the previous  speaker, Senator Greenwood,  had taken to heart the advice which fell from the honourable member for Wannon,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, in the House of Representatives when he was discussing this Bill the other day. He suggested that it was the objective of the Opposition in discussing this Bill to reduce the temperature of industrial debate. He said that we wanted rational discussion based on the merits of particular arguments. I was relieved to find that the inflamatory tone that one has come to associate with  Senator Greenwood's  remarks was largely missing in the speech we have just heard him deliver. But I think that he would have been more consistently faithful to  Mr Malcolm  Fraser 's injunction if he had been able to restrain himself from the rather extravagent references that he made to the strike wave which has characterised industrial life over the last few months. Surely it must be apparent to anybody who is not trying to score cheap political advantages that the solution to the problem of strikes is particularly complex and that it does not necessarily have much to do with what government happens to be in office. 
It is largely inexplicable that at a certain moment strikes seem to become endemic and then die down for no reason that anybody seems to be able to explain adequately. Certainly, it is not open to members of the Opposition to suggest that they ever discovered any magical formula for the prevention, settlement or elimination of strikes. It is only in totalitarian countries, as I pointed out when we were discussing the predecessor of this Bill in April of this year, that some quick, magical answer to strikes seems to have been found. I am quite sure that no honourable senator on the Government side or on the Opposition side is suggesting that we should resort to methods such as that. Of course, as we saw in the case of the waves of strikes which brought down the Government of Poland a year or so ago, the armies of the authoritarian countries have not been able to find a complete answer to the question of strikes. 
So I suggest that we approach this question of strikes as we approach the other aspects of this Bill, in the spirit which was suggested by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser and which I must say was adhered to by him in what I thought was the most careful examination of industrial problems that we have had from the Liberal side of politics in recent years. I do not think that we are contributing anything to this complex problem by attempting to make it a matter of blaming one side or the other. Certainly, in order to have this Bill which we have considered necessary passed, we have eliminated some of the contentious aspects contained in the Bill presented to the Senate earlier in the year, notably the provisions abolishing penalties. This is not because we have suddenly discovered some special virtue in penalties. The penalties are still in this Bill because we recognise that we cannot get it through if we stick to the provisions abolishing penalties which were in the previous Bill. Those penalties were available to the previous government over a very long period but they proved to be a fiasco. They did not prevent strikes. They did not solve strikes. Even though those penalty provisions were there previous Governments reached the stage where they were just not game to use them. 
Even though we are not discussing penaltiesand I suggest that we should not waste our time in discussing them- I raise the matter merely because the last  speaker  seemed to suggest that he has some way, about which he has not told us, of preventing strikes and of getting a state of complete industrial peace or near industrial peace. There is only one other matter on which he touched which I would like to mention and that is the matter of Moore v Doyle. He suggested that the Bill which we have introduced pays no regard to the real needs of industrial life and that in some way or other we do not face up to the realities of industrial troubles. Now he has said that the matter of Moore v Doyle, even though he is not satisfied with what we are suggesting, would solve this problem. He mentioned that in the life of previous governments there had been discussions about the matter. It had not managed to solve the problem but it had at least evidenced some desire on the part of previous Governments to solve it. I merely point out that in the matter of Moore v Doyle the Commonwealth Industrial trial Court, which brought down its judgment in early 1969, stated: 
We have decided to refer our judgment in this matter and these remarks to the Attorney-General for the Commonwealth in the hope that it may be possible, after consultation between Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General, the trade unions, both federal and State, and other interested government authorities to arrange for the examination of the important organisational matters to which we have referred. 
That suggestion was put to the Commonwealth Government 4.5 years ago. The parties which now form the Opposition were the Government for almost 4 years after that suggestion had been put to them by the Commonwealth Industrial Court. To suggest that their record is more realistic and more urgent than ours in the light of this situation is very difficult to swallow. We came to office on 2 December last year and by April this year, when the precursor of this Bill was introduced into the House of Representatives, after we had been in office for 4 months, there was provision designed to try to grapple with this problem. Whether one will find a solution to this problem is another matter. In my view some sort of constitutional change will ultimately have to be faced up to if we are to solve this vexed question raised in the Moore v Doyle situation. This is really based on the fact that we have a dichotomy of powers in the industrial field between Federal and State authorities. It may be that without a grant of powers from the States or without a constitutional amendment that situation is insoluble. However, I understand that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has had discussions with his counterparts in other States and that he has been promised complementary legislation. 
The first step has to be the introduction of provisions to deal with the problem which we find in this Bill. It has become almost an academic joke. Evidently the words 'Moore v Doyle' in the eyes of laymen or even people in this place are some sort of a mystic, cabbalistic thing which defies any sort of an attempt to find an answer. But I suggest that this is one of the most urgent problems facing the Parliament. As recently as a few months ago the oil tanker drivers dispute caused great disruption, especially in the city of Sydney. This dispute was squarely based on the failure to solve the Moore v Doyle problem. Two unions were calling themselves the same name, one a branch of the other, one with State registration and the other with Federal registration, and each claimed to cover a certain body of workers. The officials of each of these unions were at arm's length and the public were the meat in the sandwich. I hope that at least in the discussion on this Bill the Opposition will face up responsibly to this problem of making a start to do what it can within the limitations of the Federal-State system to solve this problem. 
It was mentioned at the Australian Constitution Convention. I think that there are people, especially people who have had something to do with these matters in the legal world, who are seized of the problem. It may have become an obsession with me because I was involved in the Moore v Doyle case. I acted for one of the parties. The case brought to a head a problem with which I had been confronted and with which practitioners in the industrial field had been confronted over the years. It was not a new problem. It was a judgment which highlighted this problem and in which the Court took it upon itself to draw the urgency of the problem to the attention of the legislature. The Court was composed of some judges who had acted in cases over the years when they were at the bar and who had had the problem brought to their attention, especially  Mr Justice  Kerr who is now the Chief Justice of New South Wales and who had been in a number of cases involving just this problem. It is a problem which has festered over the years. It does not ordinarily come to the attention of the general public except in a most dramatic way when we get the flare up of the most absurd anti-social type of strike which we got in the oil tanker drivers dispute where nobody could win and the only ones penalised were the public. 
I trust that in considering the amendments which are to be put before the Senate at least we will approach this aspect of the matter in some sort of ecumenical spirit and that some start will be made in solving the problems posed by the Moore v Doyle case. I do not think that I am called upon to say anything at length now. This is essentially a matter which should be considered quietly and dispassionately at the Committee stage. I hope that the tone and the spirit which was lauched by the Opposition spokesman on industrial matters, the honourable member for. Wannon,  Mr Malcom  Fraser, will be continued here and that we will avoid the heat, the name calling and the abuse which seem to characterise most debates on this subect. I am not suggesting for one moment that our slate in this matter is completely clean. I appeal to speakers who will contribute from this side of the chamber to approach the discussion of this matter in as calm, deliberative and dispassionate a way as they can. 
When I spoke during the second reading debate on this Bill I mentioned the restrained tone that had been adopted by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, who is the spokesman for the Opposition on industrial matters, when he spoke in the debate on this Bill in the other place. I expressed the hope that a similar spirit would be evidenced in the debate here. We all know that  Senator Greenwood  is an excitable man and a man who argues - 
I am appealing at this stage to our own side as well as to the other side of the chamber to conduct the debate on this matter in as calm a tone as possible. Let us examine the proposition that has just been advanced by  Senator Greenwood.  He is suggesting that the clause the Government has proposed will in some way open the door for outrageous anti-social conduct on the part of union officials, shop stewards and so on, and that there will be some sort of complication in ultimate criminal proceedings if the clause gets through. Is this what we are talking about? What is this Bill about? I firmly believe that this Bill has been mulled over and carefully thought over. It is the product of the experience of a man who probably knows as much about industrial relations in this country as anybody I can think of. I am referring to the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron). 
Well, I am glad he is here. 
Opposition senators interjecting- 
It is always a little more difficult after dinner than it is before dinner to have a calm debate. Nonetheless, I am appealing to honourable senators to appreciate that the question of industrial relations is a very serious one. It is not a matter that is easy of solution. It is a matter that we are doing our best to solve, and we welcome the help of the honourable senator. In the House of Representatives it appeared, on my reading of the debate, that the diplomatic gifts of the Minister for Labour had produced some sort of result in the way of co-operation from the Opposition. I had hoped for that sort of co-operation here, and until now I believed that we would get it. I do not abandon that hope yet. 
I do not know who is responsible for this amendment, but my comment on it is that it is a sort of pettifogging lawyer's amendment. It seems to me that if the amendment were carried it would have almost no different effect from the effect sought in the clause which the Opposition seeks to amend. I have looked at the words of our Bill and at the words of the amendment. I see that the words 'in an industrial establishment' are omitted by the amendment. This seems to me to be something which limits the limitations that we are seeking to impose on the activities of union officials and union stewards. The words 'or impliedly' also are omitted by the amendment. I do not know what  Senator Greenwood  has had to do with this amendment - 
Yes. I can not see how that makes it more difficult for union officials to act anti-socially, as the honourable senator seems to think they will act. What is his fear? 
What is the honourable senator about when he says the words 'in an industrial establishment'? 
In other words, the honourable senator is attempting to help us. He thinks that we are imposing an unnecessary limitation. He has confidence in the way that union officials - 
I appreciate what the honourable senator is saying. He is suggesting that we should make this a more libertarian proposition by omitting those words. Well, we do not fear that we have been insufficiently libertarian in the way that we have formulated this clause. We appreciate the honourable senator's concern, but we feel that it is unnecessary. I refer now to the Opposition's proposition that the words 'or impliedly' should be omitted from this clause. We have confidence, as I think  Senator Greenwood  mostly has, in the powers of the courts of this country and in their capacity to construe statutes. We feel that the omission of the words 'or impliedly' would not give any greater safeguards. 
In brief, our reaction to the amendment is that it is a lawyer's amendment; it is an amendment to provide more abundant precaution; and it is not really necessary. If the Opposition accepts the sincerity and serious intent of the Minister for Labor to solve the problems that he has set out to solve- there was great confirmation from Opposition spokesmen in the other House that they did accept that intention on the part of the Minister for Labour- we feel that this amendment is totally unnecessary. We do not make a big thing of it, but I think the amendment implies a mistrustin this ecumenical mood I hesitate to use the word 'paranoia'- of the pure intentions of our Minister which we consider to be completely unjustified. 
I was going to suggest that nothing more dramatically illustrates the difference between the approach of the Government towards conciliation and arbitration and that of the Opposition than the proposed amendment. I suspect- and I would like to keep this argument in a low key- that running through the Opposition's proposed amendments to this Bill is a belief that conciliation is not really worthwhile and that what industrial law is about is direction. It is telling people what they should do rather than promoting contending parties to get together to settle their differences. 

 Senator Greenwood referred to our proposed amendment as being a somewhat negative expression. I suggest that all the negativism is on his side. Let us look at the existing state of the law- that is the law that became the law after the Opposition, which was then in government, had applied its collective wisdom to the problems of settling industrial disputes and had come up in June of last year with a proposition which I shall outline to the Committee. I remind honourable senators that we are talking about agreements negotiated by unions with employers. The then Government inserted in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act a provision- I will not read it all but I will read the part which is relevant to our suggestion for this amendment- which stated: ( 1 .) If, before an industrial dispute has been referred to arbitration in accordance with this Act, the parties to the dispute or any of them reach agreement on terms for the settlement on all or any of the matters in dispute, they may either- 
make a memorandum of terms agreed on or request a Conciliation Commissioner to certify the memorandum; or 
request a Conciliation Commissioner to make an award or order giving effect to their agreement, and, subject to this section, the Conciliation Commissioner may, by order to which a copy of the memorandum is attached, certify the memorandum or make an award or order accordingly. 
This is the matter which is relevant to what we are discussing tonight. The provision continued: (2.) A Conciliation Commissioner shall refuse to certify a memorandum or make an award or order in accordance with this section if he is of the opinion that- 
the terms are not in settlement of an industrial dispute; 
any of the terms is a term that the Commission does not have power to include in an award; or 
This is the one we are specifically considering- 
it is not in the public interest that he should certify the memorandum or make the award or order. 
We have considered this, and in our opinion the stress in industrial relations should be on the avoidance of litigation. It should be on an attempt by employers and employees to get together. These are the people who know their differences and their problems. We accept the fact that traditionally there has been an umpire, that there has been a Conciliation and Arbitration Court or Commission, whatever it has been called down the years. But fundamentally 90 per cent or probably more of the disputes between employers and employees have been settled. If this were not so the life of our society would have ground to a halt. If every little dispute between an employer and an employee had to be settled by a decision of lawyers we would not have enough lawyers in the community to decide the questions. We would be consumed in litigation. 
The essence of our approach to the matter is that when there are disputes- and it is in the nature of things, no matter what the Opposition may say, that there will be disputes- we should strive to have machinery which will bring the parties together as quickly as possible, without the framework of inflexibility which was imposed on these matters by the legislation introduced by the then Liberal Government last year, which ridiculously separated conciliation from arbitration on the principle that they were 2 totally separate functions instead of 2 closely related matters. This attitude has led to grave difficulties which have been pointed out by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in another place and on which I need not elaborate here. 
When we come to the consideration of the clause under discussion we find that what is suggested by the Opposition is that the process of negotiation should be made difficult. It is really something that they frown on. So they would replace our words contained in the clause with words which would require that the agreement stand unless a commissioner shall certify that it is not in the public interest. That is what they suggest. They oppose our proposition that there should be a necessity to show a major interference with the public interest. 
-A major detriment, yes. We say that the parties should be encouraged to get together and that if they do get together- as, by the way,  Senator, they  get together throughout the business community, and this is something we will have to consider when other legislation such as the restrictive trade practices legislation - 
-Senator, let us in the ecumenical spirit of tonight consider the implications of what I have just said. In the sphere of business people get together, and in that context let us consider your proposition. I am sure that within the next few weeks we will hear from the honourable senator and from other senators on his side of the chamber that when the parties who arrange business deals get together it is immoral and it is not in the public interest that the state should intervene. Would I be surprised if we heard that sort of thing from the honourable senator? I do not want a preview, but I can imagine that this is the sort of thing that we will be hearing. We will be told by honourable senators opposite that these are the people who know best how to order society, talk together and reach their mutual arrangements. We will be told that it is an impertinence for people who know so little about business as members of Labor governments to intervene in their affairs. 
But the honourable senator is suggesting here that when employers and employees get together- these are the people who know best what are their problems and their differences- and reach an agreement, there should be an overriding power to intervene on behalf of the - 
-But there is a subtle difference. There is a very subtle difference in the sort of emphasis that the honourable senator requires. When it comes to the Trade Practices Act the honourable senator will be arguing, I am sure, for the sacredness of the private agreement. But when we come to the legislation under discussion he objects to our proposition that the agreement should stand unless there is a major detriment. In all seriousness,  Senator, I  understand that in politics consistency, logical impermeability- I am lost for wordscannot always be achieved. I do not ask, I really do not insist- it would not matter if I did- that we should have logical consistency. I ask the honourable senator to consider his position over the next few weeks during which I am sure we will be treated to all sorts of forensic extravagance in an endeavour to reconcile his line on this Bill with the line which I assume we will hear from him on legislation such as the Trade Practices Bill. I submit that our attitude in this Billthat agreements freely reached between employer and employee should, as far as possible, be unimpeded - 
-The honourable senator and I are both dedicated to the public interest; we would not be here if we were not. But it is in the nature of things that we have different views of the public interest. We try, as far as we can, to safeguard the public interest in legislation. However, we find that when the honourable senator talks about the people to whom he feels tender his notion of the public interest is a little different from the attitude that we have towards people to whom we may feel a little tender. I am sure that that observation does not pass the honourable senator's comprehension. If employers and employees get together and reach agreement so that we do not have strikes and everybody is happy, there should not be this major impediment to their agreement that the Opposition suggests in this amendment. I leave the matter at that. 
Last night when we were discussing this clause of the Bill  Senator Greenwood  complained that I had introduced an irrelevant consideration when I compared his attitude on this Bill to the attitude that I anticipate he will take to the Trade Practices Bill which we expect will come before the Senate in the next week or so. If  Senator Greenwood  will bear with me, I think that I can prove to him that there is an inconsistency between the attitude that he takes on this clause of the Bill and the attitude that he is about to take to the amalgamation clauses in this Bill. In respect of the amalgamation clauses, I understand that  Senator Greenwood  and those who support him insist that a majority of members should vote in a ballot before the agreement can take place. 
-We will. 
In all seriousness, I cannot understand why the honourable senator should object to being asked to be consistent and to have some sort of theme and some sort of philosophy. 
I think anything that  Senator Webster  contributes on a subject like this should be ignored completely. 
-One of the advantages of the Westminister system is that the consideration of a question like this can have the benefit of the mind of men like  Senator Cavanagh,  men who have been experienced in trade union matters and who have actually been in the workshops and who know the realities of life and can bring these considerations to bear on such questions. I am not suggesting that a man like  Senator Greenwood  with his legal experience and his mental subtleties is not capable of contributing something to this question. But I suggest that he has missed the point when he says, as he did in answer to my proposition, that there was some sort of contradiction in his attitude towards union democracy on the question of amalgamations and union democracy on the question that we are considering. As I understand him he said amalgamation is a serious matter. 
Fundamental? Is  Senator Greenwood  suggesting that questions of wages and conditions are less fundamental than questions of amalgamation? In my experience- and I have had some- the ordinary man regards wages and conditions as more important than amalgamation with another union. If  Senator Greenwood  considers that on the matter of amalgamation we should have these rigorous standards of hearing the voice of the rank and file, I really do not see how he can refuse that sort of method of determining the will of the members of a union in what I think they regard as even more fundamental things. There is nothing more fundamental to the ordinary man than how much money a week he gets and how many hours a week he works. And if, as sometimes happens, the officials of his union presume to make agreements behind his back, I think he is more sorely wounded than he would be if an amalgamation were wrought without his being consulted. I suggest that  Senator Greenwood  is caught in a fundamental contradiction here; and if he insists that there should be this ultimate democracy in the matter of amalgamation, I think he is caught with the proposition that the members should also be consulted about what to them is a much more important thing: That is, an agreement about their wages and conditions. I invite him as a man of consummate logic to admit that this is the truth of the matter. 
I notice that  Senator Greenwood  is chuckling, but I think he is caught in a logical dilemma. We will come to the question of amalgamation a little later.  Senator Greenwood  said earlier that he would prefer that we should not mention amalgamation; but we will come to that and he will be advocating then, according to amendments that have been circulated, that there should be the most rigorous democratic procedures involved in deciding whether members of one union should amalgamate with members of another union. In this matter- a matter which I suggest goes to the heart of unionism- is the query: 'What are we going to get for our labour, under what sort of conditions are we going to work?' He thinks it is enough that the committee of management should certify. With all respect to  Senator Greenwood,  I feel that he is caught in some sort of a contradiction there. I would like to hear him resolve that later in this debate. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Greenwood's amendment)  be left out. 
Is the Minister for the Media aware that foreign film distributors, particularly those of the United States, are mounting an expensive campaign to try to prevent the Government from introducing a system of pool buying of overseas films and television series by Australian companies? Is he also aware that they are being aided and abetted by the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations? Has this latter group engaged a company called Cramb Tariff Services Pty Ltd to lobby members of this Parliament on a no-expenses-spared basis to try to prevent the pool buying? ls it also true that if this pool system is not introduced Australian commercial television stations will have to continue to pay high prices for overseas programs, thus providing them with an excuse for not having more money available for local production? 
The amendment that is merely intended to clarify the motion has been the subject of a very disingenuous explanation by 

 Senator Greenwood. I suggest that his real purpose is to prevent any tendency on the part of union officials entering premises to do anything in the nature of the recruitment of non-unionists. I point out to him that this limitation on the right of a union official entering premises, confining him to dealing with members of his organisation, suffers from, a great logical flaw, and it is this: The amendment fails to recognise that the purpose of the right of entry is, as stated in the amendment, to ensure observance of the award. At times awards regulate the wages and conditions of an employee in an industry irrespective of whether he is a member of an organisation. It is therefore quite illogical to confine the right of a union official entering premises merely to people who are members of his organisation. This right should be totally unimpeded. I repeat what I said at the outset: The real purpose behind the amendment is to segregate people who are not members of a union from union officials who might be able to persuade them that it is in their interests to join the union. 
I am not quite sure whether the Opposition quite understands the import of its proposed amendment.  Senator Greenwood  has adopted a curious attitude towards certified agreements. In debates on earlier sections of the Act in which we discussed amendments proposed by the Government  Senator Greenwood  sought to place barriers in the way of the making of agreements and the certification of agreements. It will be recalled that in an earlier debate he objected to the Government's general proposition that these agreements should be made and certified provided that they did not create any major detriment to the public interest. That, to the Opposition and especially to  Senator Greenwood,  seemed to be altogether too permissive an attitude towards certified agreements and he insisted that they had to meet the test of being in the public interest before they could qualify for certification. But now he takes the attitude in regard to their duration that whilst admitting that there should be a different period they should be more or less on an equal footing to awards, that is, that they should continue in operation after they have expired. We believe that this would have the purpose of providing a disincentive to the renegotiation of agreements and would leave out-of-date agreements in force, which would be a potential source of industrial trouble. 
The purpose of our amendment in paragraph (b) is to encourage the parties to renegotiate certified agreements before their period of operation expires. We believe that the effect of the Opposition's amendment will be to nullify this purpose. This is the reason why paragraph (b) is in our amendment. I do not know whether that is fully understood by the Opposition. But we believe that it should stand for that purpose. Under our amendment the parties to the certified agreement will advert to the fact that the certified agreement is to expire and they will, we believe, take pains to renegotiate the agreement. For that reason we believe that the provision in the Bill should stand as it is. 
I commend  Senator Little  for a sensible and pragmatic approach to this problem. I wish to comment first on the curiously tortuous logic which we have heard from  Senator Greenwood  on this question of the need for additional judges. I remind him that section 104 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, as it stood before amendments were introduced by the then Attorney-General on behalf of the then Government last year, read: 
1 ) Subject to this Act. the jurisdiction of the Court shall be exercised by not less than two Judges. 
The amendment to that section, sponsored by  Senator Greenwood,  altered 'two' to 'three'. The next amendment to be moved by  Senator Greenwood  to this Bill seeks to omit an amendment which we are suggesting, namely that in proceedings under section 119, that is, for the imposition of penalties, jurisdiction should be capable of being exercised by one judge, not by three.  Senator Greenwood  proposes to ask the Committee to omit the words 'proceedings under section 119'. In other words, he proposes that it shall be necessary for 3 judges to hear proceedings under section 119. It must be clear that that move will increase the workload of the Industrial Court. He asks us to agree to increase the workload of the Court. 
-Look at the matter logically. The honourable senator is asking that 3 judges hear any applications for penalties. If the honourable senator thinks that there will not be any applications for penalties while we are in government, why does he bother to seek the removal of the words 'proceedings under section 119'? 
-This is one of those pious expressions of hope which are not a real substitute for logic.  Senator Wright  who I am sorry to see has left the chamber, asked us in the rather eccentric prose to which he resorts when his overheated temperament causes him to get a little excited to give him a word of averment. I take it that what he meant by that was that we should provide some evidence of the need to increase the membership of the Court. Apart from the fact that  Senator Greenwood  is insisting that 3 judges should sit in proceedings under section 1 19 of the Act, there is the fact that several of the judges of this court are engaged, more or less permanently, on other duties. There is  Mr Justice  Woodward who is engaged on an investigation into Aboriginal land rights. There is  Mr Justice  Nimmo who has been loaned to Fiji to help set up its Supreme Court. These are relatively new departures. There is  Mr Justice  Eggleston who is more or less permanently engaged on the Trade Practices Tribunal. I do not want to embarrass the other member of the court by naming him, but it is well known that there is another justice of this court whose work capacity is gravely affected by illness. We believe that this court already has been depleted in its strength and that it is reasonable to bring it up to strength. I am sorry that  Senator Wright  is not here to hear this explanation. He may not be familiar with the workings of this court. He may not know these facts. I am sure that if he did know them he would agree that these facts alone constitute sufficient reason for increasing the strength of the court. 
The example that  Senator Greenwood  gave, without citing any figures, that this court is not overworked, that it is a court, I think he said, whose hours of work would be the envy of most Australians is, I feel, rather unworthy of him. As  Senator Little  justly said, it is not a true yardstick by which to judge the work of this court. This court has to deal with very complex matters, matters which take a long time to resolve. At the risk of being tedious the case of Moore and Doyle, to which I have often referred, is I think an example of the work with which this court is concerned. It is serious, complex legal work in which there is a need to weigh complicated facts and to wade through conflicting legal precepts. I make bold to suggest- I know this from my personal knowledge- that the time spent out of court in writing judgments on cases that may have occupied court for two or three weeks, such as the Moore and Doyle case did, accounts for infinitely more time than the time which is apparently spent in court itself. I do not think that this is an under-worked court. The tasks it takes on are of vital significance to the community and to the industrial peace of the community, to which the Opposition claims it is so dedicated. We are short-changing ourselves and the community generally if we take a miserable attitude towards the question of bringing this court up to the desirable strength. I think that the amendment moved by  Senator Little  will just about satisfy the requirements of this court. 
As  Senator Cavanagh  has said, there was never any intention on the part of this Government to do the dire things that  Senator Wright  feared, such as stacking the court in order to achieve some ulterior social objectives. Even though ideally we would have liked more freedom of action in the number of judges that we could appoint, I firmly believe that if the amendment sponsored by  Senator Little  is adopted by the Senate we will have gone a long way towards satisfying the pressing need for more judges in this court. 
There is something rather odd about this amendment from the Opposition. The Opposition is seeking to retain the provision in the Act whereby proceedings under section 119 could be heard only by 3 judges.  Senator Greenwood  interjected during the discussion of the previous amendments with the jibe that under this Government there would be no prosecutions of unions. 
-Let us for the sake of argument on this clause accept that as a statement of fact- just as an hypothesis. What you are saying means that the majority of cases which will be dealt with- this is on your argument- by the Court under section 1 1 9 will be for breaches of awards by employers. Under section 1 19 such breaches may actually be dealt with by a magistrate in a court of summary jurisdiction. Is it not absurd to suggest that a power that can be so exercised must, if exercised by the court, be exercised by 3 judges, especially as  Senator Greenwood  is so concerned about the way in which the time of these judges will be spent? I suggest that throughout the debate on this Bill there has been no theme and no philosophy uniting the amendments proposed by the Opposition in relation to one clause as against another clause. There is no consistency. In fact there is a total opposition of philosophy between the considerations applied to one clause and those applied to another. Here we have a couple of clauses cheek by jowl on which the Opposition takes, in my submission, totally contradictory positions. The amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood  is completely unjustified. 
Once again it is possible to feel some sympathy with the lack of understanding of industrial matters which leads the Opposition into taking up a position in these matters which is inconsistent with the stand that it has taken in relation to other clauses. I do not know whether  Senator Greenwood  is aware, but in the other place when a debate was being conducted on a proposed amendment to section 1 10 of the Act, the Opposition insisted that it should be the Minister for Labour and not the AttorneyGeneral who should carry the burden of representing the public interest in these matters. Surely it is the most natural thing in the world that the Minister who carries the burden of industry, of labour, should be the man who should be responsible in these matters. As I have said, in regard to a proposed amendment to section 1 10 of the Act, which refers to who should approach the Commission for an interpretation of an award, the Opposition in the other place insisted that it should be the Minister for Labour. 
-Why do you allow the Minister for Labour a guernsey anywhere? If this is an Act which should be administered by the Attorney-General, and if the Attorney-General is the man who should represent the public interest, why do you allow the Minister for Labour to appear anywhere in section 1 10? What is different about that? 
Is it a judicial exercise? Is it suggested that every time the Attorney-General appears in the public interest, he appears personally? Surely the Minister for Labour is just as entitled to brief counsel as is the Attorney-General. 
-With respect, I think that this is pettifogging. We are dealing with industrial realities, not with legal niceties. It is apparent to us that if the Minister for Labour is administering this Act, he should be the man who throughout carries the heat and burden of the day and the responsi bility for each of these sections. We think it is inconsistent and unreal for the Opposition to insist that the AttorneyGeneral should be the man, instead of the Minister for Labour, who carries that responsibility. 
Here again we are seeing this inconsistency that runs right through the Opposition's amendments. The Opposition's attitude to this would continue the present anomalous situation in which decisions of the Commonwealth Industrial Court on inquiries into amalgamation ballots would be appealable to the High Court while decisions of the Commonwealth Industrial Court on registration and deregistration of organisations under Part VIII of the Act, which also involve questions of property and assets, and decisions on inquiries into irregularities in union elections under Part IX of the Act would not be appealable. The Bill as framed by the Government has the merit of consistency which I submit is considerable merit. The decisions of the Industrial Court in both of these matters are, I think  Senator Greenwood  would agree, concerned mostly with questions of fact; they are not high questions of law which should engage the attention of the High Court. In such circumstances it is difficult to justify appeals to the highest court in the land. We have a consistent pattern in the matter of appeals running right through the Bill whereas  Senator Greenwood  once again is inconsistent. 
Question put: 
That clause 49 stand as printed. 
An individual may appear before the Commonwealth Industrial Court now without seeking leave to appear. The disqualification arises only if he seeks to represent his organisation. This strikes me as patently absurd. Here we have a court specifically created for the consideration of problems concerned with trade unions. The only person who has to seek leave to appear is an officer of one of those organisations. I have been in the Industrial Court and I have seen able, competent trade union officials stand up and ask for leave. I have seen some of them humiliated. As a matter of fact, I have part of a transcript here which I propose to read to the Committee in order to highlight the sort of indignity which I believe representatives of trade unions should be spared. I think this matter involved the dispute about the Atlantean buses in Sydney. A  Mr Ludeke,  Queens Counsel, who has since been appointed to the Bench- in fact he sat on the recent medical tribunal case- announced his appearance. He said: 
I appear in this matter for the claimant.  Mr J.  Dey appears with me. 

 Mr Dey was his junior. Chief Judge Spicer said: 
Are there any other appearances? 

 Mr P. Ryan, the official of the union, said: 
If Your Honours please, I appear on behalf of the union as secretary of the union and  Mr J.  Coulthart as an organiser of the union. 
One of the other judges,  Mr Justice  Dunphy, said: 
You first of all seek leave to appear? 

 Mr Ryan: Yes. 
Dunphy, J.: You did not say that. 

 Mr Ryan: If I omitted the words 'I seek leave to appear' it is because I have not appeared before a Tribunal of this nature before, Your Honour. 
Dunphy, J.: You have no right to have a junior. 

 Mr Ryan: It is a matter for Your Honours. If I could comment here, I would make the comment ifI am allowed to thatI do not regard  Mr Coulthart  as junior to myself. 

 Mr Coulthart happened to be the New South Wales Secretary of the union and Federal  president.  He had peculiar knowledge of the circumstances of the case. These two reputable, competent citizens had to demean themselves by asking permission of the Court to appear and assist the Court in a matter in which they knew much more than any counsel whom they might have briefed. This strikes me as a matter which is not calculated to build up the confidence of the unions in this Court. It is an obstacle which we believe should be removed as soon as possible. 
If the principle espoused by  Senator Wright  was' perfectly clear to him, it was not always clear to those who sit or sat on the same side of politics as  Senator Wright.  I quote, for his edification, a contribution to a debate in 1934. 
-Yes, 1934. The debate was o.n this subject- arbitration. 

 Senator JAMES McCLELLANDArbitration is as  old  as 1 934. Wait for it. I warn you not to be too brash about this. In 1934 the power of ministerial appointment of inspectors was first introduced by what was then 'known as the 
United Australia Party. I am sure  Senator Greenwood  finds that title sacred and is not affronted in any way by the fact that that was a name which his predecessors adopted as long ago as 1934. Let me read the words which bear on the subject which we are discussing today. They are:   . . it is desirable that the widest area of choice should be open to the Government in order that someone of very definite industrial experience and knowledge may be appointed. If that be so, it is undesirable that the appointment should be restricted, as it would be under the terms of the Act as it stands, to those who are already within the Public Service . . . The Government definitely believes that it has a responsibility in relation to the enforcement of awards, particularly in the case of some awards in respect of industries that are not in themselves highly organised from an industrial point of view. 
They were the words of a distinguished AttorneyGeneral, a predecessor of  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Murphy,  a man who was known as  Mr Menzies.  To be acused of living in the past when one invokes the name of Menzies, is an odd reproach to fall from honourable senators opposite. They have had nothing like him since. It appears unlikely that they ever will. At least on a subject such as this he was able to bring his legal mind to bear on the subject and to espouse exactly what we are espousing today. 
I cannot avoid the opportunity of a little ironical aside as to the sincerity of honourable senators on the other side of the chamber about the imposition of penalties.  Senator Greenwood  has just stated that section 153a, which clause 62 seeks to remove from the Act, is an essential part of the machinery of the imposition of penalties. 'After all if you are going to pursue the resources of an organisation', he would say, 'you would have to know where its money is'. I suppose that was an urgent consideration of the Government of which  Senator Greenwood  was a member. I want to draw  Senator Greenwood's  attention to an important part of the Bill that was assented to on 2 June 1972, which says: 
An organisation shall, as prescribed, lodge with the Registrar 
the prescribed particulars of financial institutions with which deposits of moneys of the organisation or of a branch of the organisation have been made and the prescribed  particlars  in relation to those deposits . . . 
The previous Government, which was so serious about having full powers to impose penalties, never bothered to prescribe any particulars by regulation. So this section always has been inoperative. 
I am afraid that  Senator Hannan  's obsession- it cannot be called anything less than obsession- with the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union is not based on any principled or consistent objection to amalgamation as such but on his notion that the creation of this amalgamated body represents a vast strengthening of what he would regard as a communist dominated organisation. 
I would like to quote on that not my opinion but the opinion of the then Minister for Labour,  Mr Lynch. 
I think it might weigh a little more with  Senator Greenwood.  It might seem to be a more objective and a more disinterested opinion than those voiced on this side of the House. On 2 March 1972  Mr Lynch,  in a very instructive speech which I commend to all senators opposite in case they have not read it recently, had this to say on this very point: 
On the third point, that the amalgamation will provide a large communist dominated organisation, I simply say that the information at my disposal from a wide variety of sources does not confirm this. My information is that communists of one type or another would be a decided minority on the Federal council of the amalgamated unions. 

 Senator Hannan or  Senator Greenwood  may have better sources of information than those that were available to the then Minister for Labour. If so I should think that we should have been told something about these sources of information. 
-Senator, it is also interesting to look back at various other statements that were being made about the time when the amalgamation of those bodies that ultimately formed the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union was coming to fruition and in particular to a statement made on 24 February 1972 by the National  President  of the Metal Trades Industry Association, a  Mr Morgan,  speaking at the conclusion of a meeting of the Metal Trades Industry Association National Executive. He said that his association raised no objection to the amalgamation of metal trades unions and it was his intention to convey that information to  Mr Lynch,  the Minister for Labour. He went on to say: 
Far from objecting to the amalgamation, the MTIA - 
That is the employer organisation in the metal trades industry- sees many practical advantages for industrial relations in the metal trades industry. The reduction in the number of unions with which the MTIA and its members have to deal is a significant advantage. Another is that we can look forward to the elimination of costly demarcation disputes. 
-These were the opinions of those on the employer and Liberal Government side as to the likely effects of amalgamation. They saw nothing to object to. In fact,  Mr Lynch  's speech is so detailed and so instructive, and it deals so damningly with and refutes most of the points which have been made by  Senator Hannan  that I really think it would be a good idea if the speech were incorporated in 
Hansard, especially the section from page 7 to the end where  Mr Lynch  sets out in elaborate detail the steps which had been taken over a great number of years by the various bodies which finally amalgamated.  Mr Lynch  showed quite clearly that far from being some little conspiracy foisted on the great mass of the members of these unions by a few authoritarian union leaders there was a long and carefully drawn out series of negotiations about which the members were fully informed.  Senator Hannan  has made much of the fact that he considers that a small percentage of the members of each of those unions actually voted on the amalgamation proceedings. This also is analysed by  Mr Lynch  who pointed out the percentage of members of the 3 unions who voted in the ballots. In the Amalgamated Engineering Union 86 per cent of the voters favoured amalgamation, as did 73 per cent of the Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society and 70 per cent of the Sheetmetal Working Union. The percentage of the members of the unions who voted were: AEU, 9 per cent; Boilermakers and Blacksmiths Society 40 per cent; and Sheetmetal Working Union 36 per cent. 
I can see from the expression on  Senator Greenwood's  face that he thinks that there is something very damning to our case in the fact the only 9 per cent of the members of the Amalgamated Engineering Union voted. However, I point out to him- this point was made by  Mr Lynch-  that there was no requirement under the law for the AEU to hold a ballot on the matter at all. Under the provisions of the Act as it then was the host union which was the AEU- that is, the union which was not seeking deregistration- was under no obligation to hold a ballot at all.  Mr Lynch  points out in great detail that the proposition that most people who do not vote in a ballot like that can be taken to be against the proposal has no validity whatsoever. On the contrary, the more likely conclusion to be reached about those not voting is that they are acquiescent or that they do not feel strongly about the matter. 
-That is not a rule of law,  Senator Hannan,  but it is as likely an inference as anything I have heard from you on this matter of the silence of the members. A more instructive commentary on the feelings of the rank and file of these unions is that it was always open to any member of these unions throughout the period when amalgamation was being discussed to take proceedings under section 141 of the Act to prevent the amalgamation from taking place. It was only at the very last moment that a couple of members of one of the unions- who were obviously inspired by an outside organisation- made the belated attempt to take these proceedings. When these two gentlemen sought financial assistance for their action under the then regulation 138, the  Deputy  Industrial Registrar refused to grant them financial assistance because he was not satisfied that the proceedings proposed to be taken were in good faith. Apparently the 2 members concerned did not even know why they were taking the action except that they had been told that communists were in the union. It is significant also that the refusal of the  Deputy  Registrar- an independent official unconnected with any party -to grant financial assistance to have their legal fees met aroused such anxiety in the organisation which had induced the 2 members to take the legal action that it induced the Government to change the provisions relating to financial assistance and to take them out of the hands of the independent official and put them in the hands of the Attorney-General. 
Of course, as we have heard from an exAttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood,  he thought that he would be Attorney-General forever. He assured us recently that he fervently believes that the aberration, as he sees it, which put the present Government into office will be corrected at any moment, that he will be back again as AttorneyGeneral and that he will be able to grant assistance to those odd sorts of unionists who really did not know what they were doing. I point out for  Senator Hannan  's enlightenment that one of the 2 men who had taken the action had not worked at this trade for over 12 months. In fact, at the time he was working as an iron worker. I agree fully with  Senator Hannan  's right to criticise the judgment of the court. I hope that when some criticisms of courts fall, as they occasionally do, from the lips of honourable senators on this side that  Senator Hannan  and those who did not dissent from his proposition will bear in mind our right also to criticise the decisions of courts. The honourable senator appears to be mystified as to why the court could make the comments about what had happened and about the facts of these ballots and yet reach the conclusion which it did. The conclusion was: 
We are satisfied that in the case of each union the ballot was conducted in accordance with the union rules applicable to the taking of the ballot and were so found. 
This is a court with which I have had some experience. It has a discretion as to whether to give relief in the light of all the facts which are proved. I have been involved in cases in which technical breaches were established beyond doubt but in which the court still declined to give relief under section 141. This is as it should be. This is a court which, if it is to have any credibility at all, must reach decisions on the substantial merits of the case brought before it and not on some pettifogging, minute detail. This court could not be considered, I suggest respectively to  Senator Hannan,  to consist of judges with any notorious pro-communist bias. After hearing all the evidence and looking at all the surrounding facts the court was satisfied that this was an amalgamation which should not be disturbed, just as that was the opinion of  Mr Lynch  and of  Mr Morgan,  the national  president  of the Metal Trades Industries Association. 
In any event we cannot turn back the clock. This amalgamation is a reality. I appeal to  Senator Hannan  to look at the question of amalgamation of unions in a larger frame than that of his prejudice against the fait accompli of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. I think I could do no better than to commend to him and to all honourable senators on the other side a careful study of the thoughts which were expressed very temperately and sensibly by the then Minister for Labour,  Mr Lynch.  They will find in that statement a refutation of all their fears and very good reasons why they should support the propositions which the Government is advancing in these clauses. 
I freely concede that  Senator Hannan  has always disapproved of the sentiments of  Mr Lynch  to which I have adverted today. We on this side of the chamber know, even though we do not attend the Caucus meetings of the Opposition, that the Opposition has its rabid wing and its moderate wing. What we would like some guidance on at the moment is which tendency is on the up and up at the moment and which is suffering some eclipse. For instance, if I might cite him again,  Mr Lynch  has made statements as to the general approach of his Party and the previous Government on this matter of industrial relations. He said: 
Basically, the philosophy of the current and previous governments in relation to organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is that they are voluntary organisations and the government should not interfere in their affairs unless it can be demonstrated that there are or are likely to be dishonest practices which would prejudice the rights of members or groups of members. 
It could not have been said more eloquently if we had said it ourselves. That is a principle to which we also assent. As I had occasion to remark when discussing this Bill on a previous occasion, we have some grounds for hoping, on reading the speeches in the other place of  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, that this moderate approach is beginning to take root among the Opposition and that it is beginning io dawn on it that union bashing and vilification and wild frenzied talk about anything to do with unions may be unproductive. It certainly is not much of a contribution to industrial peace. It appeared that with a man who has not been notably libertarian, in the view of those on this side of the chamber- I refer to  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, who has never struck us as much of a left winger- we had reason to hope, on reading what he said in the other place, that this moderate view was beginning to be in the ascendancy in the Opposition ranks. Before we complete the debate on this matter I should like some guidance, preferably from an authoritative man such as  Senator Greenwood,  as to whether the principle enunciated by  Mr Lynch  is totally disowned by the Opposition today and whether we can hope that this enlightened view of industrial relations will be the view which will guide the Opposition in the future. 

 Senator MULVIHILL (New South Wales (4.26)- I wish to have information on one other question. It also relates to the wisdom of  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. During his tour of the coalfields he raised the question of union costs. He referred to the extent to which the democractisation of unions could go. He referred also to whether the unions would have to take on additional administrative staff. I am concerned about something along these lines.  Senator Hannan  pointed out that what he called the takeover union- I prefer to call it the host union- had to participate in a ballot and share the cost. The point I am putting in relation to the cost to the union, although it is a big union, was also advanced by  Mr Laurie  Short within the last 12 months in conversation with several of us. It related to a small element of an industry which was to be taken under the large union's wing. There is nothing wrong with that. Better service would have been given. It has been said: Why should the Federated Ironworkers Association, with a big membership, have to have a complete ballot and pay the cost when the small union has the most to gain? 

 Mr Malcolm Fraser realised the point concerning union costs. I wonder what  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Hannan  think about that point. Union costs are becoming astronomical. I feel that  Senator James  McClelland would be on the same wavelength as I am. The Waterside Workers Federation, within the last 2 years, absorbed 600 unionists from Carrington. When the Federal Council of the Waterside Workers Federation and the Newcastle branch officers of the union said that they would have those unionists, the Waterside Workers Federation certainly did not want to have the cost of a ballot of its entire membership when there was to be an increase of only 600. The other point I wish to make is that the small segments that the Federated Ironworkers Association and the Waterside Workers Federation wanted to absorb, were so insignificant that they would not disturb the balance of power within the large unions. I conclude by saying that I take up  Senator Hannan's  offensive remark about the takeover union. In most cases that union is giving out more than it is getting by gaining a minute additional membership. 
With complete sincerity I commend  Senator Rae  and  Senator DrakeBrockman  for the temperate tone that they brought to this very serious debate. I think it heralds a welcome return to civility in the discussion of serious matters in this chamber. Of course, we fully recognise the claim which  Senator DrakeBrockman  advanced for the Opposition parties to be able to criticise in this chamber, traditionally the House of review, propositions that come from the other place. I suggest, however, that it might be wise for both  Senator Drake-Brockman  and the members of the Liberal Party to await a full debate here before committing themselves irrevocably to the amendments that have been circulated. Both  Senator Drake-Brockman  and  Senator Rae  have acknowledged that it is indisputable that the Government has a mandate to introduce a Bill to establish an Australian Schools Commission. It was highlighted in the election speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and it was something about which the Labor Party, while in Opposition, talked for many years. There can be no suggestion that we ambushed the public and have sprung anything on them. That is fully acknowledged by both  Senator Rae  and  Senator Drake-Brockman. 
I am not going to anticipate the Committee debate by delving in too much particularity into the amendments that have been circulated, but it is clear from those amendments and from the tone of the temperate speeches of both honourable senators that both the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party are unreconciled to the philosophy of an Australian Schools Commission which has been so elaborately and fully ventilated by the Australian Labor Party, both in Opposition and in Government. I suggest that the real purpose of the amendments is to so change the structure and composition of the Commission as to turn it into a quite different body from that envisaged by the Government. 
The type of Commission we envisage is set out briefly in clause 4 of the Bill which states that there will be a Commission consisting of a  chairman  and such other members, being not more than eleven, as are prescribed, and that they shall be appointed by the Governor-General. This means, as we all know, that they will be appointed by the Governor-General on the recommendation of the Government. The function of this Commission is best described in the words of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  during the debate in the other place. He said: 
We therefore seek in this legislation to set up an efficient, impartial body to examine, identify and determine needs of students in government and non-government schools at the primary and secondary levels in Australia. 
The role of the Commission, as he stated it and as spelled out in the Bill, is as follows: 
The Commission will advise the Government on the best means of meeting those needs and on the resources which will be required to achieve desired ends. 
We make no apology for the fact that we see as the best means of achieving this end a small commission of 12 people, including the  chairman,  four of whom, including the  chairman,  shall be full time appointments, being appointed by the Minister. It would ill-behove the Opposition to suggest that there is no precedent for this sort of approach. After all, we acknowledge that one of the great trail blazing achievements of the Menzies era- some are so unkind as to say the only one- was the setting up of the Australian Universities Commission. It is well known that there was no hesitation about how it should be constituted. The Government of the day appointed the members of the Australian Universities Commission. In more recent memory, as recently as last year or maybe the year before when the Commission on Advanced Education was set up, once again the Liberal-Country Party Coalition Government did not hesitate to appoint the members of that Commission. We not only rely on that precedent, we think it is also a matter of elementary common sense that a body as important as this should be an appointed body. 
Of course, when we do this we will not by any means exclude the representation of different schools of thought, different tendencies, different philosophies, different interests in the community in the matter of education. It is necessary only to look at the composition of the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission, which I am assured by the Minister for Education will constitute the personnel of the Australian Schools Commission if this Bill is passed, to see that the Government has gone right across the spectrum in constituting its Committee. The Government has not bound itself to any flexible structure in the Bill, as is suggested by  Senator Rae's  proposed amendments. That does not mean that the Government proposes to set up a monolithic body which will represent only one point of view, which will be biased towards the governmental structure and which will take no account of the interests of independent or religious schools. 1 draw attention to the fact that the Government has as  chairman  of the present Committee  Dr Kenneth  McKinnon. He was DirectorGeneral of Education in Papua New Guinea from 1966 to 1973, is 42 years of age and has a great past and a promising future in education. Other members are  Dr Gregory  Hancock, 31 years of age, who was Associate Chief of the New South Wales Education Department's Division of Planning;  Mr David  Bennett, who was a lecturer in Education at Monash University;  Mr Peter  Moyes, Headmaster of Christchurch Grammar School in Western Australiaprobably the leading Anglican school in that State;  Mr A.  D. J. Wood, Principal of St Michael's School for the Handicapped just outside Launceston;  Mr McNamara, President  of the Sydney Federation of Catholic Parents and Friends Associations; Father F. Martin, Director of Catholic Education in Victoria;  Mrs J.  Kirner, who was selected from a panel of names presented by the Australian Council of State School Organisations;  Mr Ray  Costello,  President  of the Queensland Teachers Union;  Mr Albert  Jones, Director of Education in South Australia;  Dr Peter  Tannock, a young man who is Dean of the Faculty of Education in the University of Western Australia; and  Mrs J.  Blackburn, who has been an outstanding member of teachers college staffs in South Australia. 
Seriously I say to honourable senators opposite and to anybody who is interested- that must include most serious people in this countrythat surely the selections that the Government has made already for its Interim Committee, which will ultimately become the permanent Australian Schools Commission, show a most responsible, ecumenical and, I would say, scholarly interest in the subject disclosed by the Minister for Education. I suggest that he has sought far and wide to find not only in terms of qualification but also geographically a wide and representative selection of people to set in motion this new philosophy that we have about how education can be stimulated and set on a new road in this country. If one examines the amendments proposed by the Opposition- and I do not propose to examine them in detail because they will come up for examination at the Committee stage- it will be seen that what the Opposition is seeking to impose- and I am not questioning its sincerity- is an inflexible, schematic arrangement which would certainly not bring any improvement and which I suggest would bring a worsening in the functioning of this overriding supervising body that we have in mind. The Opposition has in mind a  Chairman  appointed on the recommendation of the Minister, and 5 other members of a 1 5 member body, as against our total of 12 members, appointed by the Minister. 
If we include the  Chairman  there will be 15 members. As I read the amendments, the Opposition proposes to enlarge the body that we are suggesting by a total of 3 members. 
-Fourteen other members apart from the  Chairman. 
I suppose that we can allow them the benefit of afterthought. In fact, it is encouraging to think that their minds move from the stage when a Bill is in another place to the stage when it reaches here. In any event, we must not get bogged down in this mathematical debate. I think it is common ground that the Opposition wants three more members on the Commission than we are suggesting. But apart from the appointment of the  Chairman,  which honourable senators opposite are prepared to concede to the Government, they are prepared to concede, on the recommendation of the Minister, the appointment of only 5 other members and of those two are to come from a panel submitted by the Australian Teachers Federation. So in reality the Opposition concedes to the Minister the unfettered right to appoint only the  Chairman  and 3 other members of the Commission. Six members are to come from the Australian Education Council, which is a sort of attempt by the Opposition to assert some suzerainty of the States because the Australian Educational Council is really a body which, as envisaged by the Opposition, is to be dominated by the State Education Ministers. So, in effect, these 6 nominees would be the nominees of the States. 
Then there are to be 3 other members of whom one shall be appointed by the Episcopal Conference, which was adverted to by  Senator Wheeldon  and in respect of which there would be very grave constitutional doubt because, as he has pointed out, it has not been approved by Archbishop Cahill, I think it is, who is the man most qualified to speak in this area. Another member shall be appointed by the National Council of Independent Schools, and another by the Australian Parents Council. In other words, I submit that what is proposed by the Opposition in the place of the Commission that we envisage is an inflexible format guaranteeing, despite the pious words of the proposed amendment which refers to new clause 4B which says that the members are not to be accountable to the bodies which nominated them, that this body will be a warring body of representatives of pressure groups. 
It would be totally unreal to suggest that in the sphere of education there are not pressure groups and that any government which was hoping to be realistic in this field could turn a deaf ear to pressure groups. But that is not suggested in our legislation. We take note of the need for pressure groups to be heard, and in this regard I commend the Opposition to the terms of clauses 16 and 17 of the Bill which provide for advisory boards and committees which would be the sounding boards for the pressure groups. I am not suggesting that 'pressure group' is an evil term or that independent schools, Catholic schools, Quaker schools and calithumpian schools should not have their voices heard by people who are seeking to provide the best educational service. What I am suggesting is that the governing advisory body, the Schools Commission, should not be composed of direct representatives of these pressure groups. 

 Senator JAMES MCCLELLAND No, not at all. With respect, I suggest that  Senator Rae  is taking a very simplistic view of what the Prime Minister said. What we envisage in our Schools Commission is a body of independent experts objectively studying the needs of Australian schools, listening to the pressure groups, being sensitive to the pressure groups, weighing what they get from the pressure groups, but not being accountable to the pressure groups. I suggest, with respect to  Senator Rae,  that he has shown some sort of a suspicion that, despite what he is suggesting by way of amendment, the people who were appointed or elected to the Schools Commission, according to his program, would be in grave danger of being a warring body of representatives of pressure groups who would be constantly going back and feeling accountable to those pressure groups. I think that is acknowledged in what I call, without disrespect, this pious caveat on his amendments. I refer to the proposed amendment which seeks to insert proposed new clause 4B which states: 
A member shall not be responsible to the body or organisation which recommended the member or submitted the member's name in a panel of names. 
I suggest with respect that the insertion of that caveat shows a fairly shrewd recognition by  Senator Rae  or the framers of these amendments that, in effect, that is what these people would be. I suggest that the danger of that is minimised under our scheme. It is not totally eliminated because in this field I do not think it would be possible to claim that anybody could come up with a perfect solution. 
The other respect in which I believe the amendments proposed by the Opposition fall short of achievement what we set out to achieve is in regard to clause 13 (3) (a).  Senator Wheeldon  already has referred in general terms to the shortcomings revealed in the proposed amendment to clause 13 (l)(b), but I should like to advert briefly and without pre-empting the debate on the details at the Committee stage, to the proposed amendment to clause 13 (3) (a) which, I submit, is designed primarily to water down the needs concept which is at the heart of our philosophy in introducing this Bill. With the indulgence of the Senate, I should like to refer in some small detail to this amendment. The amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Rae  is to clause 13 (3). He seeks to omit clause 13 (3) (a) which provides: 
In the exercise of its functions, the Commission shall have regard to such matters as are relevant, including the need for improving primary and secondary educational facilities in Australia and of providing increased and equal opportunities for education in government and non-government schools in Australia, and, in particular, shall have regard to- 
the primary obligation, in relation to education, for governments to provide and maintain government school systems that are of the highest standard and are open, without fees or religious tests, to all children; 
For that provision,  Senator Rae  proposes that we should substitute this proposition: 
Article 26 of the United Nations Charter of Human Rights and in particular the prior right of parents to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children; 
That may seem like a rather over-subtle difference of emphasis. But what is primary in our philosophy and in the philosophy of this Bill is the obligation of governments to provide educational facilities for all people. After that we believe comes the right of parents not to choose those schools but to send their children to other schools. This is not in our view any sort of discrimination based on religious or any other prejudices. We believe that a government has this primary obligation to provide for schools as set out in clause 13 (3) (a)of our Bill. 
If honourable senators look at the moneys that we are distributing, they will see that it cannot be seriously maintained that we are short changing or discriminating against non-government schools. I point out that the interim body has recommended that the Government spend about $700m on schools in Australia in the 1974-75 period- $201 m for non-government schools and $495m for government schools. Anybody who analyses the distribution of the school population between government and non-government schools, I suggest in all sincerity, cannot complain that there is any discrimination implicit in those figures against non-government schools. Nonetheless, we insist that we have a mandate to allege and to support the primary obligation for governments to provide and to maintain government school systems that are of the highest standard and that are open without fees or religious tests to all children. I submit quite seriously that the amendment to clause 13 (3) (a) foreshadowed by the Opposition is an attempt to water down that obligation. As that provision is central to our philosophy, this is an amendment which we must resist. 
That is as much as I wish to say at this stage. I reiterate in closing that I am very pleased at the civility with which the debate has been conducted up to now. I trust that, as this is a matter which is as important as any other matter to the Australian electorate, the debate will continue to be conducted in this spirit. 
by leave- I bring up the report of Estimates Committee A relating to the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1973-74, together with the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. 
-Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to an item on the first page of this morning's 'Canberra Times' reporting the resignation of the Solicitor-General,  Mr Ellicott,  Q.C., and mentioning his intention to practise at the Canberra 
Bar? The newspaper report went on to state that the Attorney-General's Department would welcome the addition of an experienced and competent barrister to the Canberra Bar as it had been unhappy with the situation in Canberra, where it usually has to import counsel to act for the Crown in important cases before the ACT Supreme Court'. Is it not a fact that the AttorneyGeneral's Department has drawn freely on the services of members of the Australian Capital Territory Bar in important cases before the ACT Supreme Court? Will the Attorney-General dissociate himself from the unwarranted slur on the Canberra Bar implicit in the report in the 'Canberra Times'? 
I think it is a fair comment on the various contributions which  Senator Carrick  has made to the debate on this Bill so far, both in the second reading debate and in the debate today, that he has proved himself to be a very selective quoter. It was only after he was jolted by the Minister for the Media  (Senator 
Douglas McClelland) today that he acknowledged that the sentence which followed his quotation in the second reading debate altered the total effect of that quotation. 
-That is the way I heard it. 
-That is my interpretation. There will be a lot about interpretations. Even more importantly, it would be interesting to know why he needed a telegram from  Mrs Ryan  before he acknowledged that the letter, a portion of which he read out the other day, contained a paragraph which was directly in conflict with the paragraph which he chose to take out of context. 
I do not think there can be any doubt about the meaning of these words which we have heard for the first time from  Senator Carrick  today. I understand that what we are talking about, what the argument is about, is the meaning of the word representation'. If we are to have literal High Court interpretations of mandates, such as we had from  Senator Carrick  today and the other day- if we are to have misrepresentation of what I said in the second reading debate, which I shall also demonstrate to  Senator Carrick  and the Senate- it is necessary that we examine the plain meaning of the paragraph which  Senator Carrick  read to the Senate only after his memory was jolted by a telegram. He has this letter in his hand the other day when he chose to omit this paragraph which I shall repeat: 
As you will see from the (2) enclosed copies of past correspondence, our Council has never argued for direct representation. 
-This is the Australian Council of State School Organisations.  Senator Carrick  did not see fit to tell the Senate that until he received a telegram from  Mrs Ryan  suggesting that the whole story should be told to the Senate.  Mrs Ryan  went on to say: 
It is our view that the proposed commission must be a completely independent body, capable of making recommendations on the basis of need alone. We consider that a Commission composed of direct nominees of groups with report back obligations to those groups would not be able to function in this way. 
She then went on to add the paragraph which  Senator Carrick  did read the other day. 
I suggest, senator, that in the first place honesty and completeness required you to read that sentence as well in order that the Senate - 
-Can we have some suggestions from you, senator, instead of your usual absurd abuse? 
-I thank  Senator Rae.  I hasten to assure him that I, at no stage, thought that he was trying to curtail what I was saying. But I thought that this was a more appropriate way of dealing with the subject matter. The point 
I was making was that to be bound to this inflexible system which the amendment moved by the Opposition seeks to impose on the Government is to lay ourselves open to having representatives, in this direct sense, of various organisations that may cease to be representative in any true sense if there is a hiving off of some of the most im portant elements in the organisation such as we see in the case which I have quoted. The argument between us, really, is whether the Commission should be what we seek to make it, which is a flexible body reflecting as widely as possible the views of people across the education spectrum but not consisting of representatives, in the literal sense, of people who represent pressure groups. I do not use the term 'pressure groups' in a pejorative sense. I do not see anything wrong with the existence of pressure groups especially in a field as contentious as education. In any event, whether I saw anything wrong or not they would still exist. But the Opposition by its amendment seeks an inflexible directly representative body which, I suggest, is undesirable from many points of view, among them being that it limits the opportunity for the Government of the day to choose the best people who are offering. It is not suggested that if some people from various groups are excluded their voices will not be heard. If we look at the whole structure of the Bill it will be seen that clause 16 specifically provides for the setting up of advisory boards both in the States and in the Territories which can put the point of view of these people who, the Opposition says, should have every opportunity of putting their position and their arguments. There is no intention on the part of the Government of closing its ears to the blandishments or the arguments of anybody with a point of view to put, but we do not want to have our hands tied. 
In the debate at the second reading stage  Senator Carrick  thought that he saw in what I had done in reading out a list of the present members of the Committee some sort of illogicality or some sort of concession that the Opposition amendments were really the sort of thing we should agree to because, he said, I had argued that they ought to be on the Committee because they are in special categories. He said that with only one exception these people were nominated for categories exactly as the amendment being put forward by the Opposition proposes. He returned to this theme on the second day. The suggestion was- and he went through the list of people on the Committee- that the Goverment had admitted and that I had admitted in stating the qualifications and the backgrounds of these people that the sort of inflexible composition for which he was arguing was the desirable one and it was one that we accepted. I have had a look through this and I am convinced that this is wholly inaccurate and represents a complete misreading of what I said and of the qualifications and the backgrounds of the people at present on the Committee. 
Where, for instance, on the present Committee are the 6 representatives of the Australian Education Council? I cannot find them on the Committee. I can find only one who could fit into that category, and that is a man called Albert Jones. We do not want to be stuck with 6 representatives of the State bureaucracies. We consider that this unnecessarily restricts our field of choice. Of course, we then go to the next suggestion that there should be one representative of the Episcopal Conference of Australia. Again, if we look through the list that I read we see that there are 2 people there who may be put into this categorybut only if being a Roman Catholic fits the bill. The Roman Catholics on this Committee were not nominated by the Episcopal Conference. They are there because the Government in its wisdom wanted to hear the whole of the people from that part of the educational spectrum but it did not want to have its choice limited to the nominations of the Episcopal Conference, quite apart from any constitutional difficulties which might arise under section 1 16 of the Constitution. There is one on the Committe who might be said to speak for the independent schools- that is a  Mr Moyes-  but he is not in any sense a representative of these schools, accountable to them in any way. There is one from the Teachers' Federation- a  Mr Costello-  not two as  Senator Carrick  suggested in his speech. No one can be said to represent the Australian Parents Council. Then come the others. McKinnon does not fit into any of the categories which  Senator Carrick  suggests should be directly represented; the same goes for  Mr Bennett, Mr Wood, Mrs Kirner, Dr Tannock  and  Mrs Blackburn. 
-She is not on the Parents Council, as I understand it. If she is, I will stand corrected. 
If I am wrong about that, I withdraw it. But after examining the list of the Committee people whose names I have read out it is very difficult to find any support for  Senator Carrick  's argument that we had conceded the Opposition's point because, in fact, we had a committee that was almost entirely representative of the categories which he had asked should be represented. Another great contradiction, as I see it, in the argument advanced by  Senator Carrick  the last time he spoke is where he seemed to be suggesting that there was this flexibility in the arrangements which he put forward for which we are contending. For instance, the language which is to be found on page 1 7 1 9 of the daily Hansard of 13 November suggests that he is constantly wanting a discretion to reside in the Minister. For instance, he said: 
The Opposition in the Senate has recognised the desirability of submitting a panel to the Minister from which the Minister may select members. The relevant amendment, as circulated, concerning the teacher organisations says this: 
And it is curious to find that there is no word may' in the amendment but the word 'shall' occurs. A little further down he says: 
I pause here to say that the Opposition envisages not one nominee representative of the teachers, but two. It has put forward a panel of five from which the Minister can accept two. 
But the words of the amendment are quite clear: That the Minister shall accept two from the panel '. So to use an old legal expression,  Senator Carrick  cannot both approbate and reprobate. He cannot suggest that it is wrong of us to ask for ministerial discretion, that it is undemocratic, as  Senator McManus  suggests, to have a selection by the Minister and at the same time to suggest, as he did in the debate the other day, that he is prepared to allow that discretion. As I read the Opposition's amendments, if they are carried the only members of the Commission in relation to whom the Minister would have absolute discretion in the matter of appointment would be the  chairman  and 3 others. Apart from that two would have to be appointed from a panel presented by the Teachers Federation and six would have to be appointed- not 'may' but shall'- on the recommendation of the Australian Education Council. 
-There is no discretion there either, if you read it closely. 
-To what are we referring? 
-' The  Chairman  and 5 other members . . .' 
-Read it more closely. I stick to what I said and I will explain to you why I stick to what I said. It states: 
The members of the Commission shall be appointed as follows: 
the  Chairman  and five other members upon the recommendation of the Minister and of whom two shall be members of teacher organisations selected by the Minister from a panel of not less than S persons' names submitted by the Australian Teachers' Federation and one shall be a person involved in research in relation to education; 
Where is the discretion in the Minister there? It is mandatory upon him to make at least two of those five selections from a panel that is presented to him. There is no discretion in him to appoint any more, I repeat, than the  chairman  and 3 others. Then, two shall be from a panel presented by the Teachers Federation and six on the recommendation of the Australian Education Council- that is, in effect, the State Ministers for Education who must, by definition, dominate that Council; and 3 others, one from the Episcopal Conference, one from the National Council of Independent Schools and one from the Australian Parents Council. The pious reservation contained in the proposed clause 4b is in my respectful submission an acknowledgment by the Opposition that the effect of this manner of appointment would be that we would have a series of direct representatives of pressure groups who would come together on this Commission representing the points of view of their pressure groups and not looking at the subject objectively or in a general way. Otherwise the Opposition would not have considered it necessary to include in its amendment proposed new clause 4b which reads: 
A member shall not be responsible to the body or organisation which recommended the member or submitted the member's name in a panel of names. 
That, I suggest, is a pious expression of hope. If we get a Commission constituted in this way, what we will get in place of what  Senator Carrick  suggests is a collection of Government stooges will be a collection of warring contenders for their own special interests. 
As I said earlier, the Government's performance in its selection of the members of the Interim Committee indicates that it is cognisant of the interests of the various groups across the educational spectrum. There is no desire on the part of the Government, even if we disregard proposed section 16, to exclude the interests of any one of these groups; but the Government says that it does not want to have its hands tied in the way in which the opposition's amendment proposes, because if its hands are tied in that way we will not get the best possible Commission. Certainly we have no objection to panels being put forward by people who are interested. I submit that if we look again at the letter to which we were referring a little earlier we will see that this position is accepted by the organisation that wrote that letter. It says, in effect: 'We are not contending for direct representation. We do, however, claim that we should have a right to put up a panel to you and we suggest that all other groups in the community should put up a panel to you and that you should consider those panels'. The Government will consider those panels, but it does not want to be bound in the inflexible way in which it would be bound if the Opposition's amendment were carried. 
I should like to take the earliest possible opportunity to clear up any confusion that I have created in the mind of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. First of all, I thought I had made it clear that I do not impute any impropriety to belonging to a pressure group. I said that several times. It is in the nature of a pluralist society that we should have pressure groups. Pressure groups are entitled to be heard. At no stage did I say that being a member of a pressure group would disqualify a man or woman from membership of the Schools Commission. At no stage did I say that I disapproved of panels being submitted to the Minister in order to guide him in the selection of members of the Commission. In fact I specifically stated that I thought that is the way the Commission should function and that is the way it would function. I think that the distinction is really to be found in the distinction between the words 'may' and shall'. It is highly instructive that  Senator Carrick  in the debate fell into some confusion himself over these words. 
I believe that panels of experts should be submitted by the various groups- I shall leave out the word 'pressure' if it is offensive- to the Minister. I believe the Minister should consider them and of course that is what he has done in setting up the Committee which at present exists. 
-The interim committee, that is right. I see nothing wrong with this. I see it as the only way in which the commission can function. On the other hand I see nothing dictatorial in the Government's looking at all the talent available in the education field and while paying regard to the desirability of availing itself of expert advice from the panel submitted to it and from the education field at large, reserving the right to choose what it considers the most balanced and competent commission. 
Our object really comes down to this: We are not quarrelling with the idea that everybody's voice should be heard. As I pointed out earlier, the specific purpose of clause 16 of the Bill is to enable the setting up of boards in the various States and Territories in order to put all these views before the Commission which may, if it is elected on the basis that we suggest, not have people representing various groups. Somebody may miss out, but I suggest we will have a much more competent, a much more skilful and a much more expert commission if the Government is entitled in manning this Commission to look across the whole field and not to have its hands tied but of course to be responsible. I suggest that our method of selecting the Commission, allied with what we propose in clause 16 will secure the representation of the ecumenical approach which  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson rightly espouses, but that we will have a better functioning Commission and a Commission more likely to achieve those ends. 
It is interesting to note the way in which the loss of office deepens and sharpens the democratic principles of honourable senators opposite. In a way this is an historic occasion in the Senate because we have heard enunciated a new democratic principle which seems to be that a government should not appoint commissions without making them directly representative, by nomination, of the various groups which will be affected by their decisions. If this is a new principle to which we have to become accustomed from the Opposition I think we are entitled to ask it why it has just discovered it. For instance, throughout its long term of office we had the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Did we see any rush from these people when they were in office to appoint trade unionists, or representatives of the consumers, or representatives of any particular groups to the Australian Broadcasting Commission? If we did I cannot recall it. Then, of course, in the various States we have Commissioners of Railways. I understand that Victoria has three. I do not know quite how many New South Wales has. Is it suggested that one of these commissioners should represent the shunters, another should represent the locomotive engine drivers and another should represent the porters? 
-What is the suggestion- that a commission cannot function or that a commission is not democratic unless the Government abrogates its authority to appoint members to such a commission but goes out and asks the various groups to nominate members who are fit to sit on it? Let me remind honourable senators opposite that the Government which does the appointing is not some tyranny imposed on the community. The government is a government which has been elected in a democratic election and it is entitled to make such decisions. It certainly ignores at its peril the interests of the various groups such as we are discussing here today. Honourable senators opposite can rest assured that we will not be so lacking in political astuteness as to ignore the interests of the various groups for which the Opposition claims to be the democratic spokesmen. 
The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation is another organisation which is similar in its constitution to a commission. Is it suggested that the governing body of the CSIRO should have as its managing directorate representatives of all of the scientific disciplines with which it is concerned? Of course, despite what honourable senators opposite have said, we have one outstanding example of the way in which they acted when they set up a commission in the sphere of education. I am referring to the Universities Commission. No matter what  Senator Carrick  may have said and no matter what  Senator Rae  may have said, there is a startling resemblance between the functions of the Universities Commission and the functions of this Commission. I appeal to no other authority in that regard than to the late  Mr Harold  Holt who, on 2 1 April, delivered the second reading speech in the absence of the then Prime Minister,  Mr Robert  Menzies, whose baby it was but who happened to be sick. 
I commend to all honourable senators the reading of the second reading speech delivered on 2 1 April 1959 by  Mr Harold  Holt. In many ways the words could be almost the words that were used by  Mr Beazley  in the other place in defining the functions of this Commission. This body of senators which has now discovered this new democratic principle that all commissions must be chosen from people nominated from various groups did not see fit to adopt that principle when it was setting up the body which is nearest in its functions to the one we are talking about today. So they are belated converts to this notion, and I suggest that their conversion has nothing to do with principle but everything to do with political expediency. There is just one other matter to which I would like to advert. 
-That is a childish analogy, and I suggest that if the honourable senator wishes to take part in this debate he would assist us by being here throughout the debate so that he would spare himself such fatuous interjections. I want to advert now to the proposition advanced by  Senator Rae  both when he was on his feet and by way of interjection to  Senator Milliner,  namely, that somehow or other our argument is shot down in flames by the fact that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has set up in the Australian Capital Territory a schools authority consisting of people nominated by groups. To quote  Senator Rae-  I think I took him down correctly- he said: 'If it is good enough for Canberra, it is good enough for Australia'. I remind him of a very similar utterance which was made by a very prominent member of  President  Eisenhower's Cabinet, a  Mr Wilson,  who had previously been  president  of the General Motors company. He had enunciated the startling principle that what is good for General Motors is good enough for the United States of America. The simple answer in both instances is that General Motors is not the United States of America and the Australian Capital Territory is not Australia. 
We are not suggesting that under no circumstances should any body be constituted in the way in which the Opposition is suggesting a schools commission should be constituted. In a local area like the Australian Capital Territory that may be the appropriate method, but the very fact that at the grass roots there are organisations charged with administering local educational needs constitutes a very good reason why that sort of constitution of the overriding body- the Schools Commission- should not be done in the same way. If at the grass roots level we have direct representatives from the various interested groups, why do we need at the summit a body constituted in exactly the same way? I suggest that this sort of analogy is a very oversimple one, and that far from being illogical we are being completely consistent in accepting the fact that at that level the sort of body that  Mr Beazley  set up is appropriate but at the level of the summit it is not appropriate because there we want to take advantage of the best that is offering in the entire country. As I said before, we do not wish to have our hands tied by having dictated to us which representatives, which nominees, shall be on this Commission. For that reason, I find the amendment moved by  Senator McManus  even more inappropriate than the amendment moved by  Senator Rae.  It is subject to the same vice. That is that it represents an attempt to hamstring the Government. I repeat that there is nothing dogmatic, doctrinaire or authoritarian about a Government which has been elected by the people exercising its power by appointing a Commission as important as this. As it has showed by its record it does not ride roughshod over the groups and interests which the Opposition wants directly represented. 
I want to make a very short contribution to this debate and that is to say that if the vast mass of listeners to whom  Senator Withers  directed his propagandist remarks could see as well as hear what goes on in this chamber they would laugh at the hypocrisy of a Leader of the Opposition who chides the Senate for not sitting long enough hours and for not getting through enough business when he himself spends less time in the chamber and takes less part in the debate than almost any other senator. I am well aware that the duties of the Leader of the Opposition require him to spend time outside the chamber. But I would contrast his performance with that of  Senator Murphy  when he was Leader of the Opposition; with that of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson when he was Leader of the Government in the Senate; and with the performance of his opposite number in the other place,  Mr Snedden.  I would suggest, with respect, that if there is one senator who is not pulling his weight here it is  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition. (Opposition senators interjecting.) 

 Senator Young- It is in this Senate. (Government Senators interjecting.) 
In conclusion I would say to the Leader of the Opposition in this place,  Senator Withers,  that he should remind himself of the old adage of people who live in glass houses. 
The action of  Senator Rae  in calling in aid the Karmel Committee report on the proposition of regular turnover of membership of the Australian Schools Commission is, on his own admission, confined to the part-time members. If the Karmel Committee had been of the opinion that this should apply also to fulltime members surely it would have said so. The view of the Government is that people who are prepared to commit their lives at a vital stage of their careers to a job like this one of full-time member of the Commission should have a reasonably lengthy term of office. It may seem that there is not much difference between 5 years and 7 years but let us look at a specific example. The  Chairman  of the present Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission is  Dr Kenneth  McKinnon. He was Director of Education in Papua New Guinea from 1960 to 1973 and has held various other highly responsible jobs. He is 42 years of age. I think that everybody would agree that this is a vital stage in the career of a distinguished academic like  Dr McKinnon.  The Government is fortunate to have his services and we feel that he should not be subjected to the insecurity of a term as short as 5 years. If we are to continue to get the best people we should offer them a term of at least 7 years. 
This proposed amendment illustrates as well as any others the hamstringing effect this pattern of amendment will have on the Government's plan for setting up a Schools Commission. The effect of the proposed amendment is that one of the 3 full time members of the Schools Commission will be a person who is appointed upon the recommendation of the Education Executive of the Episcopal Conference of Australia, the National Council of Independent Schools, or the Australian Parents' Council. I do not suggest that there may not be among those bodies a person competent to fill the role of a full time member of the Schools Commission. However, one hopes that this highly important body will have as its full time members- that is the  Chairman  and three others- the very best people in education in Australia. I submit that the Government should not be limited, hamstrung or hindered in any way in its task of seeking out for those 4 important positionsthe  Chairman  and the 3 other full time members- the very best qualified persons in Australia. But, if it is to be compelled, in advance, to make one of those full time members a person who comes from these restricted spheres, I suggest that we are, or he may be, impairing the excellence of the full time section of this Commission by imposing such inflexible rules on the Government in its choice of full time members. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 6 to 1 1 -by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 12. 
5 ) At a meeting of the Commission- 
if the membership of the Commission does not exceed seven- a quorum is constituted by not less than three members; or 
if the membership of the Commission exceeds seven but docs not exceed nine- a quorum is constituted by not less than four members; or 
in any other case-a quorum is constituted by not less than five members. 
For the purposes of sub-section (5), the membership of the Commission shall be deemed not to exceed seven at any time if the number of members, in addition to the  Chairman,  prescribed for the purposes of sub-section 4 (2) at that time does not exceed six. 
The choice of epithets is, of course, a matter of taste.  Senator Rae  had made some play out of the proposition that he wants our word 'acceptable' replaced by the word 'desirable'. I do not think we should make too much of this. There does not seem to be such an awful gap between the 2 epithets. I suppose that when a man finds a wife acceptable it would be assumed that he also finds her desirable. I think we should not get bogged down in an argument about these words. I would think that in practice what was desirable would also be acceptable, and vice versa. 
But a more serious criticism that I have to make in relation to this amendment is that it is totally unnecessary. One can only assume that the Opposition has not even read the Bill because everything, or almost everything, that it contends for in this amendment is already to be found in the Bill. What the amendment proposes to add is a stress on the need for consultation by the Schools Commission in carrying out its functions. I do not know whether the Opposition wants it to go out to the world that the Opposition alone is insisting that the Schools Commission should consult with the relevant authorities in the States and the Territories. But it is significant that the Opposition has not suggested the elimination of that portion of the Bill which already provides for that very thing. I refer to clause 13 (4) (a) which in clear and mandatory terms casts upon the Commission an obligation to do almost exactly what  Senator Rae  is suggesting. Just in case Opposition members have not read clause 13 (4) (a), I propose to read it to them. 
-Why does not the honourable senator propose to eliminate it now? It is surplusage, is it not? 
I can only assume once more that  Senator Rae  has not read the subclause concerned, which I still propose to read. 
It is under the functions. 
-Let me read it. Let me make clear to the honourable senator what he does not seem to be able to understand. 
Clause 13 (1) reads 
The functions of the Commission are to inquire into, and to furnish information and advice to the Minister with respect to, the following matters:- 
We then proceed to paragraph (a) which is the part of the clause that  Senator Rae  proposes to amend by including an obligation on the Commission in carrying out its functions to consult with certain people. But if we turn to clause 1 3 (4) we find that it reads as follows: 
For the purpose of the performance of its functions - 
What could be clearer than that? the Commission- 
shall - 
Not 'may'- consult with representatives of the States, with authorities in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory responsible for primary education or secondary education in either or both of those Territories and with persons, bodies and authorities conducting nongovernment schools in Australia, and may consult with such other persons, bodies and authorities as the Commission thinks necessary; 
I repeat that if that paragraph is to remain in the Bill it will be surplusage because it covers the same ground as what is proposed to be added to clause 13 (1) (a) by  Senator Rae's  amendment. I just do not understand the plain meaning of words if that is not what is involved in this amendment. If  Senator Rae  has not read subclause (4) (a) - 
Why is it not eliminated? Why does the honourable senator want to have both subclauses? Why does he want to say one thing in clause 13 ( 1 ) (a) and the same thing in clause 13 (4) (a)? No matter how he may protest I can assume only that this is a mistake that is made through carelessness. But the position created by the Opposition is even worse than that. In a further amendment it is proposing to eliminate another clause- the whole of clause 16- which in my submission gives even further guarantees of consultation as it stands. In speaking to this clause, I am not departing from the general requirement that consideration of Bills at the Committee stage we consider one clause at a time. It is necessary to understand the point that I am putting for me to refer to the other provisions in this Bill which cover this same general idea of consultation. Clause 16 provides that in addition to the consultation which is made mandatory by clause 13 (4) (a) which I have just read, for the purpose of assisting the Commission in the performance of its functions the Commission may, in relation to each State and Territory, establish a board or boards to be known as the Schools Commission Advisory Board to give advice to the Commission and to have represented on it the various groups and tendencies for which the Opposition expresses such a tender regard. 
 I am open to explanation from  Senator Rae,  but I cannot understand why he wants an amendment to clause 13(1) (a) unless at the same time he proposes the deletion of clause 13 (4) (a). I can assume only that the reason is not regard for the proper functioning of this 
Commission but a purely propagandist aim to have the Bill go out to the world to show that the Opposition and the Opposition alone is concerned with having this Commission consult with various groups and tendencies in the community. 
This amendment is a fine piece of hair splitting. It is hard to see how a government can devote itself to the needs of schools without conferring benefits on the students who attend them. 
It is a serious remark and I will develop it. 
Could I be allowed to develop my argument so that the honourable senator may attempt to understand?  Senator Rae  spoke constantly of the needs of students as opposed to the needs of schools. If he can explain in some supplementary observation how there is an opposition between the needs of schools and the needs of students attending them I will be delighted to concede that he is a superlogician. But up to now I am afraid I cannot comprehend the opposition which he attempts to draw between them. In any event our case is even stronger than that because if  Senator Rae  had bothered to study closely the rest of clause 13 he would have found that clause 13(3) paragraphs (b) and (c) states: 
In the exercise of its functions, the Commission shall have regard to such matters as are relevant, including the need for improving primary and secondary educational facilities in Australia and of providing increased and equal opportunities for education in government and non-government schools in Australia, and, in particular, shall have regard to- 
the educational needs of handicapped children and handicapped young persons; 
the needs of disadvantaged schools and of students at disadvantaged schools, and of other students suffering disadvantages in relation to education for social, economic, ethnic, geographic, cultural, lingual or similar reasons; 
So the suggestion that our legislation ignores the interests of students which are in some way in opposition to the needs of schools does not even stand up on a cursory examination of the wording of the Bill. The Commission's recommendations for assistance to schools in the States will result in grants under section 96 of the Constitution. Benefits which the Australian Government wishes to pay to students can be and will be made as direct Commonwealth grants under section 51, placitum (xx iiiA.) of the Constitution. As  Senator Rae  will be aware this provides under the amendment which was carried in 1946 that the Australian Government is able to make provision for benefits to students and family allowances. So what we are dealing with here is a division of powers under different sections of the Constitution. What we are dealing with in this Bill is a special purpose grant under section 96 to schools. Incidentally, in this Bill we also take cognisance of the special interest of students. But there is another section of the Constitution which enables us to confer benefits such as scholarships and allowances, which will be improved in legislation which will come before this Parliament and which will satisfy any demands which  Senator Rae  may see fit to serve on this Government to have regard to the needs of students as well as to the needs of schools- interests which, in his view, are opposed interests. 
There is one other piece of hair splitting in which  Senator Rae  has indulged. He said, evidentally per incuriam, that the Government had failed to notice that attention should also be given to the matter of teaching aids. I draw his attention to the clause which he is attempting to amend and which contains these words: 
The needs of such schools in respect to buildings, equipment, staff and other facilities . . . 
Does  Senator Rae  seriously claim, in the light of the existence of those words in sub-clause (b), that this Government has overlooked the need to provide teaching aids? If he does he is going in for an almost Talmudic construction of the words of our Bill. 
Once again the words which the Opposition seeks to import into this sub-clause of clause 13 illustrate its true feelings about the establishment of the Schools Commission which, in defiance of its history, it now pretends not to oppose. The gravamen of the amendment is contained in the words which have been read to the Senate by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, namely, 'the right and responsibility of the State and individual school authorities to determine the specific allocation of such financial assistance . . .' This, in my opinion, is an attempt to break down the clear power conferred on the Australian Government by section 96 of the Constitution, which is a power to grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit. There is a series of High Court interpretations of this action which makes it clear beyond peradventure that the Australian Government is entitled to attach whatever conditions it thinks fit to grants under section 96. Indeed previous governments- Liberal-Country Party governments- have attached such conditions to its grants and they have insisted that those conditions be adhered to. I would like to ask  Senator Rae  whether he has in contemplation by the insertion of these words- that is, if they are to mean anything other than a pious wish- that the Schools Commission could make a grant to a particular school specifying that it should be used for a new classroom but presumably it would be permissible for that school to spend the money on a swimming pool. If the words which he proposes to insert in that subclause mean anything, that is what would be possible. For that reason we reject this amendment. 
Is the Minister for the Media aware that on the night of Friday, 16 November- that is, the day before the New South Wales State election- Channel 9 in Sydney on more than one occasion televised a short film showing a ballot box and a flag with the word 'Liberal' clearly marked on it and also showing the Premier,  Sir Robert  Askin, dropping a ballot paper into the ballot box while a voice reminded viewers to vote on the following day? Does the Minister agree that this constitutes a clear breach of section 116 of the Broadcasting and Television Act? Will he take appropriate action against Channel 9 in respect of this breach? 
The learned classical scholar who has just sat down has warned the 
Senate to beware of Greeks bearing gifts. I suppose this phrase occurred to him because of the revulsion we all know he would feel at the recent acts of the Greek colonels and generals in bearing the gifts of suppression to their people. However, we on this side have learned to beware of conservatives who, under the guise of anti-centralism, lament any disturbance of the status quo. That, of course, is the essence of this tired old cliche of a motion that we have heard today. I do not know whether it is any coincidence that this tired old cliche of a motion should surface just at the time that we have in our midst probably one of the world's leading exponents of the philosophy behind it. I refer, of course, to that second rate cowboy actor and third rate regional politician, Ronald Reagan, who, addressing the Institute of Directors yesterday, delivered himself of this dictum: 
Government is not as efficient as business and government should be a referee and not a player in this game. 
One might as well say that what was good for the age of Adam Smith is good for the age of multinational corporations, nuclear weapons and a world wide crisis of the system itself, based on the profligate misuse of resources. This is the philosophy behind this motion. It is a nostalgic regret that life is no longer simple and that government is therefore complex.  Senator Durack  lamented the fact that the Labor Government had seen fit to introduce 10 new departments of State. What a horror. This of course if merely an acknowledgement of the fact that there are at least 10 new problems to which the Liberal-Country Party coalition failed to advert during its long period of mis-government. 
Most of the argument- if one could call it such- that was used in defence of this general proposition that masquerades as an urgency motion consisted of tired, waffling rhetoric, but once or twice  Senator Durack  did attempt to get down to chapter and verse. Unfortunately, this debate seems to have deteriorated into a misunderstanding and a Bowdlerisation of the Government's arts policy. I can understand that the Opposition resents the fact that we have an arts policy. One can recall that under the previous Government arts got a casual mention in a Ministry of bits and pieces under the egregious  Mr Howson.  Let us have a look at what  Senator Durack  said. He gave the Australian Council for the Arts as an illustration of his proposition that the power being exercised by this Government was being exercised in an arbitrary manner. The point that he was attempting to make in quoting the Council for the Arts- this was evidently not adopted by  Senator McManus-  was that we were operating in many fields, and particularly in this one, without legislative authority. That was the point that  Senator Durack  sought to make out of his use of the example of the Council for the Arts. 
I do not know what we have to do to satisfy this Opposition. If we introduce legislation allegedly without any preparation, without any reports and without any time for debate, we are reproached. There was a recent wail from the Democratic Labor Party that we were introducing legislation at such a rate that its members did not have an opportunity to do it justice. In the case of the Council for the Arts, I remind the Senate that several weeks ago the Government introduced in the Parliament an interim report of the Australian Council for the Arts setting out in detail what we proposed. We proposed to set up a council- a statutory body- to administer the arts. This report was put down precisely in order to give the Parliament an opportunity of studying what we proposed. But  Senator Durack  takes this as an example of the exercise of arbitrary power. I ask again: What do we have to do to satisfy this Opposition? What is perfectly obvious is that the Opposition's lament is not that we are exercising power in an arbitrary, capricious or centralist way. Its lament is, as  Senator Wheeldon  pointed out, merely that we are in government. If we are to look for any chapter and verse explanation of the purpose of this motion before us today, it really comes down to that. 

 Senator Durack did concede that over the last 30 years or so there had been a gradual erosion of absolute State power starting with the introduction of uniform taxation. I suggest to  Senator Durack  and to all senators on the Opposition benches that the real logic of the argument if it can be dignified as such- that they put before the Senate today involves a return to the days before uniform taxation. This is as far as their nostalgia takes them. If they really wish to assist the States by exercising the power which will act as a brake on the wicked centralist socialist government, they will have to go the whole hog and suggest what I make bold to claim they would not dare to suggest, that is, give the taxation power back to the States. Otherwise they have to face the inexorable march of political progress in this country which leads to greater" centralism in governments, no matter which Party is in office. The process of centralising government in this country was proceeding apace under the Liberal-Country Party coalition. To suggest that it received a vast acceleration when we came to office is to misread history. 
What honourable senators opposite are complaining about is that the Australian people since 2 December have had an activist government which wishes to make available to the Australian people all the fruits of the opportunities which nature has given them- a government which wishes to make them available to the people of this country untrammelled by sellouts to overseas companies which was par for the course during the previous Government's day. What they are objecting to is that there is now a government which wants to do something; not merely a government which wants to preside over what is happening, which is what we had for 23 years. 
If, in order to carry out our activist program, we have to appoint more commissions, such as the 77 new commissions which  Senator Durack  referred to with such horror, it merely highlights the fact that when we came to office we were confronted with the task of clearing out the Augean stables which had been bequeathed to us after 23 years of mis-government and nongovernment. Of course, this is a mess which cannot be swept away without some manpower. We have availed ourselves of the skills and expertise in the community to sweep away a mess which was left to us by previous governments. We make no apology for the fact that we are doing this and suggest that the real gravamen of this motion today is not a complaint about arbitrary government or centralist government; it is merely a wail from the Opposition because it is not in government and we are. 

 - Senator McManus has suggested to the Senate that the issue before the chamber this afternoon is the credibility of the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  and the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  With due respect to the honourable senator I would suggest - 
-If honourable senators opposite will give me a chance to do so I will prove that they have misquoted and misreported them. I hope I will be given a chance. I suggest that the real issue is whether the Opposition intends to go to the barricades with  Mr Malcolm  Fraser or go to water with  Senator Rae.  Let us go back to the bold words of a few days ago when threats were being made by  Mr Malcolm  Fraser in the other place and in various sections of this building, including the Press headquarters, where we are told he had some sort of a confrontation with the alleged spokesman on educational matters for the Liberal Party of Australia. I would like to quote from the House of Representatives Hansard of 27 November. Discussing this Bill in another place,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser said: 
The Opposition is opposing clause 66. 
Honourable senators will recall that clause 66 of the Bill is the provision which seeks to remove the continuance beyond the end of 1973 of the special privileges which the top schools have come to expect from Liberal-Country Party governments over the years. I would like honourable senators opposite to listen closely to what  Mr Malcolm  Fraser went on to say. I have awaited some sort of declaration from honourable senators opposite- the great adherents of consistency, the people who like to quote the words of one of the Labor Party's Ministers against the words of another of its Ministers- as to what he said. I would like them to tell us whether they apply the same standards to themselves and whether we are going to see an application of these standards in this debate today. I go back to what  Mr Malcolm  Fraser said on 27 November, which was just last week. He said: 
The Opposition is opposing clause 66. All this clause does is to limit legislation standing on the statute books. We would hope our attitude would be followed through with more likely effect in another place. 
That is what  Mr Malcolm  Fraser hopes. I waited with bated breath throughout a maudlin display of phoney indignation by  Senator Rae  this afternoon for some solid confirmation of an intent to carry out this threat, but it did not arrive. We also did not get anything from  Senator McManus.  I can only conclude from the fact that there was no repetition of this threat this afternoon that the Opposition and perhaps the Australian Democratic Labor Party are in headlong retreat from the barricades which they were prepared to man last week and that they are attempting to cover this retreat with a torrent of words about alleged broken promises. 

 Senator McManus made great play of the greater faith he has in  Mr Beazley  than in  Mr Whitlam.  I take it from that that he would be prepared to accept, because of his great faith in  Mr Beazley,  that  Mr Beazley  was giving an honest statement of intent when in the other place on 27 September 1972 he moved an amendment to the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1972, which clause 66 of this Bill seeks to amend.  His  amendment was in the following terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the House, while not refusing a second reading to the Bill, is of the opinion that it should provide for the establishment of an Australian schools commission to examine and determine the needs of students in government and non-government primary, secondary and technical schools, and recommend grants which the Commonwealth should make to the States to assist in meeting the requirement of all school age children on the basis of needs and priorities and that the application of this policy could not allow the continued acceptance of the provisions of the Bill and that therefore grants should not be made on the basis provided in the Bill in respect of any year after 1973.' 
-Mr Beazley. 
-That amendment was moved by  Mr Beazley,  whom  Senator McManus  is prepared to accept without reservation. 
-That is a statement to which  Mr Beazley,  in his capacity as the Labor Party's shadow Minister for Education, gave voice in an amendment he moved to the legisation we are now proposing to amend by this very Bdi.  Senator McManus  and  Senator Rae  have had the gall to suggest, while praising  Mr Beazley  's integrity, that there has been some inconsistency and some going back on undertakings by the present Government. All they can point to is a statement made by  Mr Whitlam  some time last year prior to making his policy speech. I freely admit that it is not consistent with what he ultimately said in his policy speech. But can it be seriously put to this chamber or to the people of this country that the electors were in any doubt on 2 December about what they were going to get under Labor's policy? What is demanded of  Senator McManus  and  Senator Rae  if they are to sustain their charge that we have fooled the people over this matter is that they point to something in the policy speech itself, which is the basis of our mandate, that is inconsistent with what we are doing now. Neither of them has attempted to do that. All we have had from  Senator Rae  is, first of all, a mixture of bold, indignant rhetoric combined with, as is his custom, almost tearful complaints about the terrible things that the Government is doing. 
Of course, if we are in some sort of a contest about consistency and if we are to be involved in saying that we are held to what one of our Ministers who was in conflict with another Minister has said, I think we are entitled to ask  Senator Rae  today whether he is the spokesman for the Opposition on education matters or whether the spokesman is a man in another place who is alleged to be the spokesman on labour relations and who has made extraordinary progress lately, I have noted, in his words on labour relations. He has adopted what appears to be a tone of sweet moderation. In fact, I would say that he has progressed from the Neanderthal to the antediluvian. The progressive  Mr Malcolm  Fraser is making remarkable progress. But when he steps outside his shadow Ministry, as he so frequently does, he likes to speak also on the defence of the country against the invading yellow hordes. He cannot quite forget that he was once Minister for Defence. When he intrudes into the field of education he goes back to his natural Neanderthal position. Are we on the Government side of the chamber, when looking to what we can expect from the Opposition in matters of education, to take seriously the threats of this bold warrior, 
Malcolm Fraser, who would risk all, who would go to the barricades, who would challenge us to a double dissolution and who had promised us, presumably without any consultation with the nominal spokesman for the Opposition on education matters, that there will be a real showdown here? Are we to listen to him or are we to listen to  Senator Rae?  It is very easy for the other shadow Minister for Education,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, to threaten the ultimate contest in the other chamber, where he knows that he does not have the numbers, but in this chamber, where we come down to the nitty gritty and where the Opposition does have the numbers, presumably there has been some retreat from the barricades. 
Will  Senator Wright  assure me that there is going to be an attempt made in this chamber to have clause 66 deleted from the Bill? 
-He has not.  Senator Rae  did not - 
Would you clear up my confusion by telling me now whether the Opposition proposes the deletion of clause 66? 
I am asking you one thing. Will you tell me that? 

 - Senator, will you tell me that? 
It may save me from having to say anything more. I will sit down if you will assure me now that the Opposition proposes the deletion of clause 66. 
I am asking you: Will you tell me that? 
The  ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Byrne)-  Order!  Senator Mcclelland,  would you kindly address the Chair? 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  it is clear that the threats, the dire predictions, of taking us on, of challenging us before the electorate, which fell from the bold  Mr Fraser  and from the less bold but rather talkative  Mr Snedden  a few days ago have gone and that they have had second thoughts about these bold plans and that we are not to get from the Senate - 
-Senator Rae, I ask you - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder! 
-Over and over again in this debate the Opposition senators have quoted and misquoted statements designed to show a conflict between Ministers of the Government and various statements made by them, and they want to hold us to those statements. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTThere is no point of order. 
It is very unwelcome to  Senator Rae  to have it pointed out to this chamber that all we have had from him is a lot of windy rhetoric that does not add up to anything. It does not add up to anything. A week ago these people were prepared to challenge us before the people of Australia about this Bill. They were prepared to say: 'If you will not give money, as we wanted to give money, to the privileged schools in this country, you cannot have your Bill'. 
-That was the purport of their stand. Their stand was calculated to have this effect but now, it is perfectly clear, despite all the windy rhetoric - 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  despite- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator Rae made an allegation about  Senator 
James McClelland in unparliamentary terms. It was provoked by the heat of the moment. I think that  Senator Rae  might be prepared to indicate that he thinks that  Senator James  McClelland is not stating the facts correctly. Use of that term is unparliamentary. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The term has been found to be offensive by  Senator James  McClelland. I think that the honourable senator might care to withdraw the phrase and if he wishes to indicate in other words that are reasonably acceptable- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY SPEAKER-  I call on  Senator Rae  to withdraw the expression which has been found to be offensive by  Senator James  McClelland. I call  Senator Rae. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I am inviting  Senator Rae  to withdraw the expression that he used in relation to  Senator James  McClelland. It has been found to be offensive and is unparliamentary. 
I can readily understand the confusion of the Opposition in this debate. After all, it makes them very uncomfortable to have made the bold threats which one or other of the Opposition spokesmen for education in the other place made and then over here when it comes down to the nitty gritty to have to go to water. That is precisely what the Opposition proposes to do. It is not prepared to face the judgment of the voters of Australia for depriving the needy schools of $700m in order that the privileged schools should continue to get the favoured treatment which they have come to expect from the Opposition- the Liberal and Country Party and Democratic Labor Party members of this place. 

 -When Senator Rae wants it. Let him declare it on. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder!  Senator Rae,  are you asking for leave to make a statement? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Are you asking for leave or do you claim that you have been misrepresented? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The honourable senator claims that he has been misrepresented. In those circumstances he may speak and indicate in what sense he has been misrepresented. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder! The honourable senator is claiming that he was misrepresented and is explaining the circumstances of the misrepresentation. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The documents read as follows)- 
Speech by E. G. Whitlam, Festival Hall, 2 May 1972 
 We want to remove the inequalities in Australian education, and these are the greatest in the non-government sector, and my Party believes that where the need is greatest, there, this assistance should be given. We will not repeal or reduce any educational benefit which is already being paid. We will confirm any which there are already . . . '. 
Address by E.  G.  Whitlam to Catholic Luncheon Club,  20  June  1972 
The ALP has never voted against any bill proposing Commonwealth aid for education and it will support any forms of benefit already existing. ' 
Speech by K. Beazley at Haberfield,  27  October  1972 
Whispering campaigns to the contrary, no private school under Labor will in future get less than the per capita grant it gets now (1972).' 
Report in Daily Telegraph,  28  October  1972  on Public Meeting at Haberfield 
No private school would get less under a Labor Government than the per capita grant it received now. ' 
G.  Whitlam's Polley Speech,  13  November  1972 
A Federal Labor Government will: 
Continue all grants under Commonwealth legislation throughout 1973. 
Allocate the increased grants for 1974 and subsequent years on the basis of recommendations prepared and published by the Schools Commission. ' 
Letter from  Dr A.  S. Holmes, Principal, Oakburn College Questions for  Mr K.  Beazley,  20  November  1972 
Is it the intention of the Federal Labor Party to continue Per Capita Aid to Independent Schools for 1974 and following years? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Is it a fact that one of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's parliamentary announcers has recently been dismissed? If so, what was the reason for his dismissal? Was the announcer informed of the reason for his dismissal? 
It is a laughable exhibition to have the Opposition twitting the Government with being afraid to go to the people when it has spent the last couple of days in just that state. The Opposition is afraid to put these matters to the people. These democrats who ask us to consult the people of Australia about what they wish are by this very motion denying just that appeal to the people. It should be recalled that it does not matter what happens in the Senate or in the House of Representatives in relation to these proposals for referenda in the sense that they do not alter anything. This tale of lamentation, of the awful things that will be done to our governmental structure if this Bill passes the Senate, overlooks the fact that nothing will be changed until the people of Australia have spoken on the matter. If the Opposition is so confident that these are outrageous proposals and that they will get the deserts which the Opposition claims are their due, why do not honourable senators opposite as democrats, who are anxious for us to go to the people, allow these matters to go to the people. The fact of the matter is that all their indignation and all their claims to be great democrats are quite phoney. 
I listened to  Senator Greenwood  working himself up into a lather of indignation at the way in which we had treated the Senate committees by recommitting this proposal in the face of the fact that the Opposition had had the numbers to refer it to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs when it was last before the Senate. Of course, we have become used to the fact that the loftier the tone of indignation that we get from  Senator Greenwood  the phonier is his argument. Does anybody in the Senate seriously believe that the reason why the Opposition referred this matter to the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee was for it to get more serious consideration? Everybody knows that that was an attempt to bury this Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill. What  Senator McManus  is proposing to do is also an attempt to bury this Bill. He is talking about the need for this proposal to get most careful examination. He has had since last December to think of all the arguments against this Bill as have  Senator Greenwood  and the rest of the Opposition. They have had abundant time. The suggestion that suddenly they have been caught unawares with a proposition to which they have not been able to give proper consideration just will not hold water. One assumes that on a matter which the Opposition regards as seriously as this it would not have been twiddling its thumbs since last December. One imagines that it would have sat down and looked at the history of proposals for constitutional reform. 

 Senator Greenwood even went to the trouble to delve back into the history books to find out what happened in the Menzies era when there was a double dissolution. There was no evidence in  Senator Greenwood's  speech to show that he has been caught unawares by this proposal which has been put to the Senate today. Of course, it is fatuous and hypocritical. The Opposition knew all about this. It has had abundant time to think about it. This is a very simple proposition and there is time for it to be debated today. We are confronted with an attempt by the Opposition to prevent the people of Australia from having their say on this most important matter. We are not trying to dragoon anybody. We are not trying to push anything down the throats of the people. They can knock this matter back if they want to. 
-Perhaps they will.  Senator Lawrie  says that they will. If that is the case I do not know why he is not voting for this Bill. Why should he not welcome the opportunity of having another rebuff given by the people of Australia to the present Government? If he is so confident that the people of Australia will not stomach this proposal, let him cross the floor and vote with us. Let us put this to the test. But the Opposition does not want to give the Australian people a say on this or other matters of constitutional reform. They twit us with being a cowardly government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has shown that he is perhaps the most courageous Prime Minister this country has ever had. He is prepared to let the people have a say on any matter which he thinks requires constitutional amendment. Who are those who will not allow it?  Senator Greenwood  laughs. If  Senator 
Greenwood were so anxious to let the people of Australia express their opinion he would also be anxious to have them vote on this matter. Let us examine in some detail the reasons which  Senator McManus  has advanced for his proposed recommendation and which, by the way, amount to a plea for careful examination. I thought that he would elaborate on that proposition. What does he mean by 'careful examination'? Does he not think that careful examination is given by the mere fact of our debating this matter? I thought that there would be plenty of opportunity for everything to be said that could be said against this proposal in the course of this ordinary debate. I do not think that  Senator Greenwood  took the opportunity which he had to reply to what I thought was a most cogent argument from  Senator Cant  in relation to the first reason which is advanced in support of  Senator McManus  's amendment. It states: 
The proposal contained in the Bill would destroy the independence of the  Senile  and thus weaken the federal structure. 
Does  Senator McManus  seriously suggest that the federal structure will be weakened if we have simultaneous elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate? This is what we have had throughout most of the life of the Australian Parliament.  Senator Cant  asked him rhetorically: 'Are you suggesting that when the 2 houses were elected at the same time we had weak government'? I submit that exactly the contrary is the case. When you have a Senate election at a different time to a House of Representatives election the Senate election takes on the character of a by-election. It is notorious that, no matter what government is in office, whether a Labor government or a LiberalCountry Party coalition government propped up by the Democratic Labor Party, when there is a by-election for the House of Representatives the people take the opportunity to be critical of whatever government is in office. We can examine the records with which we have been supplied by the psephologists which show that there is no exception to this rule that when an election is held separately to a general election the electors take the opportunity to give the government of the day a rap over the knuckles. 
Yes, I believe it gets - 
I shall tell you why. The reason is that we then get a Senate with a composition which the electors do not seriously want. 
I believe that their vote is not cast as responsibly as when they are electing a government. 
Yes. I believe that that is a luxury that we cannot afford. I believe that a vote cast in that mood is not a responsible vote. I do not hesitate to criticise the electors. I do not suggest that because we are politicians we have to tell the electors that they never make a mistake- that we have to scratch their backs and toady to them. I believe that a vote cast in the atmosphere of a by-election is not a vote which is cast as sensibly as one with which the people elect a government. I believe that we have more stable government - 
In order to defend the proposition which  Senator Wright  evidently espouses he has to maintain that throughout the period in which elections for the House of Representatives were held at the same time as elections for the Senate we had weaker and worse government than at the present time. Does he advance that proposition? 
-That is the proposition with which the Opposition is stuck. Their argument is shot through with illogicality. If they want to advance that proposition let them do so. 
-The raids on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation have nothing to do with it. One of the bonuses that we will get out of the next Senate election will be that we will be relieved of the presence of  Senator Little  in this place. 
Let me pass to the second reason that  Senator McManus  offers for his extraordinary amendment. He says that the 6-year terms of senators could be reduced to 1 8 months by mid-term dissolutions of the House of Representatives. Does not the honourable senator realise that at any time in the history of this Parliament the term of office of a senator can be reduced by the unilateral action of the Prime Minister in another place? What is new about this proposition? An honourable senator is elected for his term or until a double dissolution. Any time that the Government chooses to have a double dissolution an honourable senator's term of office expires. 
Yes, but the senator's term is reduced independently of his election and independently of what ever period for which the people may have elected him.  His  term can be altered by an action in the other place. As a result of action taken in another place - 
I think that I will be here a little longer than the honourable senator. That is one thing that is reasonably certain. 
If I may be allowed to continue,  Senator McManus  having had his say, I suggest that all the crocodile tears that we have had from  Senator Greenwood  and all the appeals for democracy that we have had from  Senator McManus  are so much hypocrisy. What they are really saying is that we do not want the people of Australia to express an opinion on this proposal or on the other proposals that we have been considering over the last couple of days. These are - 
-Yes-and if the people make a wrong decision, we are stuck with it, as we are stuck with the wrong decision that they made at the referendum last year. I will not hesitate to say that I believe that the people have been wrong and that they have been wrong often. They were wrong for 23 years up until December 1972. In any event, I suggest that despite all the indignation that we have heard from senators opposite, theirs is an insincere and phoney argument based on a desire to avoid the judgment of the Australian people and not on any devotion to democracy. 
During the last week we have been engaged in discussing various proposals for constitutional reform which the Government wishes to put before the people. In that time we have been treated to some very extravagant and wild-eyed allegations. But I did not think that I would ever hear anything so paranoid as the contribution from  Senator Carrick  this afternoon in which he suggested that even when the Australian Government attempts to confer powers upon the States it is attempting to crush them. I can assume only that he has looked at this proposal in a very cursory fashion. The present constitutional arrangement, as provided by section 5 1 placitum (xxxvii) is that the parliaments of the States may refer powers to the 
Parliament of the Commonwealth. The proposal we are discussing here today is the reverse of that, or at least it is an addition. It suggests that there are certain spheres in which the Australian Parliament and the Australian Government might wish to confer powers on the States. The purpose of this proposed constitutional amendment is to enable the Australian Government to do so. However,  Senator Carrick  says that this move is part and parcel of the plot, the conspiracy, the dire plan of the Australian Government to destroy the States. Words have lost all meaning if that meaning can be read into this proposal. 
Another point which is overlooked by  Senator Carrick  and other opponents of this proposal is that the States are not being asked to give any power irrevocably to the Australian Government. I direct the attention of honourable senators opposite to the proposed new section 108B, which reads as follows:  ( I.) The reference of a matter by the Parliament of a State for the purposes of paragraph (xxxvii.) of section fifty-one or the designation of a matter by the Parliament of the Commonwealth for the purposes of section one hundred and eight a shall be by Act of that Parliament and- 
may be so made as to take effect at a future time or subject to a condition precedent: 
may be so made as to cease to have effect, if not sooner revoked, at a fixed time or upon a particular event, or at a time to bc fixed: 
How can it be an invasion of the powers of the States when they are left in complete control of the duration of any reference of power that they give to the Commonwealth? This elaborates, expands and in every way increases the powers of the States in relation to any matters that they may refer to the Commonwealth. The proposed new section goes on: 
may bc revoked at any dme by an Act of that Parliament; 
may be extended in duration by, or in accordance with provision made by, an Act of that Parliament; 
e ) may be so made as to be subject to conditions, including conditions as to the laws that may be made by virtue of the reference or designation or as to the operation of those laws; 
It is particularly shameful for lawyers on the opposite side of the chamber to suggest that this proposal detracts in any way from the powers of the States. Up to now there has been considerable doubt among lawyers as to whether, when a State delegated or referred powers to the Australian Government, there was any power, to impose conditions or to include a power of revocation. By this amendment the Australian Government, which is accused by  Senator Carrick  and other honourable senators opposite of attempting to destroy the States, puts a specific limitation on any reference of power which the States may choose to give to the Australian Government. Yet this is pilloried as an attempt by the Australian Government to destroy the power of the States. 
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have exclusive power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to- 
The seat of Government of the Commonwealth, and all places acquired by the Commonwealth for public purposes: 
One result of that conferring of exclusive power on the Commonwealth is illustrated in the well known case of Worthing v. Rowell and Muston Pty Ltd, which was heard in the High Court in 1 970. It was an action by a man named Worthing who was injured at the Richmond Air Force base. The action was based on a breach of statutory duty by his employer, relying upon the New South Wales Scaffolding and Lifts Act. It was pleaded by the defendant company that the provisions of the regulations under the Act did not apply to the Richmond Air Force base because of the operation of section 52 (i), that is, that the Australian Government had exclusive powers to make laws in respect to territory which had been acquired by the Commonwealth for public purposes. There was no doubt that the Richmond Air Force base had been acquired by the Commonwealth for public purposes. It was held by the High Court that the scaffolding and lifts safety regulations which had been introduced by the New South Wales Government did not apply to the Richmond Air base. 
In the result this worker, who brought the action for breach of statutory duty which would have automatically entitled him to a verdict if he had been suing an employer for injuries received at any place in NSW other than a place which had been acquired by the Commonwealth, lost his action. The Prime Minister has suggested, as I think all lawyers would concede, that this was an injustice which is wrought by this conflict of powers between the Commonwealth and the States. The Prime Minister suggested that this would be an appropriate field in which the Australian Government would cede power to the States, that is, would acknowledge that the States' laws of that nature would apply to a place which had been acquired by the Commonwealth. So far from this being purely window dressing and far from suggesting that we merely want to make a pretence of conferring powers on the States in order that they might see fit to confer powers on the Australian Government with respect, for instance, to such matters as family law and defamation, I point to this offer of the Prime Minister which I respectfully suggest to honourable senators is an earnest of our sincerity and our genuineness in wanting to make this a 2 -way traffic. Of course this is the way this offer was interpreted by the representatives of the States which were present at the Australian Constitutional Convention. 
No matter what may be said by  Senator Greenwood  about alleged attempts by the Prime Minister to mislead the public about the attitude of the States to this offer, I refer him to the report of the proceedings before the Constitutional Convention, which I believe  Senator Greenwood  along with myself attended on the relevant day. After the Prime Minister had floated this suggestion which is embodied in this proposed amendment of the Constitution, the Premiers and representatives of the various States rose in their seats and expressed their reaction to this offer. 
-With one exception, but the notion which is suggested by this amendment that this is something which is sprung on the Parliament without a proper opportunity being given to the affected parties to consider it just will not hold water. 
-The Prime Minister said: 
It is urged on us that these aspects are matters which can be, in the words of paragraph (xxxvii) of section 5  1  of the Constitution- 
. referred to the Parliament of the Commonwealth by the Parliament or Parliaments of any State or States, but so that the law shall extend only to States by whose Parliaments the matter is referred, or which afterwards adopt the law. 
In respect of this paragraph New South Wales and Victoria have proposed that the reference power should be amended to remove doubts both as to power to refer for a limited term and as to power to revoke a reference. 
This is covered specifically in proposed new section 108b. The Prime Minister continued: 
New South Wales also has suggested that the Commonwealth should be authorised to referpowers to the States. Victoria wishes to ensure that a reference may be made subject to terms and conditions. 
The Prime Minister then went on to cite Worthing's case to which I have just referred. He also referred to the fact that if the Commonwealth seas and submerged lands legislation is valid, it would suit the Commonwealth as well as the States to refer to the States the power to make laws with respect to jetties, marinas, moorings and water sports. 

 -If Senator Byrne would let me make my point he could then comment on it. I am not suggesting for one moment that the Prime Minister got a written definitive statement from each of the Premiers or representatives of the States saying, in effect, Yes, we have considered this fully and we agree with it fully'. I am not putting it as high as that. I am saying that at the Constitutional Convention the Prime Minister floated this idea and referred specifically to the instances which I have given and he evoked the responses from the representatives of the States to which I am about to refer. I say that in rebuttal of the proposition that this is something which is sprung on the States without their being given an opportunity to consider it. 
I refer also to the consideration which has been given in detail to the proposition by representatives of the States. After the Prime Minister at the Constitutional Conventionwhich as I say was attended by  Senator Greenwood  and myself- sat down, having said the things which I have just quoted,  Sir Robert  Askin, representing New South Wales said, among other things: 
Delegation leaders have agreed not to take more than 2 minutes each to state our respective attitudes on the statement just made by the Prime Minister. 
That was an odd agreement which was immediately broken.  Sir Robert  Askin then referred to the statement of the Prime Minister and said: 
I believe that it is a step in the right direction. If carried, it will place the Commonwealth in the position where it will be able, when and where deemed expedient, to refer certain powers to the States on terms and conditions. 

 Mr Hamer, the Premier of Victoria, said: 

 Mr Chairman, I merely indicate very briefly that the Victorian delegation as a whole would agree in principle to this proposal which was hammered out last night. 

 Mr Dunstan, for South Australia, expressed his agreement.  Mr Tonkin,  for Western Australia, expressed his agreement.  Mr Everett,  for Tasmania, expressed his agreement. Anybody, including the most profound constitutional lawyer, who could tell me, after reading what  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  said, whether he agreed or disagreed, is a better man than I am. I cannot read into anything that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  said any flat footed rejection of the proposal put by the Prime Minister. He hedged what he said with ifs, buts and conditions but he certainly was not horrified, as indeed why should he be horrified? The notion that there is some trap in this proposal, that it is part of some suggestion as is put forward by  Senator Carrick  for the Australian Government to crush the States beneath a ruthless heel, just will not hold water. 
We are offering to let the States have some powers, and  Senator Carrick  says 'powers which are now within the exclusive power of the Australian Government'.  Senator Carrick  says that this is another illustration of the Australian Government's attempt to crush the States. As I said in quoting the reactions of the various representatives of the States to the proposition when it was put forward by the Prime Minister, the consideration which the States have given this proposal did not stop there. After the Australian Constitutional Convention broke up it set up various committees one of which was designed specifically to consider the fine print and the detail of this proposition for mutual interchange of powers between the Australian Government and the States. This committee met several times and considered this matter in depth. I am not suggesting that there is any document in existence which embodies a consensus of the States. But, once again, to suggest that there is anything new, anything precipitate, or anything ill conceived about this proposition will not hold water. After all, what are we asking here? Are we asking the Parliament of Australia to make some drastic and permanent alteration to our constitutional arrangement? 
-Senator, we are not. We are asking the people to pass their opinion on it. In every one of these proposed alterations which has been considered  Senator Greenwood  has shown a total inability to distinguish between passing a Bill in this Parliament and permanently altering the Constitution. The Constitution is not altered until the people of Australia, with the difficult processes which have been set out- so difficult that, as many honourable senators have pointed out, there have been few alterations to the Australian Constitution- as the final arbiters - 
-The honourable senator does not want them even to consider these matters. He acts as though we are using some brutal numbers- which of course we do not have here- to steamroller some proposition, to put something over the Australian people when the reality is that what we have put before the Senate is a matter which already has been suggested to the States and which already has won the approval of the States in principle. It has been discussed by a committee of the Constitutional Convention. Now we say: 'Let the people pass judgment on it.' But what do we get? We get an amendment which says that the Bill should be deferred until after consideration has been given to its proposals by all State governments and by the Australian Constitutional Convention. If this does not indicate a paranoid determination by the Opposition to oppose all suggestions for change of the Constitution and to deprive the Australian people of their rightgiven to them under the Constitution- to pass judgment on proposals for alteration of the Constitution, I do not know what it does. 
-Can the Attorney-General inform the Senate what has become of the proposal to introduce a small claims court in the Australian Capital Territory? 
Was he correctly reported in the Press as saying that the court's jurisdiction would be limited to claims not exceeding $500? As the purpose of the court, as I understand it, is to simplify legal procedures and minimise legal costs, will the Attorney-General give consideration to raising the financial limit so that more people will be able to take advantage of the court? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. I refer to a question I asked him on 5 March concerning the dismissal of one of the Australian Broadcasting Commissions 's parliamentary announcers,  Mr John  Flower. In reply to that question the Minister said that he would advise me about negotiations that were to take place between the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association. Is he now in a position to inform me as to the result of those negotiations? Can he inform me as to the grounds for  Mr Flower's  dismissal and whether  Mr Flower  has been informed by the management as to these grounds? Has the management made available to the Staff Association the tape recording concerned in this matter; and, if not, what are its reasons for not doing so? 

 - Mr President, I propose to take the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  at his word when he states that honourable senators opposite are not bound by any party allegiances in their attitude towards the proposal that has been put to the Senate by  Senator Murphy  but will vote according to their conscience. That being the case, I assume that they approach this question with an open mind and will want to listen to argument as to why they should support the proposition that has been put to them by  Senator Murphy.  The first question that occurs to me- and I think that it should occur to any people looking at this matter with an open mind- is that if the Opposition is so overwhelmingly confident that the facts are all on its side, why does it worry about having those facts examined by the highest court in the land? 
I do not know in what courts  Senator Withers  spent his time before he came to this place or since he has been in this place, but he has certainly given the Senate a curious notion of what goes on in the High Court. He says that the proposition that we put before the Senate is a proposal to sweep all the facts under the rug. I suggest to him that he should examine the very provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act which has been referred to by  Senator Murphy.  Is  Senator Withers  seriously suggesting that the facts will not get a proper airing or will not be properly examined in the High Court or will not get just as accurate, detailed and microscopic an examination as has been sought to have them given in this place? Section 208 ofthe Commonwealth Electoral Act reads: 
The provisions of sections one hundred and ninety-three, one hundred and ninety-five, one hundred and ninety-seven, one hundred and ninety-eight, two hundred, two hundred and one and two hundred and two shall apply so far as applicable to proceedings on a reference to the Court of Disputed Returns under this Part of this Act. 
If the honourable senator would refer to the various powers which the High Court may exercise in considering any of these applications- I omitted to refer to the most important one of all- he will see that section 206 states: 
On the hearing of any reference under this Part of this Act the Court of Disputed Returns shall sit as an open Court and shall have the powers conferred by section one hundred and eighty-nine of this Act so far as they are applicable . . . 
If  Senator Withers  seriously believes that if and when this matter gets to the High Court, which is an open court, the facts will not be properly examined by the Court, I suggest that he should have a look at section 189 which is specifically invoked by section 206 that I have just read. Section 1 89 says, inter alia: 
1 ) The Court of Disputed Returns shall sit as an open Court and its powers shall include the following: 
To adjourn: 
To compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents . . . 
That would include any documents that have been produced here and, one assumes, any documents which the Opposition suggests are being suppressed. In other words, the facts will be submitted to an even closer scrutiny in the High Court than they would get in this Parliament. Section 1 89 continues:  (iia) To grant to any party to a petition leave to inspect in the presence  of a  prescribed officer the rolls . . 
iii ) To examine witnesses on oath: 
To declare that any person who was returned as elected was not duly elected: 
The other provisions make it quite clear that the suggestion by  Senator Withers  of a sweeping of the facts under the rug, in what can be termed only as a gesture of contempt of the High Court, is a travesty of what would go on in the High Court. Another most important safeguard is contained in section 205 of the Act, which states: 
The Court of Disputed Returns . . . 
Which, for the purposes of this section, is defined in this Act as being the High Court - 
. may allow any person who in the opinion of the Court is interested in the determination of any question referred to it under this part of this Act to be heard on the hearing of the reference, or may direct notice of the reference to be served on any person, and any person so allowed to be heard or so directed to be served shall be deemed to be a party to the reference. 
This is what we get. This is what we are suggesting. What is undemocratic and what is there in this proposition which we are putting to the Senate which will not ensure that this matter is properly ventilated and properly examined by the best legal minds in this country? We have heard gibes or implied gibes from  Senator Withers  at the legal advice which has been tendered to the Attorney-General. I take it that  Senator Withers  is casting some sort of a slur on the SolicitorGeneral or on the counsel assisting the AttorneyGeneral. If honourable senators opposite are not satisfied with this advice or if they believe that there is something partial about it, one would think that they would hasten to embrace the proposition that the matter should be decided by the most disinterested minds in the community. 1 heard one or two interjections suggesting, in a further slur upon the High Court, that somehow or other the judgment of this Court could not be trusted because, as one interjector asked: Who appointed the members of the High Court? With 2 exceptions, the 7 members of the High Court were appointed by our opponents. I am certain that one would never hear from  Senator Wright,  for example, any suggestion that we would get from the High Court anything but an impartial decision. So our suggestion is a proposition which has much greater fairness and much greater impartiality about it than any suggestions that the matter be decided in the heat of Party political passions, according to numbers or in any way that would not ensure a proper hearing of this matter. 
We have heard also from  Senator Withers  a suggestion that  Senator Murphy  in this exercise today is involved in some sort of exercise of swallowing his own words- words which he used in argument on a previous occasion. I hope that before this debate is over we will hear something from a previous Attorney-General- namely  Senator Greenwood-  who was referred to by  Senator Murphy  in his speech. It will have become perfectly clear to honourable senators that  Senator Greenwood  will be involved in a lot of word swallowing if he is to oppose this motion because, as  Senator Murphy  made perfectly clear, in a contribution to a debate in this place in August 1971  Senator Greenwood  wenton record as saying that the appropriate place to have a matter of the type that we are discussing today resolved is the High Court of Australia. 
-The matter then under discussion was whether the appointment of an Assistant Minister involved some sort of vacating of his office as being an office of profit under the Crown. I am not suggesting for one moment that we are discussing the same problem now. But  Senator Greenwood  stepped way outside any application to that matter when he said, in the words which have been quoted by  Senator Murphy: 
I would have thought that where a senator's constitutional right to sit in this chamber is conferred by the Constitution, the High Court is the appropriate body charged by the Constitution with the duties of interpretation. 
That precise question will be involved if this matter is not resolved. Are we to hear from  Senator Greenwood  today that what applied in August 1971, when it suited his case, does not apply in April 1974, when it does not suit his case? If that is so, let us not have any further gibes from  Senator Withers  about  Senator Murphy  having to swallow his words. 
I am invited to read the rest of it. These words follow immediately after that statement by  Senator Greenwood: 
It would be an unreal situation if this Parliament or any one House of the Parliament were to decide whether of not a senator had the qualifications to remain in this chamber. I believe it would be mischievous to embark upon an inquiry on the assumption that this Parliament or this chamber does have that power. 
That brings me to the nub of the amendment moved by  Senator Withers.  He has not circulated copies of the amendment, but as I heard it the opening words which it seeks to have inserted were: 
That the Senate, in pursuance of its powers under section 47 of the Constitution- 
I have a copy now. I withdraw what I said. The first words which are sought to be inserted are: 
That the Senate, in pursuance of its powers under section 47 of the Constitution resolves . . . 
Let us look at section 47 of the Constitution, which has already been referred to by  Senator Murphy.  It states: 
Until the Parliament otherwise provides, any question . . . 
That is very wide- 
. respecting the qualification of a senator or of a member of the House of Representatives, or respecting a vacancy in either House of the Parliament, and any question of a disputed election to either House, shall be determined by the House in which the question arises. 
I submit that under the provisions of the Electoral Act which have been referred to, and some which were just touched on, the Australian Parliament has otherwise provided, and it has left out nothing in providing. I refer to sections 203 to 208 and then refer back to section 183 and the following sections. Every aspect of the powers referred to in section 47 of the Constitution has been provided for by the Parliament. 
This phrase 'Until the Parliament otherwise provides' permeates the Constitution. It appears in many other sections of the Constitution as well as section 47.I have looked through the books in an attempt to find in the decided cases some words from the High Court to define what is meant by 'Until the Parliament otherwise provides'. It is a curious fact that there is not to be found, or at least not to be found by me- I stand corrected if anybody's research is more thorough- any cases on the meaning of this phrase 'Until the Parliament otherwise provides'. I can conclude only that when the Parliament has otherwise provided, either under this section or any other section of the Constitution, it has been accepted by everybody affected that that resolves the question; one does not then look at the Constitution but one looks at the legislation until the Parliament has otherwise provided. I am suggesting that the matter is totally exhausted by the provision in the Electoral Act of machinery for meeting every possible challenge and every type of situation in which there is some doubt about qualifications, some doubt about vacancies or some doubt about the sort of matter that we are considering today. 
So there is this illusion enshrined in the opening sentence of the amendment- an amemdment which speaks of the Senate doing something in pursuance of its powers under section 47. But the powers under which the Senate should now act are the powers conferred by the Electoral Act. By way of interjection  Senator Byrne  asked  Senator Murphy  why the permissive word 'may' instead of the word 'shall' is used. I am prepared to grasp that nettle. I am prepared to admit that the Senate may or may not take the steps that we are suggesting. But I submit that it may not take any other steps. 
The Senate may not decide the matter itself when there is a procedure under section 203 to go to the High Court of Australia. It can, if it likes, with the use of numbers, decide that it will not take this procedure of referring the matter to the High Court. But, of course, there are other provisions under section 185 etc., which make it possible for an individual then to lodge a petition and to challenge the result of an election after the election has taken place. Of course, this may be a method which appeals to the Opposition more than the method which we are suggesting. But is that not a much more messy way of approaching this problem? Is it not much better to clear up any doubt which may exist before the election takes place? That, I suggest, is the real purport of the word 'may' in section 203. The Parliament did provide a method- a neat, tidy and eminently fair method when read along with the other sections in this Part of the Act- whereby questions of this nature might be resolved in advance of the election taking place. All we are inviting the Senate to do is to take advantage of this eminently fair method of resolving this matter. Anybody who is interested, as I have said, may be represented before the High Court at the hearing. It will be an open hearing. The Court will have the opportunity of calling for all the papers, of inviting any witnesses, including, if necessary,  Mr Gair  himself, or the Prime Minister (  Mr Whitlam  ) or the Attorney-General. 
What is it that the Opposition fears? All we heard from  Senator Withers  was the statementwhich, I must say, struck me as an outrageous statement for a lawyer to make- in that we were seeking to refer this matter to the highest tribunal in the land in order that the problem and facts could be swept under the rug. Is that really what the Leader of the Opposition sees as the function of the High Court of Australia? He also said that because we found that the facts were against us we were resorting to the terrible strategem of going to the law. This also strikes me as a most extraordinary statement, especially coming from a lawyer. What does it mean? Does it mean that we should have no regard for the law of 
Australia; that we should go ahead if we think the facts are with us, and if we think we have the numbers to make that stick we should not bother about the law? Is this the proposition that came from the Leader of the Opposition in this place, himself a lawyer? If so, and if members of the Opposition are, as he assured us, genuinely to vote today according to their conscience and not according to the numbers, I cannot see how they can fail to reject his substitute for an argument and pay some regard to the arguments which have been advanced from this side of the chamber. 
Section 203 has been in the Commonwealth Electoral Act since 1907. It was inserted in its present form in 1918, but a section in almost identical words- identical except that 'qualifications' read 'qualification'- was in the Act in 1907. It was inserted, as I understand it, after the confusion arising from the case of Vardon v. O 'Loghlin and was specifically put into the statute by this Parliament in order that provision and machinery would exist for the resolution, the harmonious and orderly resolution, of a problem just such as this. Part XVIII of the Act, from section 183 to section 208, provides an elaborate code designed to meet every sort of situation of this kind that one can imagine. 
What is the outrageous proposition advanced by the Government? In effect we say: Let an independent, highly respected- highly respected by me anyhow, no matter what  Senator Withers  may say about it, and highly respected, I think, by  Senator Wright  and other lawyers on the other side of the chamber- and impartial body examine all the facts about which there are so many heated passions in this place. Let the Court examine witnesses and documents and then come down with a definitive ruling on what is the real state of affiairs. We on this side have no guarantee as to how the Court will find. If the facts are so overwhelmingly in favour of the Opposition, as the Opposition suggests, what has it to fear from this tribunal looking at those facts and giving a ruling? That is all we are asking. We are asking that the highest court in the land be given the opportunity to examine these facts, to examine the law and then to bring down a definitive and authoritative ruling on the matter which will satisfy this Parliament and which will satisfy the people of Australia. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
When the die was cast this afternoon- as we all know it was- and it became clear that the country was confronted with a double dissolution, I entertained the vain hope that those who have been boring us so relentlessly throughout the life of this Parliament would at least do us the favour and the mercy of being brief. 
I propose to. But no, the professor of the art of tedious repetition,  Senator Greenwood,  has used the dying hours of this Parliament to perform his dreary act again ad nauseam. I think he should have the opportunity, before the Parliament rises, to deny a rumour which has become very persistent around this place. It is said that when the lights go out in the chamber at night he hides under his desk and when we have all left he turns them on again and talks all night to himself. I do not propose to go through the whole dreary catalogue of the alleged offences of this Government. However, I did find it interesting - 
I admit nothing. This is not a night for admissions. 
-Senator, I said 'alleged'. No admission is contained in that statement. That is a lawyer's term. Nonetheless, no admission is contained when one adds the word 'alleged'. It is a term of art. If the honourable senator listens closely he may find out something about this. 
All right. As I said, I do not propose to examine point by point the dreary catalogue of alleged offences which we have heard from  Senator Greenwood  tonight. However, I shall refer briefly to a matter about which he is quite- if I may use a word which has been alleged to be a favourite of mine- paranoid: The suggestion that  Senator Murphy's  performances in relation to the Croats were in some way reprehensible and that this is to be counted against this Government when it is being judged by the people. I would like  Senator Greenwood  to contemplate this one point which has been made very frequently in the last few days.  Senator Murphy  made his historic disclosures on, I think, 14 March last year. I ask honourable senators to think: One of the consequences of those disclosures is that no bombs have gone off in the ensuing year. 
-The response which that remark evoked indicates how unpalatable it is to the Opposition. 
-One is reminded of the cackling of the geese before the fall of Rome. These gentlemen opposite- the geese to whom you have referred,  Mr Presidentrealise  the folly of the course of events which they have set in train. Tonight they indicate that they are a very glum and gloomy lot. As 1 look around this chamber I am persuaded that the gentlemen on the opposite side realise that they will stay on the opposite side. They regret the rashness which let their stodgy, mediocre leader, the Leader of the Liberal Party  (Mr Snedden),  into being pushed into this precipitate action by the ambitious and much tougher leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who I am afraid will turn out to be the real leader in the campaign which we have ahead of us. 
I am not afraid at all. 
I said nothing of the kind. What is obviously looming is the first city versus country election that we have had in this country. I think that is very unfortunate. 
-No, that is not the way we are going to campaign. It is the way you are going to campaign. It is very interesting to see the alleged charismatic Leader of the Country Party looming up with his little innocent boy smile, which is really much more like the smile on the face of the tiger if one looks at it closely. Behind him is what looks like a little lap dog. He happens to be the aspirant for the leadership of this country, the leader of honourable senators opposite,  Mr Snedden.  If we are to have any sort of foretaste of what is ahead of us I think that honourable senators opposite should feel very uncomfortable. It so happens that I was down near the door of Parliament House yesterday when the Leader of honourable senators opposite, this man, this little mediocrity who aspires to be the Prime Minister of Australia, was cornered near the front door of Parliament House. 
Reluctantly he gave what passed for a Press conference. 
Well, I wish all honourable senators had been there to hear the vapid generalities which passed for a policy from this man of destiny with whom honourable senators are saddled. 
-Let me get back to the Senate. We had from  Senator Drake-Brockman,  the Leader of the Australian Country Party in this place- incidentally, a man for whom I have a lot of affection and who I hope will be back with us- a remark to the effect that he had counted up the broken promises of this Government. He said that the last time he counted he got to something like thirty. Was it more than that Senator? I thought you said thirty. 
-No. I think  Senator Drake-Brockman  is a very worthy representative of the interests which he represents. But those interests which he represents happen to be very narrow. Unfortunately they have dominated every coalition government in this country in the 23 years that Australia has been unfortunate enough to have a LiberalCountry Party coalition government. 
-No. The Australian Democratic Labor Party has really played a very marginal role in the history of this country. It is a role which is about to disappear. 
-To buy? I think that the DLP would be wise not to stress that point at all. What are honourable senators doing? They are denigrating a man whom they put forward to this country as a worthy leader of a party, a man with the loftiest moral principles. But what are they telling us now? They are telling us that throughout that period they had been sold a pup, that this was not really the quality of this man. 
In the interests of the DLP I think that we should draw a veil over the career of their former leader. 
I think his future lies in another sphere. I am sure that we will hear of great triumphs and great diplomatic performances by him over in Ireland. 

 -Mr President, I do not normally need much protection but I think  Senator Little  should allow me just a few moments of silence. I know that he will not have many more opportunities to make a noise in this place. 

 Senator JAMES MCCLELLAND He would indeed. I shall refer to the catalogue of alleged shortcomings which we got from  Senator DrakeBrockman  when he was talking about the Government's 30 broken promises. Surely the public of Australia will not be fooled into thinking that what has been frustrated in this place is to be classified as a broken promise? We came here with the Trade Practices Bill as we promised. We were not allowed to pass it. We come in with the Superior Court of Australia Bill. That also has been swept under the rug. As to the Bill for the implementation of human rights which have been accepted by the United Nations, even though it has not been discussed here that great upholder of law and order,  Senator Greenwood,  indicated in advance that it also would be opposed. So to suggest that we have broken our promise is the greatest travesty of the truth that one could imagine. To be accused of not keeping our promise when the Opposition in the Senate has dedicated all its endeavours to seeing that we are not able to pass the Bills which we have introduced into this Parliament is the greatest messing around with language that I can imagine. One of the oddest things of all about the debate is the suggestion that we are a devious government which trifles with the truth. 
It is very easy to handle.  Senator Greenwood  suggested that this Government is a devious one. But when it comes to dealing with a couple of Supply Bills this honest straightforward Opposition, this Opposition which eschews and deplores deviousness, is not even game to advocate straightforwardly and honestly in the chamber the refusal of Supply. It moves an amendment which is designed to dodge the awsome responsibility which it knows it has if it denies Supply. The amendment is an attempt to persuade the people of Australia that it did not deny Supply. I suggest that it will not fool anybody. I will not go through the tedious detail of the amendment, but if anybody imagines that it had any purpose other than to deny Supply I suggest that he does not understand the meaning of words. 
-To force the Government to an election,  Senator Wright  said. That is what happened, and that is what we welcome. There is nothing we want more. There will be no quibbling about this. When the chips are down the people of Australia will understand that we gladly accept the challange to go to the country, because this election is not about this piddling quibbling amendment. The election is about whether the people of Australia, who elected a government on 2 December 1972 to fulfil a certain program, wish to see that Government have the opportunity to fulfil its program. The idea that this has not been a frustrating Senate and an obstructing Senate is a totally untenable idea. The figures prove that almost 80 per cent of the motions which have come before the Senate have been resolved in favour of the Opposition. 
-A government cannot stand for this, and we will not stand for this. We welcome the opportunity of allowing the people of Australia to express their will again as to whether they want this Government to have the opportunity to carry out the mandate that was given to it. 
It is very reassuring to find that devotion to the truth comes naturally to  Senator Marriott.  I accept his withdrawal in the spirit in which it was given. I would suggest to honourable senators opposite who gather any comfort from the present political situation that they should examine the conflicting statements which have been made by the junior and senior partners in their coalition in the last couple of days. Their proposition is that the great problem confronting the country is inflation. There can be no argument about that. We accept that proposition. It is only when we look at their proposals for the solution of this problem that the sheer vapidity and flaccidity of the Opposition becomes obvious. On the one hand,  Mr Lynch  who, I suppose, according to the Liberals, is the putative Treasurer suggests that there should be a $600m tax concession to people in certain brackets. If we can plough our way through the turgid prose of the putative Prime Minister,  Mr Snedden,  there is a sort of reluctant, half hearted and mixed up agreement with that proposition. But another man who considers that he will have impeccable credentials for the position of Treasurer, the alleged charismatic Leader of the Country Party, the junior or is it the senior partner in the coalition, says that he does not agree with this proposition. 
So what we have been given so far by way of policy from the people who aspire to return to the Treasury benches on which they loafed for 23 years is a very conflicting picture. We have as a recipe for the solution of inflation from the would-be Prime Minister, firstly, the injection of another $600m into the purchasing power of the community. That is an odd recipe for a cure for demand inflation. We have a suggestion that more money should be spent on defence. Where is that to come from? That question was asked by one of the commentators in this morning's Press. There is a variant on the old question: Where is the money coming from? The new variation of that is: Who is the money to be taken from? So we have totally conflicting versions of an answer to this problem coming from  Mr Snedden, Mr Lynch  and  Mr Anthony.  There is not much doubt that their Leader is so stodgy and so unappealing that a man who is thought to have more appeal- the representative of Gunns' Gully.  Mr Anthony-  will be pushed forward as the real leader in this coalition. He will give us a return to pork barrel politics, a demand for the restoration of all the bounties which, I suggest, is in great conflict with the propositions which are put forward by the junior partner, the Liberal Party, to give relief from taxation and at the same time to spend more money on defence. 
So the foretaste which we have had over the last couple of days, I suggest, is the real explanation of the glumness that we see on the faces of honourable senators opposite. I have no doubt that if they could have it all over again they would not have pitchforked themselves into a struggle which, on all the indications, will be fatal to them. That goes especially for the DLP. I have a certain grudging regard for some of the people opposite who have been here for some time, and I think it is quite clear that what we are witnessing, among other things, are the death throes of the DLP as a political identity in this country. I think it is welcomed that the DLP is about to disappear from the Australian political scene. 
I think it is very odd that DLP senators are sitting here digging their own graves and putting on this brave front. 
I am afraid that the bell is finally tolling. If one good thing emerges from this election it will be the disappearance of a party which has been an excrescence on the body politic in this country for so many years. Although I feel supremely confident that as a result of this constitutional turmoil we will get a government which will have not only a majority in the House of Representatives but also in the Senate, we will also have a simplification and a cleansing of Australian politics by the disappearance of this Party which I believe has for so long been a blot on Australian politics. 
I present the following petition from 46 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the undersigned men and women of Australia believe in a Christian way of life; and that no democracy can thrive unless its citizens are responsible and law abiding. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the members in Parliament assembled will see that the powerful communicator, television, is used to build into the nation those qualities of character which make a democracy work- integrity, teamwork and a sense of purpose by serving, and that television be used to bring faith in God to the heart of the family and national life. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I have been provoked into making a brief intervention in this debate by the forensic excesses of  Senator Wright  and by the quaint old fashioned irrelevancies that have just fallen from  Senator Wood.  Dealing firstly with  Senator Wright,  insofar as I could detect some sort of a theme in his over-excited outpourings from the aisle, he seemed to be putting the point that Territorians are not people unlike, presumably, Tasmanians, New South Welshmen or Victorians. I would like him to ponder just one point: From the State of Tasmania which he represents so vociferously, we have in this Parliament 1 5 representatives, counting the ten in the Senate and the five in the other place, for 240,000 voters. For the Northern Territory we have in the Parliament one representative for 30,000 voters. The able logician opposite evidently considers that this is a matter which should be perpetuated in the interests of justice. As they say in the courts, and I am sure  Senator Wright  would understand me, having said that, cadit quaestio 
I turn now to the contribution that we had from  Senator Wood.  He is a man for whom I have respect and affection but I am afraid he has tried our patience a little beyond what we are prepared to stand tonight. All he has really proved to me by reading his speech is- I think all of us would have to concede this-that if we pick up Hansard tomorrow and look at the edited version of what we would like to have said today, all of us read a lot better than we sound. Another thing the honourable senator succeeded in proving tonight is that none of us improve with the passage of the years. What the honourable senator said last year did not sound to me at all that wise tonight.  His  glosses on what he said last year sounded a little inferior to what he said last year. 
There is one other thing I would like to say to  Senator Wood.  Let us have done with this nonsense about the Senate being a States' House and about the founding fathers having enshrined all the wisdom of the ages in what they did. What was appropriate to a small provincial country- a colony of what used to bc called the mother country 74 years ago- is almost irrelevant to the needs of today. Unfortunately we are stuck with a Constitution which those wise founding fathers made it almost impossible to alter. Let us try to change it to bring it up to date if we can. Let us not continue to trunk that in a modern industrial society the horse and buggy is good enough to travel about in. That is what those who praise the founding fathers would have us believe. If we do find it hard to change the Constitution let us not try to pretend that all the wisdom of the ages is enshrined in this already old fashioned document. 
Reference has been made to the Senate as being the States ' House. Please, senators, did not everybody hear the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  say last year that the Opposition has embarked on a deliberate course of bringing down the Government that had just been elected by the majority of the Australian voters? What was meant by that statement? Was it just a tender regard for the interests of the States or was it playing politics at its most blatant? So,  Senator Wood  and other honourable senators, let us have arguments about this or any other legislation that comes here but for God's sake let us have done with this tired old cliche about the Senate being a States' House. The Senate is a place where politics is played at its harshest, its most brutal, and where numbers count much more than States and much more than principles, judging by the way the game is played by honourable senators opposite. So let us discuss this legislation on its merits. Let us forget about this being a States' House. Let us remember the only point that I really rose to make: It does not strike me as being a great defence of democracy to suggest that one representative is enough for 30,000 voters in a territory and that 15 representatives are appropriate for the State from which one happens to come. 
I  present the following petition from 26 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
that for religion to be spiritual, and government to be liberal and egalitarian, religion and government need to be kept separate; 
that this principle is fully recognised in Section 1 16 of the Australian Constitution; 
that the taxing of any citizens to propagate or support any religion is contrary to this principle, and a violation of human right. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that Part II, section 3, of the proposed Bill of Human Rights, which now reads: 
No one shall be subject to coercion which will impair his freedom to have or to adopt a belief or religion of his choice, be amended to read further and no revenue derived in any way from any Australian citizen shall be appropriated by the Australian Government, or by a State Government, or by a Municipal 
Government, for the propagation or support of any religion. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
A petition in identical terms from 3 1 citizens of Australia was presented by  Senator Murphy. 
Petition received. 
It has been refreshing to listen to the calm and reasoned contributions which have come particularly from  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Guilfoyle.  They were contributions of a quality that we are accustomed to hearing from these 2 senators. I regret that I am not able to pay the same tribute to the contribution made by  Senator Webster.  But I state that the general tone of the debate, as set by the other 2 Opposition senators, has been of a very high level. I must admit that listening to what they have had to say has done much to clarify in my mind what this highly important Bill is about. I can also understand the reservations of the honourable senators who have spoken. After all, this Bill represents an entry into a new field by the Australian Government. I can imagine that back in the 1930s the sort of regulation of the banking system which is now accepted without reservation on all sides and by all sections of the community must have had an almost Bolshevist tone to anybody on the conservative side of politics. But I think that there is a relative consensus now amongst thinking people about the necessity for controls on the banking system proper which we have had now for many years. 
This Bill aims to extend this type of regulation into the activities of the non-bank sector in the interests of effective management of the economy. 
I suppose that if a government had wanted to go in for this sort of regulation it might have been possible in the past to rely.on the banking power in the Constitution; because I do not think that it could be denied that many of the institutions which we now seek to cover by this Bill are properly classifiable as banks. However, as has been pointed out by  Senator Guilfoyle,  since the Rocla pipes decision the Australian Government can feel more confident that it can enact a measure like this under the corporations power. It is on this power that this Bill is firmly based. The reason why it is necessary in the submission of this Government- I think that this was largely agreed to by the 2 Opposition senators to whom I have referred- for it to enter this field is the development that has been going on in the Australian economy with regard to the financial structure. As is pointed out in the memorandum which accompanied the Bill, this field has been transformed over recent years by the advent of new financial institutions and by some marked changes in the relative rates of growth of major institutional groups. 
As is pointed out in this document there has been, over the years, a steady decline in the importance of the banking system vis-a-vis these other institutions and a rapid growth of nonbank financial institutions such as finance companies, building societies, merchant banks and money market dealers so I submit that once the principle is accepted- it has been accepted for many years- that in the interests of economic management there has to be some governmental control over the banking system there is no case left against the Government also interfering, if that is the word, or at least claiming to play a role in the regulation of these other institutions which loom so large in modern economies. For that reason the Government has seen fit to rely on this corporations power in order to set up a structure which in this Bill merely lays the ground for some regulation and control of these fringe banks. After all, a careful study of the Bill shows that it really does Utile more than lay down a policy. There is Utile fine print. The actual regulation of these institutions can come only after the information which is sought and which it is made possible for the Government to gather by virtue of some of the clauses of this Bill is in. Until we have this information we do not know exactly how to go about regulating these institutions. 
As the Bill makes clear, the Government also faces the fact that different types of regulation and control will be appropriate for some institutions as distinct from other institutions. It is not suggested that a merchant bank, a building society or any of the other institutions mentioned in the Bill are all of exactly the same nature and that a blanket type of regulation or control is appropriate for each one of them. The policy of the legislation is for the Government or the Reserve Bank and the Treasury to be empowered to' require certain information from these institutions. It is then proposed that the Government will proceed with what it considers necessary in the interests of economic management to institute controls over these organisations. I do not think it has been denied by speakers from the other side that especially in a situation such as the one which the economy faces today any central government requires all the weapons on which it can lay its hands in order to be able to cope with these pressing, difficult and complex economic problems which face every advanced industrial society. 
I believe it would be churlish of an opposition to taunt a government with its failure to handle inflationary problems and at the same time deny it the weapons which the Australian Government seeks to gather to itself by means of this Bill. To their credit Senators Cotton and Guilfoyle have not suggested that the Government does not in fact need some such powers as it is seeking although, as they are entitled as responsible oppositionists, they have certain reservations about the details of what we are seeking. I think that any fears that they or others on the other side might have about the way this Government will use these weapons should be considerably allayed by the way in which it has conducted itself so far in the formulation of this Bill. The Bill has been brought into being only after the most detailed and elaborate consultations with representatives of the institutions affected. As the Bill shows, it is the intention of the Government to maintain this sort of contact, liaison and consultation with the institutions themselves. I need refer only briefly to clauses 30 and 3 1 of the Bill. Clause 30 states: 
The Treasurer may appoint a committee or committees of persons for the purposes of this section and shall appoint at least one such committee. 
The clause proceeds to set out the intention of the Treasurer to have regular consultations with persons affected before framing the regulations which will be necessary to flesh out the skeleton, as this Bill seeks to do. Clause 3 1 states: 
The Reserve Bank shall, from time to time as it considers desirable, consult associations or other bodies representing registered corporations with the object of keeping itself informed of their views in relation to the exercise by the Reserve Bank of its powers under this Act and the regulations and in relation to trends in activities of their members. 
I think I can truthfully say that the manner in which the Government has approached the novel task of introducing some regulation into the activities of these highly important institutions must give some confidence to our critics that we have not embarked lightly on this task and that we will be conscientious in the future in making sure that we are not just regulating or controlling for regulation and controls sake but, in fact, that we will approach our task conscientiously and responsibly and with no intention of destroying or harming these institutions which we freely admit play a highly important role in the mobilisation of capital for the carrying on of enterprises which go to make up this advanced industrial society in which we live. 
Of course, as a final safeguard I point out to honourable senators opposite that the power which resides in this Senate of disallowing regulations remains totally unimpaired. As a member until recently of what I regard as one of the most important institutions of this Parliament, the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee, 1 feel sure that that Committee will be vigilant to see that the regulations which are ultimately introduced pursuant to the scheme of this Bill do not offend against any of the principles which have been established largely by the activities of that Committee over the years. I can imagine that such sturdy watchdogs of the rights of the Parliament and of the institutions of this country as  Senator Wright  will be especially vigilant on that Committee to see that we do not exceed the brief which we are seeking to have conferred on us by this Bill. I suggest to honourable senators opposite that the general tone which has been set by the honourable senators I have mentioned should continue to be maintained in this debate. This is a highly important Bill. Regulation and some measure of control of these institutions are long overdue. I submit that a careful reading of the Bill shows that the Government has adopted a temperate and conscientious approach to its task and that if Parliament continues to be vigilant there is little danger of it exceeding the brief which it seeks in this Bill. 

 - Mr Chairman, those members both of this Parliament and of the general public who have followed today's proceedings with particular attention may have gathered by now that, to coin a phrase, this is an historic occasion. In fact, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  in his quaint way, went even further and called it an historical occasion. I must say that all the speeches confirm my view, which I have long held, that an awful lot of history must have been awfully dull. For that reason, I am grateful to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who, no matter how abhorrent his politics, never manages to be dull, although tonight he was more concerned with the ghosts of the past than he was with the problems of today. 
What is the Opposition's case against the simple proposition that we put, which is that people living in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory, being just as certainly citizens of Australia as are people living in New South Wales or Tasmania, are just as entitled to be represented in both Houses of the national Parliament? 
I will get around to  Senator Greenwood.  Fortunately, as is his wont, he has led with his chin a couple of times, and I will be glad to hang one on him in a moment. Some quite bizarre arguments have been put in support of the Opposition stand against the Government's proposals. Perhaps the most mind-boggling argument that has been advanced was that which was put by  Senator Drake-Brockman  in the Senate on 14 November 1973 when this matter was debated there. He said  ... the Senate is a States House and the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are not States. 
I do not want to debate the question of whether the Senate is just a States House. I suggest that this is a tired old cliche which is constantly being trotted out as some justification for the Senate's existence. I merely ask honourable members to ponder the statement made on 10 April last, the last day of sitting of the previous Parliament, by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  who made a highly instructive remark. 
-He must constantly be reminded of this statement. It is nice to know that he has not repented. He said: 
We embarked on a course some 12 months ago-I am not trying to be provocative- to bring about the House of Representatives election. 
I take it from his interjection a moment ago that he does not resile from that extraordinary confession. Are they the words of a zealous custodian of States rights or are they the words of a jugular vein politician who is determined to use the Senate merely to reverse the freely expressed will of the people of Australia? But forgetting this States House fantasy for the moment, let us examine  Senator Drake-Brockman  's proposal more closely. Does it not come down to this: Because the Australian Capital Territory did not exist and in fact was not even in contemplation, and because the Northern Territory had only a handful of inhabitants at the time that the founding fathers wrote the Constitution, the citizens of these 2 areas of Australia are forever to be denied equality of representation in the national Parliament. What foundation in logic is there for a proposition like that? Are not Territorians people? What is there about living in a State rather than a Territory which makes a citizen - 

 -Mr Chairman, I was about to ask: What is there about living in a State rather than a Territory which makes a citizen need more protection against the depredations of the wicked House of Representatives? Those opposite must either abandon the arguments that were put by  Senator DrakeBrockman  or forget the fiction that the Senate is a States House, a fiction which was well and truly demolished this afternoon by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby). 
In a period when our institutions are creaking at every joint, the last refuge of the idolators of the status quo is an appeal to the founding fathers- those wise men who brought the commandments down from the mount and gave us a prescription for running our affairs, a prescription which  Senator Greenwood  would have is eternal and unchangeable, like the sun rising in the east and setting in the west. In this case, even an appeal to the founding fathers will avail them nothing. As  Senator Murphy  so aptly demonstrated today, it is quite clear that the founding fathers envisaged just such a situation as the Government is facing in this legislation. I do not know whether members opposite have bothered to read section 122 of the Constitution, but it states: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the 
Commonwealth, or of any Territory placed by the Queen under the authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
What else is the Government attempting to do but to carry out the clear intention of that section? Perhaps it will be argued that the Territories are already adequately represented. I have, in fact, heard that argument advanced in the Senate. 
Just as a matter of arithmetic, what justice is to be found in these figures: 240,000 Tasmanian voters elect 15 representatives to the national Parliament; 95,000 Canberra voters elect 2 representatives to the national Parliament; and 30,000 Northern Territorians elect one representative to the national Parliament? We have been constantly twitted on what the Opposition appears to regard as some great logical inconsistency: that what we are putting up in this Bill represents some sort of departure from the principle of one vote one value which guides us in these things. What is the implication in the denial by the Opposition of a right to vote for the Senate to those numbers I have mentioned? What members opposite are saying is that, so far as the Senate is concerned, 100,000 votes in the ACTU should have no value. I should have said A.C.T. 
The only other argument worthy of the name which has been advanced against the Government's stand on this matter was raised by that doughty traditionalist,  Senator Greenwood,  and repeated, I am sad to say, by a much more worthy representative of this Parliament, my friend  Mr Killen,  the honourable member for Moreton. That argument is that there is some inconsistency in a government whose policy is to abolish the Senate advocating its enlargement. Every day that I spend in this Parliament increases the strength of my belief in the need to abolish the Senate. Despite  Senator Greenwood  's disclaimer of obstruction by the Senate, his Leader,  Senator Withers,  let the cat out of the bag in the statement I referred to earlier. 
On this very Bill some Opposition senators voted differently from their colleagues in the House of Representatives. It will be recalled that when the motion for the second reading of the Bill was agreed to by the House of Representatives on 29 May 1973 it was carried by 78 votes to 43 votes. Seventeen members of the Country Party crossed the floor and voted with the Government, the other 3 members of the Country Party being absent when the vote was taken. Yet, when the vote on the motion for the second reading of the Bill was taken in the Senate all 5 
Country Party senators voted against the Bill. Obviously, despite what their Party thought of the merits of this Bill, the Country Party senators were persuaded by  Senator Withers  to join his squalid conspiracy against democratic government. So much for the question whether the Senate has been obstructionist. Of course it has been obstructionist, and it is quite clear that it will continue to be so to the detriment of democratic government in this country. 
For this reason, and in order that democracy may have a chance to survive in this country, I firmly believe in the abolition of the Senate. I hope that one day the abuse of power by the Opposition senators will persuade voters that the Senate is dispensable. But we have to be realistic, and it is quite clear that that time has not yet arrived. We have to face the fact that the Senate unfortunately will be here for some time. We on the Government side believe that if we have to have a Senate we should try to make it a House which is a little more representative of the Australian people. For that reason, while feeling nothing but disenchantment with the Senate, as I think a growing number of the Australian people are feeling, I support the Government's proposals. 

 -Mr Chairman, those members both of this Parliament and of the general public who have followed today's proceedings with particular attention may have gathered by now that, to coin a phrase, this is an historic occasion. In fact, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  in his quaint way, went even further and called it an historical occasion. I must say that all the speeches confirm my view, which I have long held, that an awful lot of history must have been awfully dull. For that reason, I am grateful to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who, no matter how abhorrent his politics, never manages to be dull, although tonight he was more concerned with the ghosts of the past than he was with the problems of today. 
What is the Opposition's case against the simple proposition that we put, which is that people living in the Australian Capital Territory and in the Northern Territory, being just as certainly citizens of Australia as are people living in New South Wales or Tasmania, are just as entitled to be represented in both Houses of the national Parliament? 
I will get around to  Senator Greenwood.  Fortunately, as is his wont, he has led with his chin a couple of times, and I will be glad to hang one on him in a moment. Some quite bizarre arguments have been put in support of the Opposition stand against the Government's proposals. Perhaps the most mind-boggling argument that has been advanced was that which was put by  Senator Drake-Brockman  in the Senate on 14 November 1973 when this matter was debated there. He said   the Senate is a States House and the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are not States. 
I do not want to debate the question of whether the Senate is just a States House. I suggest that this is a tired old cliche which is constantly being trotted out as some justification for the Senate's existence. I merely ask honourable members to ponder the statement made on 10 April last, the last day of sitting of the previous Parliament, by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  who made a highly instructive remark. 
-He must constantly be reminded of this statement. It is nice to know that he has not repented. He said: 
We embarked on a course some 12 months ago-I am not trying to be provocative-to bring about the House of Representatives election. 
I take it from his interjection a moment ago that he does not resile from that extraordinary confession. Are they the words of a zealous custodian of States rights or are they the words of a jugular vein politician who is determined to use the Senate merely to reverse the freely expressed will of the people of Australia? But forgetting this States House fantasy for the moment, let us examine  Senator Drake-Brockman  's proposal more closely. Does it not come down to this: Because the Australian Capital Territory did not exist and in fact was not even in contemplation, and because the Northern Territory had only a handful of inhabitants at the time that the founding fathers wrote the Constitution, the citizens of these 2 areas of Australia are forever to be denied equality of representation in the national Parliament. What foundation in logic is there for a proposition like that? Are not Territorians people? What is there about living in a State rather than a Territory which makes a citizen - 

 -Mr Chairman, I was about to ask: What is there about living in a State rather than a Territory which makes a citizen need more protection against the depredations of the wicked House of Representatives? Those opposite must either abandon the arguments that were put by  Senator DrakeBrockman  or forget the fiction that the Senate is a States House, a fiction which was well and truly demolished this afternoon by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry (  Mr Enderby). 
In a period when our institutions are creaking at every joint, the last refuge of the idolators of the status quo is an appeal to the founding fathers- those wise men who brought the commandments down from the mount and gave us a prescription for running our affairs, a prescription which  Senator Greenwood  would have is eternal and unchangeable, like the sun rising in the east and setting in the west. In this case, even an appeal to the founding fathers will avail them nothing. As  Senator Murphy  so aptly demonstrated today, it is quite clear that the founding fathers envisaged just such a situation as the Government is facing in this legislation. I do not know whether members opposite have bothered to read section 122 of the Constitution, but it states: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the 
Commonwealth, or of any Territory placed by the Queen under the authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
What else is the Government attempting to do but to carry out the clear intention of that section? Perhaps it will be argued that the Territories are already adequately represented. I have, in fact, heard that argument advanced in the Senate. 
Just as a matter of arithmetic, what justice is to be found in these figures: 240,000 Tasmanian voters elect 15 representatives to the national Parliament; 95,000 Canberra voters elect 2 representatives to the national Parliament; and 30,000 Northern Territorians elect one representative to the national Parliament? We have been constantly twitted on what the Opposition appears to regard as some great logical inconsistency: that what we are putting up in this Bill represents some sort of departure from the principle of one vote one value which guides us in these things. What is the implication in the denial by the Opposition of a right to vote for the Senate to those numbers I have mentioned? What members opposite are saying is that, so far as the Senate is concerned, 100,000 votes in the ACTU should have no value. I should have said A.C.T. 
The only other argument worthy of the name which has been advanced against the Government's stand on this matter was raised by that doughty traditionalist,  Senator Greenwood,  and repeated, I am sad to say, by a much more worthy representative of this Parliament, my friend  Mr Killen,  the honourable member for Moreton. That argument is that there is some inconsistency in a government whose policy is to abolish the Senate advocating its enlargement. Every day that I spend in this Parliament increases the strength of my belief in the need to abolish the Senate. Despite  Senator Greenwood's  disclaimer of obstruction by the Senate, his Leader,  Senator Withers,  let the cat out of the bag in the statement I referred to earlier. 
On this very Bill some Opposition senators voted differently from their colleagues in the House of Representatives. It will be recalled that when the motion for the second reading of the Bill was agreed to by the House of Representatives on 29 May 1973 it was carried by 78 votes to 43 votes. Seventeen members of the Country Party crossed the floor and voted with the Government, the other 3 members of the Country Party being absent when the vote was taken. Yet, when the vote on the motion for the second reading of the Bill was taken in the Senate all 5 
Country Party senators voted against the Bill. Obviously, despite what their Party thought of the merits of this Bill, the Country Party senators were persuaded by  Senator Withers  to join his squalid conspiracy against democratic government. So much for the question whether the Senate has been obstructionist. Of course it has been obstructionist, and it is quite clear that it will continue to be so to the detriment of democratic government in this country. 
For this reason, and in order that democracy may have a chance to survive in this country, I firmly believe in the abolition of the Senate. I hope that one day the abuse of power by the Opposition senators will persuade voters that the Senate is dispensable. But we have to be realistic, and it is quite clear that that time has not yet arrived. We have to face the fact that the Senate unfortunately will be here for some time. We on the Government side believe that if we have to have a Senate we should try to make it a House which is a little more representative of the Australian people. For that reason, while feeling nothing but disenchantment with the Senate, as I think a growing number of the Australian people are feeling, I support the Government's proposals. 
I refer the Attorney-General to a report in this morning's Melbourne 'Age' that 1 1 juveniles at present are detained in Fannie Bay Gaol in Darwin. Is tins report correct ? If so, why are these children so detained? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Has the Minister seen Press reports of a recent television interview in which the Managing Director of the Mainline Corporation,  Mr Baker,  claimed that Government Ministers, including the Prime Minister, the Treasurer and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs actively promoted the demise of that company? Is that a fair assertion? Did, in fact, the Government cold-bloodedly determine that Mainline should not survive? Did the Government actually assist in bringing Mainline down? Were the former employees of the Mainline Corporation left out on a limb or were steps taken to protect their interests? 
Perhaps I could add something on this.  Senator Durack  actually spoke to me this morning about the matter which he has now raised. In my capacity as  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, I immediately set in train the preparation of an interim report from the Committee on what has happened in respect of the general reference. I understand from the Secretary of the Committee that this interim report is in an advanced stage and will be circulated- if it has not already been circulated- to members of the Committee this afternoon. It was my intention to suggest that the Hansard report of the Committee proceedings, containing all of the evidence and submissions to which  Senator Durack  has referred, should be annexed to this interim report. In that way the Senate, in debating the second reading of the Family Law Bill, would have the advantage of the matter which has been considered by the Committee up to date on the general philosophy of matrimonial causes legislation. The Hansard record would not include the evidence which we took only last week in Melbourne from a couple of experts including  Mr Watson,  Q.C., who has been referred to, because that is a separate transcript. I see no objection to that being included. On reflection perhaps there is an objection, seeing that this goes to the specific examination of the clauses of the Bill. So perhaps the latest Hansard record of the proceedings should not be included in the interim report. But I suggest that the Hansard record of the deliberations and evidence taken by the Committee with respect to the general reference relating to matrimonial causes should be available to the Senate when this matter is being debated at the second reading stage. 

 - Senator Carrick has just treated the Senate to a most bizarre exercise in logic which went something like this: He said that because I spoke in this place last year against the suppression of freedom in Russia I must conclude, without evidence, that Ermolenko was taken prisoner in Perth by the Russian secret police and prevented from exercising his free will as to whether he would stay in Australia or leave for Russia. I am not naive enough to suggest that the Russian secret police would not be capable of such an exercise. All I am saying is that I need more than  Senator Carrick  's assertion to accept it as proven fact. Of course, he offered no such evidence. It may seem curious to some honourable senators that, at a time when the Opposition is asserting that the Australian economy is in a situation of acute crisis, it finds time to play to the Senate today a tired old barrel organ tune entitled 'Variations on a Theme by Joe McCarthy'. Of course, this is a theme that has helped honourable senators opposite in the past to win elections. It is most noticeable that every now and then they are seized with the nostalgia to repeat this formula which, unfortunately for them, no longer works. 
Today's variation to this theme goes something like this: The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is contemplating a visit to the Soviet Union at the end of this year. Accordingly, for some strange reason which is not immediately apparent to me, it is therefore necessary for him to toady to the Soviet Union. Illustrations of this, unsupported by evidence, are that his Government through his Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  prevented a would-be defector from leaving this country. Also, out of the blue, we as a government grant de jure recognition to Russia's annexation of the Baltic states. This is set in the context of some sort of plot. As I say, it is a variation on a tired and familiar old theme. Somehow or other, while professing to be democratic socialists, we are, according to the Opposition, really tarred with the communist brush. According to them, it is not surprising that we should be giving this further illustration on the eve of the Prime Minister's visit to Russia. We are asked seriously to believe that, if the Prime Minister did not do this, somehow or other he might not be able to go to Russia; that he would not be welcome there. I do not know whether  Senator Greenwood  and those who espouse this proposition also suggest that in some way there is something indecent about this Government attempting to improve its relations with Russia. I thought this was an underlying idea which was not spelt out but which lies deep in the psyche of the Russia haters across the floor. 
Let us examine in some detail the ingredients of this charge. It has three separate wings. The first is that in denial of human rights and contrary to the rule of law we did what we did in relation to Ermolenko. Let us look at this proposition of the denial of human rights. This was given some emphasis by a well known, well authenticated and familiar defender of human rights in the form of a former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood.  I think the lawyer in him would agree that this charge, in order to be established, demands first of all that Ermolenko be proved beyond doubt to have wished to stay in Australia. I listened closely to what  Senator Greenwood  had to say. He talked about a female journalist calling out, presumably in English, to this young Russian as he emerged from an hotel and asking whether he wished to return to Russia and his answering 'No'. This is a standard of proof which falls somewhat short of the standard of proof that  Senator Greenwood  was demanding of us in the controversy surrounding the Ustasha and the Croatian terrorists in this country. 
Senators who followed that debate- it was a long, continuing debate- will recall that  Senator Greenwood  was constantly demanding that we on this side of the chamber should not indulge in loose accusations and that we should come up with hard evidence before we dared to make any such accusations.  His  standards change when he comes to attempt to make this charge of a denial of human rights stick in the Senate today. He used such emotive phrases as 'spirited out of this country' and 'made to do things against his will'. I suggest that in order to establish the first leg of his argument- namely, that there has been a denial of human rights- this demanding lawyer carries an onus of proof which he has not discharged. He has been content with impressions, with hearsay and with matters which by any standards, let alone a lawyer's standards, fall far short of satisfying the onus of proof that Ermolenko was denied any human rights. I suggest that we can put aside any serious consideration of that part of  Senator Greenwood's  argument. 
This brings me to examine the curious insensitivity which honourable senators opposite have shown to the human aspects of this story. Here was a young artist, a young man aged 18 years. We may assume that he has not spent much of his life outside his own country. We may assume that he would be impressionable, as most sensitive young men of his years are. He finds himself in the beautiful city of Perth. An honourable senator from this side who spoke earlier forbore to become lyrical about his own native city, but I am sure that if he had adverted to this he would have found in the beauties of his own city a large explanation. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner in discussing the Opposition's censure motion on the handling of the Ermolenko affair by the Minister for Foreign Affairs I was considering the situation of an impressionable 18-year old violinist finding himself for the first time in the beautiful exhilarating City of Perth- a city which numbers among its favourite sons such diverse characters as  Senator Wheeldon,  Lang Hancock, Bob Hawke - 
-The egregious Alan Bond. Also I might mention, so as not to be accused as being a sexist, our own fair  Senator Ruth  Coleman. 
I would think that  Mr Snedden  also rates a mention although he could be considered an expatriate, could he not?  Mr Snedden  is a fugitive from the talented circles I have just mentioned. He went to Victoria. I was suggesting that in considering this matter the Opposition had been peculiarly insensitive to the human aspects of this matter. The fact that Ermolenko may have been so carried away by the novel circumstances in which he found himself that he may have expressed a desire to remain in Australia evidently blinds the Opposition to the eminently believable proposition that he may also, soon afterwards, have freely changed his mind. It is not at all surprising that a young man could have been temporarily persuaded that he wanted to live in this country or, indeed, in any country other than the one from which he had come. It is a sort of naive simplification of human complexity that leads the Opposition into believing that because Russia is a country with manifest shortcomingsshortcomings to which I have adverted in previous debates in this chamber- people who have an opportunity to leave Russia must clutch at the first opportunity that comes along to get out of the place. 
Speakers on the Opposition side have referred repeatedly in this debate and in previous debates to the case of Solzhenitsyn. Surely we could get no better illustration of" the point that I am attempting to make. If there is anybody who has reason to underline the negative aspects of Soviet society it is Solzhenitsyn. He is a man who went to war, was taken prisoner of war, came back to his own country and was immediately exiled to the harshest of concentration camps, spent many years in hardship in these concentration camps - 
-Senator, I wish you would listen to me and you would understand. 
-No, I did not say that,  Senator. Would  you please listen to me? 
I said if ever there was a Soviet citizen who had reason to understand and to underline the negative aspects of Soviet society, it was Solzhenitsyn. He was a man who underwent all these hardships, a man who wrote about these hardships, a man who was persecuted for his beliefs and a man who had to circulate his literary works in the Soviet underground. Yet, despite all those hardships this was a man who had to be forcibly ejected from his native country. Despite everything that he had undergone in the Soviet Union, Solzhenitsyn still regarded it quite clearly as a severe punishment to be expelled from the Soviet Union. 
I also refer honourable senators to the works of another great Soviet literary dissident. I refer to Boris Pasternak, the author of  Dr Zhivago  and of many other less known works, including translations of Shakespeare and other poets. Pasternak was a man who also suffered from the repressive regime of the Soviet Union. In case honourable senators on the other side of the chamber have not got the message that we on this side understand fully- and understood before them- the repressive nature of Soviet society, I would like to point out that Pasternak was writing long before Solzhenitsyn. He was a critic of the Soviet regime. But anybody who has read his works must be impressed with his passionate love of his own country and with the intense patriotism of this man who was fully conscious of all of the shortcomings of the Soviet regime. If the Opposition senators had this human understanding of the problems of Soviet citizens who hate the repression of the Soviet regime but who still love their country, they would not take nearly such a simplistic view of the vacillations of this young man or of this little human tragedy which, to the members of the Opposition apparently, was just a matter of an opportunity to score some political advantage against the Government. This man as I see it, this young impressionable artistic man, went through agonies for a few days. First of all he thought he would like to stay here but I think- I have no more conclusive evidence than the Opposition has- quite believably, he finally decided that with all its shortcomings, he wanted to go back to his native land. 
I am glad the honourable senator said that. I do not pontificate on this. I do not presume to understand finally and to be able to prove in the sense that  Senator Greenwood  is always insisting I prove. I do not claim - 
-He should. I will come to the other question about being contrary to the rule of law and the proceedings in the law courts in the course of examining this question. I say that none of us sitting here in our ivory tower are entitled to pontificate on the agonies of this young man and to suggest that any of us has any positive evidence about his final wish. To suggest that anybody is in possession of evidence that he was kidnapped by the secret police and that our humane, tolerant, non-fanatical Minister for Foreign Affairs whose record will stand up to the epithets that I have attached to him was somehow acting as a stooge of the Soviet Union and went along with the idea of a kidnapping so that our Prime Minister would have a red carpet when he went to Moscow is in my view in the realm of spy fiction fantasy land. 
-Senator Greenwood is one who has asserted, as a man who insists on hard evidence before anyone is to be convicted, that the evidence is overwhelmingly in favour of the proposition that this man was dragged away from Australia against his free will. 
I remind the honourable senator that he went much further than that. I took a note of his ipsissima verba.  Senator Greenwood  spoke of this man being spirited out of this country and made to do things against his will. 
-You did not say that,  Senator. 
Yes, I will. My recollection is that  Senator Greenwood  asserted positively that there was evidence upon which we should form a judgment that this man was spirited out of this country against his will. I say that the evidence does not go anywhere near that. Looking at this matter in a human light, it is eminently understandable that this young man, having on the spur of the moment decided that he wanted to stay in Australia, without any pressure from GPU men and without any pressure being exerted on the Australian authorities to intervene, could have changed his mind and decided that in the final analysis and on balance he preferred to go back to his own native country. That, I say, is supported by the evidence of the conduct, behaviour and literary works of men who have suffered, as presumably he had not suffered, at the hands of the regime in the Soviet Union. I do not find it difficult to believe- as I said, I have no more positive evidence than honourable senators opposite have- and I do not find it at all incomprehensible that this man would have decided to go back to the Soviet Union of his own free will. 
The second leg of the charge against us is that what was done by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and by this Government was contrary to the rule of law. I do not think I need to labour this proposition, because the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  amply demolished this argument in his speech before the suspension of the sitting for dinner. As I understood  Senator Greenwood,  what he was putting was the extraordinary proposition that when a bunch of citizens with good intentions, with the best intentions in the world, but without any instructions - 
-As a lawyer  Senator Greenwood  knows what I mean by instructions'. It means a direction from a client to take action on his behalf. The proposition put by  Senator Greenwood,  as a lawyer and not only as a senator, is that when a bunch of well intentioned citizens, without instructions from the foreign national involved, launches proceedings affecting him in an Australian court, the Government of Australia is thereupon prevented from taking any action in the matter until the court gives its decision. Indeed,  Senator Durack,  another lawyer as well as being a senator, in a debate in this place on 13 August when this matter was hot and when the young man was in Perth going through this agony, went further and suggested that the Australian Government was duty bound to prevent him from leaving this country. 
I suggest that  Senator Young's  lawyer colleagues have made a sufficient mess of this proposition without his weighing in as a layman.  Mr President,  I think I have said sufficient about the first arm of this motion. I turn now to the second item in the motion which seeks to censure the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, by implication, the Government in these terms: in breach of a clear undertaking to the contrary given by the Prime Minister the Government shamefully and furtively extended recognition to the in corporation of the Baltic states in the U.S.S.R., the Minister withholding any announcement or explanation of the decision. 

 Mr President, I say quite frankly that I get no pleasure at all from this de jure recognition of the Baltic states and frankly I wish it had not been done. 
Opposition senators- Hear, hear! 
-But before honourable senators opposite become too comforted by that concession I point out that certain elements in the Liberal and Country Parties have always exploited, in a quite unconscionable way, the longings for independence of the Baltic peoples. Every year, on what is called Captive Nations Day or Captive Nations Week, we have been subjected to the spectacle of the more rabid members of the conservative coalition turning up in the highly emotive atmosphere of these gatherings and addressing the Lithuanians, the Latvians and the Estonians. 
Is  Senator Young  suggesting that this is not true? Has he heard of  Mr Darby?  Has he heard of  Mr Wentworth?  has he heard of ex-Senator Hannan? Is he suggesting that his representatives do not go along and inflame these people with expectations that, as  Senator Wheeldon  put it, we will be raising an expeditionary force on their behalf to go and liberate them from foreign domination? 
In a rational moment today  Senator Greenwood  conceded that the only hope for independence of the Estonians, the Lithuanians and the Latvians was in the aftermath of a cataclysm. As  Senator Wheeldon  freely, generously and sincerely conceded today, we on this side of the Senate believe that these people should be free. They are victims of history, as are the Czechoslovakians, the Poles and various other people. The Irish, at a certain stage and for a large part of their history, the Chinese and the Indians also were victims of history. They happened to be so situated that they were overrun by foreign conquerors and only short periods of their national lives have been spent in conditions of independence. But let us not play games about this. The only time that subjected nations such as these gain their liberty is when their tyrants, their oppressors, are in difficulties. 
As  Senator Greenwood  conceded, the only hope that these Baltic people have of being independent of their present oppressors- I freely concede that the Russians are their oppressors; I do not mince words about that- is in the aftermath of some cataclysm which I trust none of us here is barracking for, because the consequences of such a cataclysm would be not only the liberation of the Baltic peoples but also more likely than not the destruction of Western civilisation. So, as a matter of reality, we say that we have no power to free these people. We do not go along to their Captive Nations gatherings and imply, as ex-Senator Hannan,  Mr Darby  and  Mr Wentworth  do, that in some way or other our sympathy with them and our advocacy of their cause will take the foreign yoke from their necks. We do not fool them. We do not play around at these games. 
I have conceded that I wish this had not happened. But, after all, we are not in such disreputable company. Did we hear any condemnation from the other side of politics in this country when Britain hastened to recognise Communist China in 1 949, long before any other country did? 
-Sir Magnus Cormack says 'Yes'. I would like to examine the record of his condemnation of that conduct. I will freely withdraw that comment if  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack can show me evidence of his condemnation of a premature recognition of Communist China by Britain. However, I suggest that this sort of thing, unwelcome as it is, is something that has happened in world history and somehow or other the indignation now being expressed by Liberal and Country Party senators - 
-By the way, I said 'Country Party senators'; but curiously enough we have not heard from them. Maybe they do not share the fanatical view of the Liberals on this matter. As I said, one detects, especially in the remarks of  Senator Greenwood,  that he finds it reprehensible that this Government should seek to be on good terms with Russia. After all, in the simplistic view of politics which one has come to associate with his name, Russians are baddies; they are communists; they have a bad record of oppression; they are not people of whom  Senator Greenwood  could possibly approve. We do not approve of them either. We on this side of the Senate do not in any way condone the horrors that have been perpetrated in the name of socialism in the Soviet Union. In fact, if anything our horror is greater than that of those on the Opposition side because we believe that in many ways the Russians have sold out many of the things in which we believe but in which people on the Opposition side do not believe. We believe that it is possible to have a just society without the oppression that has been practised in the Soviet Union and we are not heard to condone the tyranny that is practised in that country on individuals or in Russia's relationships with other countries. If only life were so simple that countries would recognise only countries of whose regimes they approved. Unfortunately life is not like that at all. Although, as I have frankly conceded, I do not like what has happened, I ask honourable senators to contemplate that we have done no damage to the Baltic peoples and have not altered their place in the real world. I would have preferred that we had not wounded their susceptibilities, but I submit that the terms of this motion are hysterical and hypocritical. Because we recognise the incorporation of the Baltic states we are taunted that we are somehow tainted with communism while the Liberals are the upholders of freedom- not undifferentiated upholders of freedom. Their views do not extend, for instance, to the blacks in Rhodesia or the Bantus in South Africa. 
In closing I suggest that we get this proposition in perspective. It is a rather unpleasant little piece of real politic, but it does not adversely affect the real position of anybody inside or outside the Baltic states. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (8.22)- Before I discuss the matters that are engaging the attention of the Senate at the moment, I must refer to the observations made by  Senator James  McClelland which drew his attention to me. He referred not only to Solzhenitsyn 's recently published book 'Gulag Archipelago', but also to 'Cancer Ward', 'First Circle' and 'One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich'.  Senator James  McClelland used the delightful phrase 'the negative aspects of Russian life'. I draw attention to this phrase because it is a piece of pure Marxist dialectic. It means that the positive comes from the negative- that is to say, if it had not been for the system of the negative aspects of Russian life, Russia would not have achieved anything positive. That is the real meaning of that phrase. It is just sheer double-talk. The 'National Times' apparently invited the polemist of the Communist Party of Australia to do a critical review of 'Gulag Archipelago'. The article appears in the edition of 19 August 1974. This week it attracted a long letter which I do not intend to read. 
The article is a crafty combination of what may euphemistically becalled deliberate misquotations, irrelevancies and non-sequiturs, all in the finest traditions of Marxist-Leninist polemics. 
The final paragraph is significant and I commend it to  Senator James  McClelland for his further ruminations. It states: 
The Gulag Archipelago' will serve best as a memorial to the martyrs of Russia 's past and it will do this if it prevents the West from being lulled into becoming the martyrs of the future. 
I now address myself to the third paragraph of the motion, which states: 
that the foreign policy alignments he- 
That is,  Senator Willesee-  is promoting will not serve Australia 's national interests. 

 Senator Willesee and I have been members of the Senate for many years. I think that he has learned in that time that I hold for him a personal affection, and I still maintain it. But I do not accept and have never accepted-  Senator Willesee,  I am sure, would be the first to agree with me- his view on foreign policies. I fundamentally disagree with them and have done so since I first met  Senator Willesee  in 1 95 1.I have said before in the Senate that a nation's foreign policy should be the policy which is best directed to serve the national interest. It is a successful policy only if it preserves and serves the national interest. The first element must be the protection of the interests of the nation, including its capacity to defend itself. It is against that background that any analysis or examination must be made in the context of a foreign policy. I am in the difficulty- all honourable senators on this side have been in the difficulty- of attempting to find out what is the real foreign policy of this country since December 1972. Only by a process of deduction can one discover the clues which will lead to what Australia foreign policy really is. 
The next thing that honourable senators must realise is that we know we are living in a world of detente- that is to say, we are living at a time of pause in the relationships and competition between the 2 great superpowers. We may be indeed the beneficiaries of detente between the 2 great powers. But what is detente? It is no more than a pause. It is a most fragile web that has been spun by one man-  Dr Kissinger. 
The next clue that one can get is that some 12 months ago in answer to a question, as I recall it,  Senator Willesee  said that our foreign policymeaning the foreign policy of his Government -is based upon fraternal relations and not paternal relations. Fraternal relations with whom and with what fraternal party? Of course, this becomes clear as the debate continues.  Senator James  McClelland just mentioned that the fraternal relationships are the fraternal relationships with fellow socialist parties or as he said, splitting hairs, with socialist democratic parties. So I must assume now that our relationship is a unilateral relationship with friendly socialist nations and not with the nations with which we have been in the habit of having relationships in terms of alliances in the past and nations which have a cultural kinship with us. They are the nations where the concepts of law and order, justice and the rights of free men and freedom of speech are maintained. The policy is being changed over to a relationship with socialist democratic nations, and I cannot think of one of those nations at the present time which do not have concentration camps and which are not sustained by a military dictatorship. 
I would also say that it is the policy - referring to  Dr Evatt  's foreign policy- which Australian governments of the future will be forced to follow whether it is their inclination or not. 
Finally he said: 
His most notable achievement in foreign affairs was that he formulated and implemented for Australia a truly national foreign policy; the only kind of foreign policy any country worth its salt can have. 
That is what he was saying and that is what the Government is saying. What was  Dr Evatt  trying to do?  Dr Evatt  believed that Australia's foreign policy should be founded on the basis of formulating a foreign policy sustained and based upon the United Nations. He also believed that the United Nations should be controlled and conducted by the small countries and that it should attempt to curb and take power away from the 5 great superpowers which have the power of veto inside the United Nations Organisation and which, in essence, provide the sinews with which the peace of the world can be sustained. That was  Dr Evatt  's theorem. In the process he became  President  of the United Nations. This caused an enormous amount of activity in the small Australian foreign service at that time. 
We opened embassies all around the world and particularly in South America. I think that we opened 5 embassies in South America. Eventually, amongst the small nations, Australia was able to muster enough votes to enable  Dr Evatt  to be elected as the  President  of the United Nations. I do not think that anyone looking back over his shoulder- except the writer of the article to which I have just referred- would regard  Dr Evatt  's foreign policy as being very substantial. But that is not the point. The point is that this afternoon  Senator Wheeldon  said that the Australian foreign policy is directed towards attempting to have my friend  Senator Willesee  elected as the  President  of the United Nations. It has been accompanied over the last 12 months by a galvanic effort to increase the number of missions and legations that we have throughout the world. 
Recently a delegation from the Committee of Twenty-four was invited to Australia. It is an illegal committee of the United Nations. What was that delegation invited here to do? It was invited to inspect sovereign parts of Australia. It was invited to come and look at the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. When one of the delegates was interviewed here in Canberra he was asked what right he had to be interfering in the internal affairs of a sovereign nation. He said: 'We can do what we like'. As far as I am concerned, they cannot do what they like. 
I present an interim report and transcript of evidence from the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on its inquiry into the law and administration of divorce and related matters and the Family Law Bill 1974.I move: 
That the report be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Senator JAMES McCLELLAND (New South Wales)- I seek leave to make a brief statement relating to the interim report. 
I seek leave to make a statement on a report which I presented yesterday. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has seen newsagency reports that the French Foreign Minister announced in the United Nations General Assembly on 23 September last that France has finished atmospheric nuclear testing and would conduct further experiments underground. Is this true? Also, is Australia still pursuing its proceedings in the International Court of Justice concerning atmospheric nuclear tests by France? 

 - Mr President, I present the report of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the law and administration of divorce and related matters and the Family Law BUI 1974. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
I present the following petition from 141 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled : The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can. assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I must confess that I was somewhat taken aback yesterday by  Senator Greenwood  's readiness to give a considered opinion about a document which, on his own admission, had been in his hands a couple of minutes. I can only hope for the sake of his clients that his legal opinions are based on a longer examination of the facts. 
-Senator Webster obviously needs no enlightenment on these matters but seeing that a member on the other side of the chamber has asked me for some information I assume that other honourable senators would like to hear what I have to say. One of the things that was said by  Senator Greenwood  was that copies of the Bill had not been readily available for consideration by people who might be opposed to it. I would remind honourable senators, including  Senator 
Webster, that the Bill which we are now considering and which was considered by the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs is identical in the matters to which exception is taken to a Bill which was introduced in this Senate on 13 December 1973. The present Bill, it is true, differs in some particulars from that Bill but the gravamen of the complaints against this Bill is about the one ground of irretrievable breakdown that is introduced in place of the guilt grounds which at present exist in the matrimonial law. This section of the Bill which the Committee has been considering is the same as that introduced in December 1973. The Bill was also introduced in April 1 974 but it could not be considered because of certain events with which we are all familiar. Is it seriously suggested now by anybody, including  Senator Greenwood,  that somehow or other the opponents of this Bill have been ambushed and have had no opportunity to consider it? Such a suggestion certainly will not stand up to any sort of scrutiny. Abundant copies of the report, which was introduced yesterday will be available to members of the general public. Those who are opposed to the Bill will have abundant opportunity to study the report and to lobby members of the Senate or of the other place in opposition to it. No attempt has been made or is being made by anybody to ambush the opponents of this Bill. 
The suggestion has been made that we were limited in our consideration of the Bill by the mere fact that we did not invite members of the public who were opposed to the Bill to put in submissions on the general philosophy of matrimonial law. I suggest that all honourable senators who entertain that doubt seriously should examine the report, which sets out in detail the submissions which were available to the Committee in reaching its conclusions on this Bill. 
I invite  Senator Carrick  to have a look at the report. 
I will answer the honourable senator. The reference made to this Committee on 16 August, inviting us to make a report on the Bill, was such that we were asked to report to the Senate on the clauses of the Bill by 18 September 1974. Is it seriously suggested that we should have sent out a message inviting the whole world to put in submissions, given people time to put in their missions 
-Yes. If the honourable senator looks at the report he will see that back in 1971- 

 -Yes, Mr President. We did advertise and we received voluminous submissions, all of which were considered by all the members of the Committee. The Hansard record containing evidence from witnesses who were called as long ago as 3 years back was considered by the Committee in reaching its conclusions on the Bill. So the suggestion that in some way this was a slap-dash examination on narrow grounds and directed only to the Bill itself just will not stand up. The Committee's conclusions on this Bill were informed by a close examination of the points of view which were put by people representing a wide spectrum of opinion in the community. 
One of the points made in particular by  Senator Greenwood  was: 'Many people feel they have been misled and let down by the course which this Committee has adopted '. Again I ask honourable senators to read the report, in which it is made clear that the church organisations, which presumably are the people to whom the honourable senator refers, dragged their feet in a very odd way in putting in submissions in regard to the original reference, so much so that on 12 June 1973- almost 2 years after we received the general reference- it was necessary for me to write to the heads of the Anglican, Roman Catholic, Presbyterian, Methodist and Congregational Union Churches in Australia asking them to put in their submissions to the Committee. Are these the people who have been misled or who have not had a chance to let us know what their opinions are? We had to go after them to get them to tell us what their opinions were. Finally, they did put in opinions which were considered by all the members of the Committee in bringing down this report. So the suggestion that somehow or other people have been ambushed or do not know what this Bill is about or that those who feel strongly about it have not had a chance to be heard on the matter is just so much hogwash. 
In reply to the first leg of the question, yes, it is a fact that only 2 honourable senators have been members of the Committee from the time of the first reference, namely,  Senator Durack  and myself. The other members of the Committee, Senators Missen and Chaney from the Opposition side and Senators Everett and Button from this side, have been members of the Committee only since 18 May. But I really commend to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that he read this report a little more carefully and that he also read the interim report which was tabled by the Committee in September 1974. He will find that an abundance of evidence, including the original Hansards which were received by the Committee before the 4 last named honourable senators came on to it, was available to those honourable senators. I commend to the honourable senator also what  Senator Missen  said last night. He said that he had carefully read the previous Hansards and all the submissions. To suggest that any member of the Committee was starved of information once again just will not stand up. 
The second leg of the question was: Was the specific reference on the Family Law Bill made to the Committee only on 16 August 1974? Yes, it was. It is clear, if the reference is studied with any sort of care, that the Senate certainly did not have in mind that the Committee would embark on a wide ranging, general inquiry into the history, philosophy and sociological implications of matrimonial law; otherwise surely it would not have set us the herculean task of reporting within one month. So we believe that we were carrying out the clear intention of the Senate in using as background information all the submissions which we had received previously, over a period of 3 years, but directing our inquiry to the clauses of the Bill. 
The third part of the question was: Is it a fact that we sat only 3 times to receive oral submissions? Yes, that is a fact. We chose the people whom we heard with great care. We chose practising lawyers, including a judge of the only family court which exists in Australia, namely, Judge Burnett of the South Australian court. We chose members of the law councils of Australia. We chose practising barristers, judges and people of that ilk so that they could tell us in a workmanlike way what was wrong with the detailed clauses of the Bill. The selection was not based on any notion that we were receiving evidence only from those who favoured the Bill. We selected the people who as practitioners could tell us what was wrong with the Bill and how it could be improved. I believe that the Committee has had its mind amply informed and that it has had the opportunity to consider everything that it needed to consider in order to make up its mind about this Bill. As I said yesterday, I believe that the work of the Committee has been a credit to the Senate. It has been the Senate system of committees at its very best. I have never seen a committee which has applied its mind so well, so conscientiously and with such dedication to its task. I believe that the report it has put down is one of the very best reports to emerge from the Senate committee. 
-Has the Attorney-General had an opportunity to study the amendments to the Family Law Bill proposed by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and, in particular, the amendments which would defer the right to commence proceedings for dissolution of marriage until after a period of 12 months separation has actually occurred? Has he also studied the recommendation for the setting up of a separate family court? Will the Attorney-General indicate whether he is prepared to accept those 2 proposed amendments to the Bill? 
I  present the following petition from 93 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the transcript of the in camera evidence from the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on its inquiry into the law and administration of divorce and matters related to the Family Law Bill 1974. 1 move: 
That the transcript be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement relating to the transcript. 
I find myself in complete agreement with my colleague,  Senator Mulvihill,  when he says that it would be difficult to find a more blatant example of obstruction than what we are meeting in the attitude of the Opposition to this urgent and overdue measure. This Bill is very dear to my heart, if only because during my years in legal practice I was up to my ears in the very problem which it seeks to solve. I know that this is not an academic problem. It is not a problem which lends itself to a leisurely approach such as that suggested by  Senator Greenwood.  He says, in effect: 'Let us talk about it a little further. Let us talk to the employers, the unions and the States and let us see whether we can get a constitutional amendment'. This statement represents a curious leap from the pessimism which he confesses to feeling about the prospects of co-operation with the States - 
I will come to that. I will give the honourable senators the reasons why, with all modesty, I can claim a little more expertise in this matter than even perhaps his distinguished self. At one moment  Senator Greenwood  is pessimistic and says that we cannot expect co-operation from the States. I point out, by the way, that that is a curious observation by one who is constantly accusing us of dragging out feet in the matter of co-operation with the States. Yet, he goes on to express what in the light of recent history we can only regard as the most purblind optimism when he suggests that we can have a constitutional amendment passed. If there is one thing that should have become clear to practising politicians in this country, it is that the most difficult thing to do is to persuade the citizenry to amend this out-of-date document, the Australian Constitution. 
The report on which this Bill is based is, as  Senator Greenwood  stated, the product of the labours of  Mr Justice  Sweeney. I thought that I detected some suggestions from  Senator Greenwood  that perhaps  Mr Justice  Sweeney was not the most competent man to comment on these problems. In my view, if we were to search throughout the country it would be very difficult to find anybody more competent to come up with a solution to this problem than  Mr Justice  Sweeney. Not only was he when in practice commonly regarded, at least in Sydney, as the most able and experienced practitioner in the field of industrial law; but, as  Senator Greenwood  knows, he was the counsel briefed by me in this vexed case of Moore v. Doyle. I happened to act for one of the parties in that case. This matter on which the Government of which  Senator Greenwood  was a member took such a leisurely approach happened so long ago that when I look back on the case now I find it difficult to remember whether I acted for Moore or for Doyle. In fact, I acted for Doyle. 
-Of course we won.  Mr Justice  Sweeney, who was then a leading counsel at the Sydney Bar, acted in the matter and succeeded in persuading the court that the victory should go to our side. 
I must join issue with  Senator Greenwood  when he suggests that it was the Moore v. Doyle case which uncovered this problem. This problem was one which anybody who came anywhere near the industrial jurisdiction knew all about for many years before the Moore v. Doyle case. In fact, one of the judges in the Moore v. Doyle case- the judge, who I happen to know, was instrumental in drawing to the attention of both the State and Federal legislatures the necessity for getting together to find some solution to this problem; I refer to  Mr Justice  Kerr, the present distinguished Governor-General of Australia- was in a position to know more about this problem than even  Mr Justice  Sweeney. This is because  Mr Justice  Kerr, as a barrister, had been briefed in many cases- some of them cases in which I was the instructing solicitor- in which this problem of the dichotomy between State and Federal law in the matter of the status of registered organisations was at the heart of the problem. It was not something that just came to light in the Moore v. Doyle case. It was the conjuncture in that case of the counsel,  Mr Sweeney,  Q.C., as he then was,  Mr Justice  Kerr on the Bench and, if I may say humbly, my presence in the case, which produced the passage in the judgment drawing the attention of the legislatures of this country to the need to do something about this festering sore. 
I think it is worth while at this stage, in case there are some doubts as to what the problem is, to point out that it is adequately and fairly stated in the second reading of the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop),  as Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, where he points out that over the years, because we have this dichotomy in our industrial law, situations arose so that a State branch of a Federal union and a State union often were administered as if they were the same body, with one set of books, one register of members, one membership fee, one set of officers, one election of officers for both bodies and one system of meetings. In some cases the rules of the State union are complied with and the rules of the State branch of the Federal union are ignored and in other cases the position is reversed. The plain fact of the matter as regards the ordinary unionist is that he conceives of himself as belonging to one undifferentiated body which he calls 'my union'. This was the position in the Moore v. Doyle case which involved the Transport Workers Union. To give another example of this problem I mention that my present distinguished Leader in this Senate, the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy),  and I were engaged over a long period on opposite sides in an intra-union- it could only be called that- in which this problem tore the union apart.  Senator Murphy  found himself on one side of the record and I on the other. 
The ultimate denouement in this union brawl highlights the absurdity of this position. After years and years of litigation in which I succeeded in obtaining legal victory in the courts and  Senator Murphy's  clients remained in control of the union because they ducked from the State body to the Federal body, my client finally won an election and went down to take his place in the union office. The astute opponent he had been fighting all these years, who had been very astutely advised by  Senator Murphy,  sat him down in a corner of the office and said: 'Yes, you beat me in the ballot. You are now the secretary but it is an unpaid position because all the funds belong to the State registered union of which I am still the secretary. You go for your life. You have won but see what you will be able to live on. ' After a few weeks of this my client, who had scored a handsome victory in a poll of the members who believed they belonged just to the one union, had to give up and go back to work, and victory temporarily went to the man who had been rejected by his members. 
I knew enough about the problems facing my client not to advise him that what this opponent of his had asserted was incorrect, because there was just no way of unravelling whether the State registered body or the branch of the Federal body owned the assets. So I had this empty victory, my client had this empty victory and the members of the union had an empty victory after showing quite clearly that they wanted my client as the secretary of the union rather than the other man. They were left having to be content with the man whom they had rejected. This is an horrendous situation cutting the ground from beneath the democratic processes in this country, something which people who are fond of railing against trade unions as the source of all the problems of this country should be worried about. I do not know how we can take seriously their constant upbraiding of the unions for their role in our society. Even after the incident I have mentioned of the man winning a ballot and not being able to take over the job this union- the Transport Workers Union which was involved in the Moore v. Doyle case- continued to provide the locus of struggle caused by the dichotomy of Federal and State industrial law and this led to the Moore v. Doyle case. 
It is interesting briefly to trace what the Moore v. Doyle case was about. The union registered under the laws of New South Wales- I will refer to it as the 'trade union'- was attempting to enrol taxi drivers in its ranks. It had never been able to enrol taxi drivers because they were considered to be self-employed persons and were not covered by the New South Wales Arbitration Act until an amendment of that Act was introduced making specific provision for people like taxi drivers and lorry owner-drivers to be enrolled in the State union. This was resisted fiercely by the employers in New South Wales. In fact one case was taken as far as the Privy Council, in which also  Mr Sweeney  appeared. The union managed to win this case right up to the Privy Council. Finally, Counsel advising the employers hit upon the idea that he might be able to establish that the trade union registered in New South Wales did not in fact exist but had had its identity absorbed in the branch of the Federal union and that, therefore, if that State registered body did not exist it could not go out and enrol taxi drivers or lorry owner-drivers because it would have to rely on the Federal industrial laws which excluded such persons because, by definition, they were not employees. 
In the result, counsel for the employers failed to establish that fact. But the case had this curious result: Although the court found after an examination of the history of the 2 separate legal bodies- the State registered union and the branch of the Federal organisation- that the State body had continued to exist, it followed that the branch of the Federal organisation had for all practical purposes become defunct. That is not the end of the story. The notion that Moore v. Doyle is some sort of an academic problem we can take our time about does not stand up, because after the Moore v. Doyle case a faction fight blew up inside the union and the organisationthis is the word used in all Federal legislationthat is, the federally registered organisation, then began to claim the bodies of persons who were covered by Federal awards. It actually came over to New South Wales. The federal secretary of the organisation sent his representative to New South Wales to set up a branch of the organisation to replace the defunct branch which the officials of the State body had believed to be the same as the State body over all these years. The result is that we now have 2 sets of officers contending for these members in New South Wales. 
-And causing, among other things, all the cars in Sydney to go off the road for a few days in 1 972 because the oil tankers drivers who had belonged to the old body refused to accept the idea that they should join this new branch which had been set up by the organisation. As a matter of fact, I had a dramatic illustration of the continuation of this problem this morning. When I found out shortly before lunch that I was to speak on this Bill I rang the Transport Workers Union in Sydney to get a little information. I took the first number in the book and asked for  Mr McBeatty,  who has been referred to by  Senator Mulvihill  and who is the secretary of the New South Wales branch. 1 was told by the man who answered the telephone: 'He does not work here. He is in the State branch.' I had rung the wrong number. The position in New South Wales at present is that there is one body claiming to have been the anointed body with the apostolic succession from the federally registered organisation which has about 1,100 members and the State branch, the one which has not any real locus standi in the Federal organisation, has 750 oil carters, 200 drivers for Qantas, 16 Commonwealth car drivers and 80 truck drivers in the Department of Supply- all covered by Federal awards- all of whom because of their allegiance and loyalty to the old body stayed with the body which cannot legally represent them. 
This is the sort of problem which occurs even in this one union, the Transport Workers Union. As  Senator Button  points out, this is not something about which we can twiddle our thumbs while we wait for a constitutional amendment and say that it is only of interest to the lawyers and does not really matter. As  Senator Button  said, it is something which stopped all the traffic in Sydney for a few days in 1972 because the oil tanker drivers would not accept the proposition that one set of officials was entitled to represent them in court rather than the other set of officials. I have noticed that in the last few days another brawl has blown up involving a large important union- the Shop Assistants Union- in which the Federal Secretary, a  Mr Egan,  has been tipped out of his job, From my experience in this field I can read the signs that there will be a long and bloody battle which will be costly to the union, costly to the community and something to which I would have thought the legislators of this country must immediately advert. 
I do not know the full ramifications of the matter but I know that on a television program the other night  Mr Egan  suggested that this struggle had overtones of the Moore v. Doyle matter. I do not presume to know much of the detail of it but I know  Mr Egan.  I know his acquaintance with these legal problems and I have accepted at face value that it does have those overtones. But even if it does not, we can rest assured that there will be no shortage of union struggles raging around the Moore v. Doyle problem. As I said, it is as old as the existence of unions in this country. As soon as a faction fight flares up and a union or a group of employers sees some advantage in exploiting the dichotomy between State and Federal industrial law, as happened in the Moore v. Doyle case, we will get similar litigation. If the union officials of this country were to look to their actual legal positions a great number of them would find that they just do not occupy those positions in law at all. That is all right so long as the union is flowing smoothly enough, but as soon as a faction fight blows up somebody goes to a lawyer, somebody sees a man of the industrial acumen of  Senator Murphy,  and before we know where we are a free-for-all has started. 
There are enough problems to worry honourable senators opposite arising out of the existence of trade unions and their belief that they should look after their members' rights- an impression that certainly cuts across what honourable senators opposite have been conveying to us in recent years- so I cannot see why they should be selfsatisfied about letting this additional irritant in trade union affairs go uncured. It is suggested by  Senator Greenwood  that we should not be doing this because we cannot do it on our own. There is no mystery about that matter either. This is something which is spelt out in great detail in the judgment of Their Honours in the Moore v. Doyle case.  Mr Justice  Sweeny has said constantly that this is a problem that cannot be solved by the Australian Government alone. But is that a reason why we should do nothing until the High Court does something? Somebody has to start these things going. I do not believe that we can afford the luxury of waiting for constitutional change, which is  Senator Greenwood  's solution to this tangled problem. 
As to the constitutionality of the proposals, I thought  Senator Greenwood  made a very curious remark, for a lawyer. He said that no doubt there will be some uncertainty about the constitutionality of this solution until the High Court passes on the matter. He must know that the High Court does not pass on these matters in a vacuum. It cannot really let us know what it thinks about the matter until it has an Act before it to construe. It does not seem to me to be a bad starting point to push this case up to the High Court which perhaps will let us know whether it stands up. Frankly, I cannot understand how a consistent advocate of co-operative federalism like  Senator Greenwood  can express such pessimism about the possibilities of our securing the co-operation of the States. He is not borne out by the attitudes of the States in my experience. 
As a matter of fact I received a little gentle mauling myself for expressing opinions based on misinformation, I must confess, at the constitutional convention held in Sydney in September last year. I took the opportunity, as a man who is somewhat obsessed by this problem, to express certain views. I found myself in a constitutional gathering with the Attorneys-General and the Ministers for Labour and Industry of the various States present. I thought: 'Here is a good opportunity to prod these chaps into doing something about the Moore v. Doyle problem'. So I stood up and accused the State representatives of more or less dragging their feet. 1 promptly met with this rebuke from  Mr Hewitt,  the Minister for Labour and Industry in New South Wales. He said: 
If I recount, for the benefit of the honourable senator - 
He was referring to me-  a few happenings 1 think he will be compelled to agree with me. In April last - 
That is in April 1973-  the Ministers for Labour met in Melbourne and the  Hon.  Clyde Cameron agreed on behalf of the Commonwealth to submit to the federal Parliament legislation with a view to rectifying, as well as one can by legislation, the situation that arose from the Moore v. Doyle case. This proposal was based on a recommendation from New South Wales and I might state that we had some of the best industrial legal advice available to back our proposition. The Ministers met again in Melbourne last Friday and when the State Ministers asked the  Hon.  Clyde Cameron why the Commonwealth had not acted as had been agreed - 
That is a curious reversal in that here we have the States reproaching the Australian Government with dragging its feet-  he said that the pressure on the Parliamentary Draftsman to get legislation through meant that his legislation in this area had been delayed and would not come on until 1974. In the meantime the States have delayed their back-to-back legislation until the Commonwealth legislation, which was agreed to at that conference, has been enacted. I trust that  Senator McClelland  will take the trouble to ascertain the facts from his colleague, the Minister for Labour in Canberra, so that he may verify that what I say is indeed the case. 
This is a rebuke which I am glad to accept but which, I suggest, completely refutes the proposition that is put up by  Senator Greenwood,  that we should wait, that we should delay until we are more sure that the unions, the State governments and presumably the employers will back us up in what we are undertaking. 
Just before I rose to speak I had placed in my hand a document which comes from  Mr Polites  who, I think it will be agreed on all sides, is the authoritative spokesman on industrial matters for the employers of this country. The document reads: 
The provisions of a Bill to amend the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act designed to implement the report of the Sweeny inquiry into the problems illustrated by the decision in Moore v. Doyle appear to be generally satisfactory. 
Then  Mr Polites  goes through the more important provisions of the Bill in detail and indicates his assent on behalf of the employers of this country to what is proposed in the Bill. 
Of course, it is worthwhile to recapitulate briefly the history of what has transpired, between  Mr Clyde  Cameron and his Department and his counterparts in the States, to rebut the proposition that there had not been sufficient time or that the unions or the States have not been able to consider the matter and, therefore, this should be deferred in some way. It is worth recalling that the Moore v. Doyle case is now5½ years old. As I recall it, the judgment was given some time early in 1969. Proceeding in leisurely fashion, the previous Government had a series of conferences. There is no doubt that it was seized of the fact that there was a problem here, but it proceeded at a very leisurely pace. As in so many areas of government, it was necessary for a Labor Government to be elected to power in this country before any serious attempt was made to grapple with this problem. I ask honourable senators not to forget that the Sweeny report, if I may call it that, on which this Bill is based was tabled here and in the other place in August this year. There has been plenty of opportunity for honourable senators opposite to read it and to digest it. Of course, the Bill is based primarily on the recommendations in that report. Copies of the report were distributed to all the States and to major unions and employer bodies. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  formally sent copies to each State Premier in July. The Minister sent copies to each of the State Ministers concerned in July. Copies also were sent to the relevant departmental heads. In all over 1,000 copies have been distributed to interested parties since publication in July. 
So, the provisions of this Bill, incorporating the amendments contained in the report, are not new. Moreover, at a conference of Ministers for Labour in Brisbane on 30 August this year- I think I heard something fall from  Senator Greenwood  which suggested that such conferences had ceased in recent months- draft copies of the Bill were distributed to the State Ministers. The recommendations in the report were discussed there. 
I am informed by the Minister that they indicated their support for the proposition that a Bill should be introduced- apart from the representative of Queensland who, not surprisingly and very consistently, dissented from the general unanimity of the gathering on the ground that he could not understand the propositions. 
-Not surprisingly at all. Otherwise, these Ministers indicated general agreement with what is being done here. The working party established in 1970 by the National Labour Advisory Council examined the matter in detail over a period of nearly 3 years, as  Senator Greenwood  knows. 
Being a Government which is prepared to grapple with problems and to attempt to find a solution, we believe that it is about time somebody grasped the nettle and did something to solve this problem, rather than wait until the tanker drivers of Sydney or Melbourne, or some other batch of workers, in frustration because of a brawl between officials of their Federal body and of a State registered union do something which will inconvenience millions of people. We think that, rather than wait for that or for some mythical consensus between the major parties which will promote the possibility of a constitutional reform going through, it is about time we did something about the problem. That is the basis of this Bill. That is why it is introduced into this Parliament. In the light of what has been said here today, I suggest that that is a fairly good indication that we are a Government which believes in attempting to solve problems rather than just using problems as some sort of a weapon with which to beat our opponents over the head. For those reasons I earnestly commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Having been a senator for a little bit longer than  Senator Button  I realise that when the notice paper reaches a certain stage somebody suggests that we have a little fun and indulge ourselves in the fantasy that one of these days we will have a new parliament house. So I was rather touched when  Senator Button  came to me this afternoon and actually lobbied me. He approached me rather tentatively as though he thought that he might be treading on some cherished illusions. I was rather touched when he expressed some surprise when I told him that as far as the choice of sites was concerned I have always been 'Camp' and opposed to presumptuous erections. I said to him- I repeat to the Senate- that I think all members of Parliament should beware of the sins of hubris, which is a Greek word meaning the pride which cometh before a fall. Not every politician falls as quickly as every other politician. Some have more luck than others. One politician whose name is writ large in the history of our country has been mentioned here tonight-  Sir Robert 
Menzies. I suppose he was a classic example of a politician who got away with hubris. I understand that he was a firm advocate of a parliament house down by the lake. It is said that his advocacy of that site was based on the desire that he should arrive at Parliament House by barge. 
I thank  Senator Withers  for that illustration of a practical example of co-operative federalism. I wonder whom he would nominate for the role of cox. Having mentioned the subject of hubris, I think that the same spirit is disclosed in those who want us to have a temple of democracy in the clouds somewhere on Capital Hill where the masses will gaze up to their masters, bow down to them, worship them and perpetuate the old notion of British democracy at its height, of God bless the Queen and all her relations and keep us all in our proper stations. 
-That is a very good suggestion by  Senator McAuliffe.  I have a feeling that this notion of a building in the clouds has been reinforced by certain ecclesiastical attitudes that could be expressed by the phrase: 'Nearer my God to Thee'. But as  Senator Button  pointed out the Senate has changed in composition since we had a lobby for the proposition that the closer we were to God physically the better our deliberations and the wiser our conclusions. 
I suggest that in this day and age we must beware of what I could call the Cassius Clay syndrome. The constant suggestion that one is the greatest is something that politicians should try to avoid. Quite seriously, I think that a certain amount of humility is becoming in politicians. It may be said that it comes more naturally to me than it does to our Leader because I suppose I could be said to have more to be humble about. 
-As a matter of fact, it has been suggested that Kirribilli House is very nicely placed in relation to the Opera House because it enables some people who are constant visitors to the Opera House when they are in Sydney to avoid the rigours of public transport and walk across the water. I seriously suggest to everybody here that we should cultivate certain humility. We should not attempt to indulge in megalomaniacal tendencies that are all too easily developed by the adulation that we get from our supporters. One of the reinforcing elements for this megalomania is to get up there in the clouds. I agree wholeheartedly with the proposition advanced by my wise friend,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, when he makes the suggestion to politicians that they should try to keep their feet on the ground and not to get their heads in the clouds. For that reason I succumb to the lobbying that I have had from my friend  Senator Button  and eagerly espouse Camp Hill. 
I believe that this Bill gives the Twenty-ninth Parliament an opportunity to go down in history as the parliament which introduced into this country a matrimonial law as enlightened as any in the world. I say 'the Parliament' advisedly, because although this Bill has been introduced and re-introduced by a very dogged Attorney-General of a Labor government it will not become law unless it commands the support of some honourable senators on the other side of the chamber. A free vote is a rare phenomenon in this place. I suggest that it behoves us when we get the rare opportunity of freedom of decision to exercise it carefully and wisely. I propose to examine the Bill not in quite as much detail as  Senator Missen  has given to it in his very able and painstaking speech. I wish to concentrate on a few of the highlights of the specific alterations of the general philosophies of divorce law, maintenance and ancillary matters which are introduced by this Bill. 
Easily the most important aspect of the Bill is the suggestion for the replacement of the grounds of fault in the present law- that is such grounds as adultery, cruelty and habitual drunkenness- with one ground of irretrievable breakdown. As  Senator Missen  has already pointed out, the notion of fault as the only ground for the dissolution of marriage has already been quite severely breached in the present Act, in what I might refer to as  Sir Garfield  Barwick 's divorce law. It introduced into this country the notion that a divorce could be obtained without any fault, merely on the ground that the parties had lived apart for S years. So that the principle that a fault is necessary before a marriage can be dissolved is a principle which has already disappeared, but the notion seems to have got around, especially during the currency of the present public debate on this Bill, that what we are suggesting stems only from the minds of permissive trendies who are attempting to undermine the institution of marriage. 
I point out that although lawyers practising in matrimonial law and people whose marriages have broken down had for years discussed the notion that there should be a divorce law in which the only ground for dissolution was one of irretrievable breakdown, the real breakthrough came from what was known as the Archbishop of Canterbury's Group. It was a group of churchmen which got together and published in 1966 a pamphlet of their Endings called 'Putting Asunder' in which it recommended that this should be the sole ground. I shall quote from what has become a classic passage in the findings of this group. In giving its considered opinion about irretrievable breakdown as the sole grounds for dissolution of marriage, the Archbishop of Canterbury's Group said:   we were persuaded that a divorce law founded on the doctrine of breakdown would not only accord better with social realities than the present law does, but would have the merit of showing up divorce for what in essence it is- not a reward for marital virtue on the one side and a penalty for marital delinquency on the other; not a victory for one spouse and a reverse for the other; but a defeat for both, a failure of the marital  'two-in-oneship'  in which both its members, however unequal their responsibility, are inevitably involved together.  J 
That, I suggest, is not only a realistic but also a compassionate attitude towards what must always be a human tragedy. It takes the approach that such tragedies being inevitable, the role of the law, the role of the Government, is to make the dissolution of that dead marriage as dignified and as devoid of humiliation as it is possible for human institutions to do. After this archbishop's group published its findings, what began as a trickle of opinion in favour of this sort of reform of matrimonial law became a flood, and country after country adopted, or is about to adopt, this ground either as the main ground or the sole ground. Among the legislatures which have adopted this ground either as a sole ground or the main ground in the United States of America are the States of California, Florida, Colorado, Iowa, Nebraska, Texas, New York, Alaska and Oklahoma. Canada has adopted this ground of irretrievable breakdown to be proved by 12 months separation as an additional ground to the other grounds. In Sweden, which has always been an avant-grade country in social matters, divorce can be had as of right on a unilateral request of either party. In Britain the principle of irretrievable breakdown has been adopted, although I would argue that the British system has certain defects in that it allows the notion or fault to survive alongside irretrievable breakdown by virtue of the fact that irretrievable breakdown can be proved by establishing several matters such as adultery- the old fault grounds. 
There are many variations in the United States, but significantly there is a body known as the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, approved by the council of the American Bar Association, which on 9 November 1972 proposed that the dissolution of marriage should be granted only on the one ground of irretrievable breakdown. The notion that this ground as the sole ground for divorce will promote easy divorces, or quickie divorces as they are sometimes called, is not something which will hold up. I think this is a matter which was well disposed of by  Senator Missen  when he pointed out that under the present law there is an opportunity for immediate divorce on one of the fault grounds and that in fact something like 43 per cent of divorces are granted on such immediate grounds, whereas under the law as it will be amended by this Bill, if passed, there will be no possibility of filing for divorce until a period of 12 months of separation has gone by. I might refer to one of the authorities on this particular question,  Mr Max  Rheinstein- I think this is a particularly telling point- who says: 
The second point which strikes the curious observer is that in every country where divorce on any ground is recognised, spouses who are united in the desire to put an end to their marriage succeed, sooner or later, in getting their divorce. The vast majority of divorce actions are undefended- the percentage varies slightly from country to country, but in England, Germany, France, Canada, the United States and, indeed, most western countries, it is in excess of 90 per cent. 
I do not know the exact figures for Australia but I would be very surprised if they are less than those mentioned here. The authority goes on to say: 
And where there is no contest, there is either agreement on the termination of the bond or at least acquiescence, i.e., consent. Whether in these cases the termination of the marriage is truly justified under the rules of the books, or whether grounds are fabricated or bars to divorce are concealed, the court does not know. 
As the Archbishop's group stated, every uncontested divorce is in fact a divorce by consent. So before we get carried away with the notion that this Bill, if passed, is going to open the flood gates to easy divorce or that something heinous and horrendous like divorce by consent will be introduced into our society for the first time, I suggest that those honourable senators taking part in this debate recall that in most civilised countries something like 90 per cent of divorces under the present law are in fact divorces by consent. Another point that is worth bearing in mind is that when you do have a fault system in the law the proof of fault is nearly always defective, often collusive and frequently manufactured. 
-This is so as  Senator Poyser  reminds me. Those who have been interested in this subject for some years will undoubtedly have read a book which was published many years ago by A. P. Herbert called 'Holy Deadlock'. It is a very amusing book which introduced us for the first time, in English fiction at least, to the occupation of the professional co-respondent- the person, be it male or female, who was available for a fee to establish, complete with private detectives, photographs and so on, instant proof of the commission of adultery. This has been, as all lawyers know, a daily feature of divorce law in our country and in every other country. As has also been pointed out, in uncontested actions the judge, having neither the tools nor the inclination to probe the story the spouses tell him, has usually no choice but to grant a divorce on flimsy evidence or on evidence which he suspects may be collusive. Even where evidence by corroborating witnesses is required he can never be quite sure whether the matrimonial offence on which the petitioner relies was in truth committed. A professor of law at Bochum University, Germany, discussed the problems of the divorce law in Germany which I might mention is a very pressing matter at the moment. A new divorce code has been discussed for some months in the West German Republic, and all of these aspects have been considered by German lawyers, the German Parliament and the public generally. Professor Giesen points out: 
The fact that 80 to 90 per cent of divorce actions that are formally brought on the ground of adultery or some other matrimonial offence are actually conducted by means of play-acting by both parties suffices to show both the urgent need felt for means of circumventing the existing law and the deep gap between law and reality. 
I would like to refer to one final quotation on this matter which is from another German publication. I think it sums up the whole matter of public opinion marching ahead of the law. The quotation reads: 
Life with its necessities is punishing an obsolete principle with a thousand lies. 
Of course, it takes only a moment's reflection to realise that there is little to be gained by keeping a so-called guilty spouse in a marriage merely by making it difficult for him or her to be divorced. There is no way known to the law to make a reluctant spouse return to the marriage bed nor of restraining him from joining his paramour, if that is his wish. What we are doing in effect, by making divorce difficult, if you care to look at it in that way, is inviting immorality. It has been estimated, for example, that in England some 40 per cent of illegitimate children are born to stable illicit unions- that is the sort of union formed by people who for some reason or other, say a dog in the manger attitude on the part of the spouse who will not divorce, are not able to contract a second marriage. 
If the policy of a matrimonial law should be to protect the institution of marriage, surely one of the strongest arguments against making it difficult for marriages which have foundered to be sundered is that we are inviting people who cannot be freed of a union with which they no longer wish to be encumbered with to free themselves and to undertake a second union. As I think  Senator Missen  pointed out very cogently, even though it is a fact that more and more people are being divorced it certainly cannot be said that marriage is becoming unpopular. More people are marrying today, perhaps for the second or even third time. But the fact of the matter is that even though a great number of people are being divorced a greater number of people are being married than ever before. 
It has been suggested that to allow one party, in effect, to bring a marriage to an end- it is freely conceded that that is the effect of this legislation- is in some way a retrograde step because there should be a consent of both parties. This is the notion of the contract which has been voiced in the course of this discussion. I think that this also is a proposition which will not stand a real examination. It is a matter which was adverted to by the Archbishop's group in the pamphlet 'Putting Asunder' to which I have referred. This matter was dealt with in these words: 
The fatal defect of the concensual principle is not that it requires both parties to agree in wanting divorce (that spouse do agree on this not infrequently is a fact that a realistic law needs to be taken into account) . . . 
That is the point which I have just been talking about. It states further:  but that it subjects marriage absolutely to the joint will of the parties, so making it in essence a private contract. Since it gives the court, as representing the community, no effectual part in divorce, it virtually repudiates the community's interests in the stability of marriage. 
In other words, there is no role for the States or for the courts to intervene to bring a marriage to an end which, for all practical purposes, is dead and which surely, if only in the interests of the children, should be decently buried. I will not refer at length to the point which was made, I think, adequately by  Senator Missen  that the grounds on which divorces are granted in Australia at the present time are very largely immediate grounds. On the figures for 1973, at least 43 per cent of divorces were obtained on grounds which enabled people to obtain a divorce more quickly than they would under this Bill. 
I should like to turn briefly to the question of the period of separation provided by sub-clause (2) of clause 26 of the Bill which states: 
Subject to sub-section (3), in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the commencement of the hearing of the application. 
As  Senator Missen  pointed out, our Committee took the view that this was a clause which could stand some improvement. We have recommended, in accordance with the proposal from the Anglican Diocese of Melbourne which was read to the Senate by  Senator Missen,  that the grounds should be altered so that proceedings cannot be commenced until after a period of 12 months separation has elapsed. As will be clear from the words that I have read from clause 26 of the Bill, if it were not amended it would be possible for parties to a marriage who believe that the marriage had foundered to commence proceedings almost immediately after they were married. Of course, they would not be entitled to a dissolution of marriage until after 12 months separation had elapsed. To that extent the idea of married couples separating after a trifling tiff would not get any momentum even from the Bill as it is because people who did separate after some trifling disagreement and filed an application for a dissolution would have to wait 12 months and, of course, would have every opportunity for reconciliation within that period. 
The Committee believed and recommendedI understand that the Attorney-General will accept this recommendation- that subclause (2) of clause 26 of the Bill should be amended so as to provide that the proceedings cannot be commenced until a period of 12 months' separation had elapsed. I take it that this will raise one of the vexed matters of discussion in this chamber. That is: Is 12 months a sufficient period to determine that a marriage has in fact irretrievably broken down? As can be imagined, the various bodies such as the Archbishop's group which have considered this question gave a lot of thought to this matter. Some, of course, have suggested that this period was really too long. Some people have suggested, especially in the case of an application for dissolution being unopposed, that a period of 6 months would be enough. Others have suggested, as indeed a couple of the members of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has suggested, that 12 months is too short and that we should opt for 2 years. 
I would like to quote something which supports the proposition that 12 months separation is really, on balance, the ideal period to establish that a marriage has in fact broken down. It is generally accepted by the authorities that after a year of separation- I think  Senator Missen  said that his own experience as a practitioner confirmed this- all prospects of reconciliation have in the vast majority of cases evaporated. It is no accident that countries which have adopted separation for a specific period as the test of whether a marriage has irretrievably broken down have in no cases by subsequent amendment lengthened the period but several, by subsequent amendment, have substantially shortened the period. As was put by the Scottish Law Commission: 
The time required must be sufficiently long to give the spouse a reasonable chance to be reconciled, but it must not be longer. If it is, the separation ground has to be supplemented with a 'short-road' divorce on the ground of matrimonial  offence, and the fault principle, with all its defects, has to be perpetuated. 
Whilst I respect the opinion of those who feel some misgivings about the period, I suggest that if we are to eliminate fault as a ground for divorce and are to opt for one ground only- that is, irretrievable breakdown- we are logically committed to a period of 12 months. I suggest that extending the period would not really work a great improvement in the present law. Of course, there are many intolerable situations in marriage which make it undesirable that a shattered marriage should survive for any longer than is socially desirable. If we are to abolish the instant grounds- the abolition of fault does involve the abolition of the instant grounds- we cannot make the period of separation so long that people wishing to dissolve their marriage are no better off- indeed, are slightly worse off than they would be under the existing law. For that reason, I am convinced, as was the majority of our Committee, that the ideal period required to establish that a marriage has broken down irretrievably is 12 months. 
As  Senator Missen  has pointed out, the reconciliation provisions in the Bill give some reality to the notion of reconciliation. Anybody who has practised in this field will be able to tell you that reconciliation under the existing Act is more or less a hollow farce. It is one of the forms through which parties to a marriage wishing to dissolve their marriage have to go. They have to sign certain forms. They have to go through the act of pretending that they made a serious effort to be reconciled when, in fact, they had come to the lawyers and started their proceedings for divorce long after any hope of reconciliation had vanished. I will not bother to go into the details of the reconciliation provisions because I believe that they have been canvassed sufficiently by  Senator Missen.  But I would like to draw attention to the fact that in clause 26 of the Bill- that is the clause which establishes the ground of irretrievable breakdown based on 12 months separation- sub-clause (3) states: 
A degree of dissolution of marriage shall not be made if the court is satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. 
In other words, the court- in a moment I will come to the notion of a new court which the Committee has adopted- would have to persuade itself, with all the aids that we propose that such a court would have in the way of welfare officers, counsellors and marriage guidance people, that, in fact, there was no prospect of cohabitation being resumed. I commend to the Senate the reconciliation provisions which are spelt out in clauses 14 and 15 of the Bill. I commend these clauses as providing a realistic and sincere effort to make available to parties to a marriage which is in danger intelligent, dedicated and well-trained counsellors and welfare officers to help the marriage to survive if, in fact, there is any chance that it will survive. 
The other matter which, in my view, will make this divorce law an enlightened, humane and dignified proceeding is found in the suggestion that has come from our Committee for the institution of a Family Court. The original Bill brought before the Senate by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  contained the suggestion that the jurisdiction in matrimonial matters should be exercised by a section of a proposed Superior Court. I am pleased that the Attorney-General has been persuaded that the suggestion that has come from the Committee for the institution of an entirely separate Family Court of Australia is a good one. The notion of a Family Court is well established in some parts of the world. It has taken root particularly in Japan and California and, as  Senator Missen  pointed out, in South Australia. We had the benefit of some evidence from a judge of the South Australian Family Court. As  Senator Missen  pointed out, the Court has limited jurisdiction. It does not have the right to grant principal relief, but we believe that it is a trail blazing institution that points the way to what we should have here. 
One of the most humiliating and distressing aspects of marital upset in this country is that much of the jurisdiction in what are known to lawyers as ancillary matters- maintenance, custody applications and the like- is exercised by magistrates who are exercising a generalised jurisdiction in criminal matters. So the wife, who is already in the distressed condition which normally accompanies the breakdown of marriage, has to take her place in the queue with prostitutes, pickpockets and the general criminal element of society, waiting her turn in the rather sleezy atmosphere of the magistrates courts, especially in the big cities. We say that that is something to which parties to a breakdown of marriage should not be submitted. We suggest that a court should be set up which deals with nothing but family matters. I commend to honourable senators the passage on page 1 7 of the Committee's report which points out that what we have in mind is: 
The assimilation of all family matters into one court, with active pre-divorce and post-divorce counselling not merely to assist reconciliation but also to provide for the reduction of bitterness and distress and in alleviating on-going postdivorce problems. 
Of course, the human problems do not cease with the mere dissolution of the marriage. Custody problems and access problems are a continuing feature of the lives of persons whose marriage has gone on the rocks. Our Committee formed the view that the civilised way to handle all these matters is to have them concentrated in one court- a specialist court- with judges selected not only for their knowledge of the law but also for their general humanitarian approach to these matters. Our view was that gradually the role of magistrates in matrimonial matters should be phased out. 
We faced quite realistically the fact that that is not something that it would be possible to do over-night, primarily because of the geographical complications of a country like Australia. After all, a woman living in Bourke may have to make an immediate application- a custody application or a maintenance application. In the present circumstances it is unreasonable that she should have to wait until a circuit Family Court visited Bourke or some neighbouring large town, or that she should have to go to Sydney or even to Dubbo or some place like that. This is what we have in mind as a development of this Family Court. We see it as a 2-tier Court with judges of Supreme Court status handling large mattersmatters of principal relief- and judges of perhaps district court or county court status handling the ancillary matters which presently are handled by magistrates. We imagine this Court being a court which goes to the people, which travels around the country and, indeed, which travels to places like Bourke and not at long intervals, so that the atmosphere of the family court which we regard as so important will be available not only to dwellers in the big metropolitan centres but also to people in far-flung, small towns and isolated localities throughout the country. As I say, this will take some time to build up. But we believe that a start should be made and made as soon as possible. 
We believe in a combination of this humanitarian ground of irretrievable breakdown provable by 12 months separation and a Family Court- an exclusive, specialist Family Courtstaffed by carefully selected judges and assisted by experts such as welfare officers, counsellors, psychologists, accountants and other people such as accountants who might advise those whose marriage is in difficulty primarily because they cannot handle their finances on how to get their affairs in order. In other words it would be, as the Committee says in its report, a genuine helping court. We believe that this, allied to the humanitarian ground we suggest, would for the first time in this country produce a genuinely civilised code of matrimonial affairs. 
-There are some constitutional difficulties there. The power to set up this court and the power in respect of matrimonial matters generally rests on 2 placita in section 5 1 of the Constitution. 
-Yes, which we might as well look at The Parliament of Australia is given power to make laws under placitum 21 in respect of marriage and under placitum 22 in respect of divorce and matrimonial causes and, in relation thereto, parental rights and the custody and guardianship of infants. It is doubtful whether these 2 placita confer the power on the Australian Parliament to make laws with respect to affiliationparenthood claims, or matters of delinquency. But logically they belong in the sort of court I am talking about. The Committee hopes, especially if this court gets off the ground and shows itself to be a social advance and a success that it would be possible to persuade the States to confer power on the Australian Government to make laws in respect of those matters also. But in reply to  Senator Baume  's question, there must be grave doubt at this time whether this sort of thing could be taken within the purview of the family court. 
I turn briefly to a matter that has also been covered by  Senator Missen  at considerable length, the matter of maintenance. The Committee believes that the provisions in this Bill with respect to maintenance represent a considerable advance on the thinking and philosophy which have informed such provisions in the past. In an era when women are asserting more and more successfully and more justifiably their equality before the law and in all respects with men, I suggest it is not appropriate that marriage should be regarded as constituting a right to permanent support no matter what the circumstances and no matter whether or not a woman is capable of taking her place in the work force. The provisions for maintenance, commencing with clause 50 of the Bill, establish a new code based primarily on the matter of need. Clause 5 1 says: 
A party to a marriage is liable to maintain the other party, to the extent that the first-mentioned party is reasonably able to do so, if, and only if, that other party is unable to support herself or himself adequately, whether by reason of having the care or control of a child of the marriage who has not attained the age of 18 years, or by reason of age or physical or mental incapacity for gainful employment or for any other adequate reason. 
Later clauses spell out the detail of the criteria which should be taken into account by the court first of all in deciding whether maintenance should be paid and then in fixing the amount. In examining these clauses, as  Senator Missen  pointed out, the Committee came to the conclusion that the Bill had not paid quite enough regard to the situation of a woman, say, in middle life who may never have entered the work force or may have been in the work force so long ago that she would find it inordinantly difficult, if not impossible, to enter or re-enter the work force or be trained for some sort of work but who may have made a career of being a housewife and a mother. This is not a dishonourable calling, not matter how unfashionable it may be with the more militantly liberationist of modern woman- and I do not say that as any reflection on them but neither do I consider it to be any reflection on a woman to have chosen to live her life that way. The Committee has proposed amendments which it believes will rectify what it regards as shortcomings in the Bill on this matter and allow greater judicial discretion to take account of all the circumstances, such as the one I have mentioned. 
To give an example, take the case of a couple who married comparatively young and the male partner undertook, say, a medical course and, in order to make it possible for him to study fulltime, his wife went out to work and, in effect, kept him for a few years. Then the marriage went on the rocks. Clause 54 (2) (f) states in respect of the matters the court shall take into account in fixing the amount of maintenance: 
Where the parties have separated or the marriage has been dissolved, the standard of living of the parties before the breakdown of the marriage . . . 
The Committee suggested an alteration to that which would give the judge deciding this sort of matter the right to take other things into account, including the circumstances I have just mentioned. It might be argued that a woman who has made such sacrifices as I have just suggested in the interests of the marriage would be entitled to a level of maintenance that would take into account not merely the standard of living which the couple enjoyed at the time the marriage broke down but also the fact that the efforts of such a woman have made it possible for such a man to enjoy a standard of life considerably higher than they had during the marriage. The Committee considered that that should be taken into account. This is the sort of improvement which I believe the Committee has injected into this Bill. 
On this question which is embedded in the modern debate on the relationships between men and women, on authority- Professor L. Neville Brown- had this to say on the general philosophical question of maintenance:   . . the private law of maintenance will tend to wither away and its place be assumed by social security legislation. In other words, by the year 2000 the law will have abandoned as socially undesirable, frequently ineffectual and wholly uneconomic the hounding of spouses through the courts for non-support of their families. Non-support by spouses or parent will be ranged alongside those other vicissitudes of life- unemployment, sickness, industrial injury, child birth, death itself- for which social insurance should make provision. 
Of course, the framers of this Bill and, also the Committee accept the fact that at the present stage of human development and at the present stage of our social institutions there can be no question of doing away with maintenence. In his report to the Swedish Government one of its Ministers, in talking about the overhaul of legislation on family matters in 1969, put it in this way: 
Within the growing up generation it is natural for girls to seek equally good vocational education as boys, and the girls who are now leaving school are probably in general prepared to have gainful employment during the major part of their adult lives. However, many families in the now grownup generations have adapted themselves to the system where the wife exclusively devotes her labour to her household. In certain parts of the country opportunities for work are too few and industry too one-sided to enable employment to be provided for all the women who want to undertake gainful employment. A family's options are also frequently limited by a lack of child day-care centres and nursery schools. 
In other words, whilst I think we can look forward to a social consciousness developing which will eliminate the notion of maintenance altogether, at the present stage of the development of our institutions, having regard to the fact that there is still a large generation of women who have undertaken as their sole life work the upkeep of a home and the nurture of their children, account has to be taken of these people with these attitudes and in this situation in life. Our Committee was very conscious of the situation of such women. The members believe that we have strengthered the Bill by making more adequate provision for people in that situation without derogating from the general philosophical basis of maintenance which is contained in clause 5 1 of this Bill. 

 Senator Missen has already referred to the question of the privacy of proceedings connected with matrimonial breakdown. I do not think I need labour this point because surely there would be a consensus among all honourable senators that proceedings between husband and wife in a dissolution of marriage or proceedings involving children in matters of maintenance and custody are really their concern alone. There should not be from such proceedings an opportunity for newspapers or anybody else to sell their wares. There has been a quite distressing example of that sort of thing in recent months when a few celebrities have had themselves paraded through the newspapers in matters which obviously were of no concern to anybody but themselves and to the authority- that is, the court- which has to arbitrate in these matters and see that justice is done. So we have suggested a strengthening of the provisions designed to ensure privacy in a way which will become clear in the Committee stage of the debate. 
Another matter was adverted to by  Senator Missen  in what was so comprehensive a speech that it is hard for me to find anything else to say about the matter. He referred to the fact that in matrimonial matters there has been traditionally a great deal of class distinction. It is no secret that for a great part of human history dissolution of marriage has really been something that could be afforded only by the well-off. There is no doubt that a great number of poorer people have put up with intolerable marriages primarily because they could not afford either to go to court to have them dissolved or to have 2 separate establishments. Willy nilly, they were joined together in misery. This is one of the reasons why we have suggested- it is implicit in the whole of the approach of the Attorney-General in this as in other spheres- that there should be a system of legal aid and that no person need be prevented from obtaining matrimonial relief merely because he or she has not the means to hire a lawyer. 
On this matter I would like to grasp a nettle about which many lawyers feel somewhat chary. That is the attitude, which has been spread, largely by an organisation calling itself the Divorce Law Reform Association, that somehow or other the lawyer can be totally eliminated from proceedings involving the breakdown of marriage. I submit that if we simplify the grounds in the way that this Bill proposes- that is, if it is merely a matter of establishing that the parties have separated for 12 months for them to be entitled to a decree for dissolution- obviously the role of a lawyer in that process reaches vanishing point in most cases. There will not be a contest in more than an infinitesimal number of cases about that issue. The long, hard fought out contests about whether in fact a divorce should occur will largely disappear. But I would suggest with respect to these zealots of the Divorce Law Reform Association, who have become well known for their suggestion of do-it-yourself kits, that they are going to lead people into more trouble than they are going to save them if they suggest that in all cases there is no need for a lawyer, 
The healthier a society is, I suppose one would agree, the less need there is for lawyers in all sorts of fields. But let us face the fact that we still live in an imperfect society and there is no arena of human conflict or endeavour in which lawyers are, unfortunately, less dispensable than in matters of thrashing out who is entitled to property, what maintenance should be paid or vexed contested matters of custody. The solution at this stage of human development, I suggest with respect to the Divorce Law Reform Association, is not the total elimination of lawyers and not the attempt to do it all yourself with divorce kits but for the State to shoulder its responsibility in this as in other fields and to provide a reasonable level of legal aid to enable people who find themselves in these distressing circumstances to be adequately and properly represented. I say that not by any means in support of the notion that divorce and its attendant problems should provide a field day for the lawyers but as a matter of reality, knowing how bitter and how complex contests between persons in this situation can become. 
Finally I would like to say just this, that the illusion that tightening up divorce laws is the best way to counter the disintegration of the family is something that we have to face squarely. We have to face the fact that it is an illusion. For example, in countries where there is no divorce law at all- a spectacular example, of course, is Italy until recently- can it be suggested that there are no broken marriages, no immorality and no illegitimacy? Anybody who is any sort of student of the Italian scene will tell you that quite the contrary is the case. When we look to the causes of the disintegration of marriage I think we have to say quite honestly that none of those causes has anything to do with the divorce law of a country. The real causes of the disintegration of marriage, I suggest, are to be found in such things as increasing urbanisation, increasing industrialisation, greater social mobility, the emancipation of women, the weakening of religious sanctions and, I suppose we could say, the increased all-round prosperity. It is just a fact that we have to face, that more people today are able to get divorced and to go on having a resonable standard of life than was the case in the past. In a period of 2 -income families, the woman who just has to grit her teeth and bear an intolerable marriage is, I am glad to say, disappearing. There are still plenty of them around, but the social tendency is for bad marriages no longer to be prisons from which the spouses cannot escape. 
We are looking in the wrong direction if we are suggesting that by making divorce more humane, simple and less expensive we are fostering the breakdown of marriage. It is part of the human condition and part of the developments which I have just listed that marriage is less stable today than it was in the past, just as many institutions are less stable. But, as has been pointed out by  Senator Missen,  this does not mean that marriage is disappearing. It does not mean that people no longer want to marry. On the contrary, all the evidence seems to point to the fact that marriage is here for a long while yet. It behoves us, then, to know that the real causes of the disintegration of marriage are not to be found in permissive or easier divorce laws. On this point I conclude by quoting Professor Kahn.Freund. I think this is a point which honourable members should contemplate. It is an original and very thought-provoking contribution to this debate. The professor stated: 
Is not the rising divorce rate very largely a reflection of increasing social equality; what was yesterday the habit of the privileged few is today the right of the many? How far, again, does the growing number of divorces indicate a more widespread inclination to prefer marriage to factual union? Is it not true that not so long ago masses of people never bothered to get married at all, and that consequently the dissolution of their unions did not appear in the divorce statistics? And does it perhaps indicate an enhanced rather than a diminished respect for marriage as an institution if people insist on having a marriage dissolved and on getting married again rather than having a mistress or a lover? 
I present the following petition from 30 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of Irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-As the petition is in identical terms to one which has already been read to the Senate, I do not ask that it be read. 
I present the following petitions from 20 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 26 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Divorce is a social and medical problem not a legal issue and should be relieved accordingly; 
Irretrievable breakdown must be the only ground with a maximum of twelve months separation; 
When making property settlements the court must take into account the direct and indirect financial and other contributions made to the acquisition, conservation or improvement of the property by the parties in the capacity of homemaker, parent or otherwise; 
There must be urgent reform and the Family Law Bill must be presented to Parliament forthwith and accepted without further delay. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the inclusion in sub-section 54(2) of the Family Law Bill of the clause recommended in paragraph 67(f) (2) of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, which will allow 'any fact or circumstance ' to be taken into account when considering maintenance, completely alters the whole concept of specific guidelines, as now set out in section 54, and we oppose it. 
That the removal of the word 'exceptional' in subsection 92(2) of the new Family Law Bill, will result in a high level of bitter and costly litigation in ancillary matters, which the present proposed sharing of costs, with legal aid available, would otherwise minimise. 
That judicial discretion which allows fault in property settlement and the usual false accusations necessitating defence in custody and access matters, as well as (a) and (b) above, will result in very much the same litigation in ancillary matters as under the present iniquitous Matrimonial Causes Act. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 30 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Before assuming the mantle of upholder of the sovereign rights of the Senate and its committees  Senator Greenwood  might have been wiser to have checked his own credentials for this role. I would like to point out to him that the  Senator Greenwood  of the 1974 Estimates debate is in total head-on collision with the  Senator Greenwood  of a previous Estimates debate. He has totally misrepresented, as he did before the Estimates Committee, the debate which established the principle on which he seeks to rely today. We are becoming used to misrepresentation from  Senator Greenwood.  Last night he completely misrepresented what the Committee said on the matter of legal aid. In fact he used words which were in total conflict with what the Senate Committee was saying. I would like to refer  Senator Greenwood  to the 1971 Estimates Committee B discussion on the matter which gave rise to the enunciation of the principle about which we are talking today. 
I will indeed, and  Senator Greenwood  will get even less comfort from that. He will have to pardon me, having subjected the Senate to so much punishment in recent days, if I have to become a little tedious in pointing out his errors in this matter. In 1971 Estimates Committee B was considering the estimates of the Australian Broadcasting Commission.  Senator McAuliffe  raised some question as to whether the Commission should supply information about tenders it had made or may have made to get the rights to televise rugby league over its networks.  Senator Greenwood,  rising to the defence of an ABC officer who was present and who was a little unwilling to provide this information, as reported at page 408 of the Hansard report of Senate Estimates Committee B of 1971, said: 

 Mr Chairman, I think that I and the officers of the Broadcasting Commission with me here have an understanding of the points on which  Senator McAuliffe  is seeking information, but I must inform the Committee that the areas which  Senator McAuliffe  is asking about are areas of business negotiation. The ABC is in competition with commercial television stations . . . 
That point is not dissimilar to the one made by  Mr Mollison  - in areas where it wants a program. For this information to be made publicly available is possibly to prejudice the Commission's negotiating ability when it comes on a particular occasion to negotiate the rights. 
This point was raised by  Mr Mollison  when he was asked to disclose his purchasing program.  Senator Greenwood  considers it unreasonable that  Mr Mollison  should withhold information from everybody in the world who might be in the market for the paintings on which  Mr Mollison  has his eye. On a previous occasion, as I am indicating now,  Senator Greenwood  was of a totally different view. He believed that it was eminently reasonable for the ABC to want to keep dark what it might have been offering for the right to televise rugby league, but that it was quite unreasonable for  Mr Mollison  to beg a similar indulgence from an estimates committee.  Senator Greenwood  said: 
I think  Mr Gifford  is able to inform the Committee as to the total amount spent on obtaining sporting rights for television performances over the last year without the break-up. I will ask him to do so. But to get the other material I think is a matter of policy and judgment for the Commission and I am quite sure that the officers will certainly take back the interest of  Senator McAuliffe.  But I am not able to give any assurance, and I think the officers with me here are not able to give any assurance, that the Commission can provide this material. I think that when the Parliament gives to the 
Broadcasting Commission the autonomy which it has, it gives it effectively. 
Later  Senator Greenwood  said: 
I think that in terms of confidential information being granted to  Senator McAuliffe,  there would be much opportunity for discussion to take place, but I think the considerations I have mentioned are relevant considerations in terms of the Broadcasting Commission's negotiating ability. 
If  Senator Greenwood  experiences some difficulty in seeing the analogy that I am attempting to draw for him I think we should have a rather closer look at what happened before Estimates Committee A. 
I am indeed,  Senator, in  my own time.  Senator Greenwood  is not content only to occupy the whole time of the Senate; he wants to interrupt anybody else who attempts to get a little bit of air time. In my own time I will refer  Senator Greenwood  to that also, to his increasing discomfiture. Recently before Estimates Committee A,  Mr Mollison  raised much the same point that was raised by the ABC officer to whom I have referred. He said in effect: 'I will tell you if you insist but I would rather not tell you what my shopping list is for the pictures and objects of art covered by this item of $4.6m '.  Mr Mollison  said: 
With respect,  Mr Chairman  and senators, I point out that this is a public forum and the proceedings of the Committee are a matter of public record. The disclosure of which of the many works of art on offer at the present time are known by us to be available or are known still to be privately owned and thought to be highly desirable could jeopardise negotiations for these works in the future. It might cause them to be withdrawn or the work otherwise placed beyond the resources or the reach of the national collection. 
I will attempt to conceal nothing if  Senator Greenwood  will give me time.  Senator Jessop,  who had asked the original question, expressed himself satisfied with the answer and said later on that he would not press the matter. 
-Oh God!  Senator Jessop  said that he was not asking for any further details. When  Senator Greenwood  later dissented from my ruling that  Mr Mollison  would not have to give this information, the Committee went into private session and Senate Greenwood's dissent from my ruling was considered by the Committee. He was left like a shag on a rock. He was the only one; even his own colleagues would not support him so patently unrealistic was his stand. 
I acknowledge that  Mr Mollison  said he would not mind giving the Committee the information in secret. I acknowledge that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy),  who was in control of the evidence being given to the Committee, advised that in his view, even though  Mr Mollison  was prepared to give the information in secret, the information should not be given at all. On consideration, even though I had at first said I thought it desirable that we should be given it in secret, I ruled that although the Committee undoubtedly had the power in terms of the 1 97 1 resolution to compel  Mr Mollison  to give the information if it were of that mind, the Senate also had a discretion not to require him to give that information. This ruling was upheld by the Committee with  Senator Greenwood  the only dissentient. 
Let us look at what  Senator Greenwood  is attempting to achieve. He is not attempting to enlarge the powers of the Senate or its Committees; he is seeking to limit them, because if our power in this regard is confined to the interpretation for which he contends, it means that where we have the power we are compelled to exercise it. Let us take this view to its logical conclusion. Suppose some honourable senator considering the defence estimates asked some departmental officer who came before a Committee for information of a highly confidential nature, the sort of information which might be considered to be of some advantage to potential enemies of this country. There is no question that under the resolution on which  Senator Greenwood  relies the Committee would have the power to compel an answer to that question, even if it were given in secret. We all know the limitations of secrecy in this place. We all know that once a bit of information is given anywhere in this Parliament it soon becomes public. Does  Senator Greenwood  mean to tell us that this Committee or the  chairman  of this Committee would not have a power to rule, subject to being overruled by the rest of the Committee or later by the Senate, that that information should not be given at all? It is not to limit the powers of the Committee or the Senate to say that it is to have this discretion; it is to give reality to such powers. 
I suggest that the gross inconsistency between  Senator Greenwood's  attitudes when he was attempting to cover up and his present attitude is shown by the fact that now he believes that any exposure of facts or events, no matter how embarrassing, no matter how damaging to this country, is to be encouraged in the interest of an attack on this Government. He has asked me to quote what he said in a debate in the Senate when a Committee came back with a recommendation for the adoption of the principle on which he relies, that is, the power of Senate Committees to compel witnesses to give evidence.  Senator Murphy  moved the motion which had been embodied in the Committee's report, and, of course  Senator Greenwood  was not game to oppose it. Let us see how enthusiastic he was about adopting this proposal. As reported at page 2314 of the 1971 Senate Hansard, he said while giving a sort of mealy-mouthed appearance of support for the principle that had been put forward by  Senator Murphy: 
But the point is that if details are to be supplied for his interest - 
That is,  Senator McAuliffe  's interest -  or for the interest of anybody else as to what moneys are paid to these other sporting bodies by the ABC for the opportunity of televising their programs, one could imagine that there would be an advantage for commercial television interests. The ABC would be required to negotiate completely out in the open. Of course it would always be at a disadvantage. Presumably, it would have to pay more than other persons. In these circumstances one can only suppose that the Opposition - 
That is,  Senator Murphy  and senators who were then on the Opposition side -  has no concern as to whether there ought not to be some confidentiality simply to protect the expenditure of public funds. 
Could we translate that and say that in these circumstancesthat is, the circumstances of  Mr Mollison  's case- one can only suppose that  Senator Greenwood  has 'no concern as to whether there ought not to be some confidentiality simply to protect the expenditure of public funds'? One may well ask that question. Speaking at least for myself, I am not left in any doubt as to the answer. I think we can say on a careful reading of the speech in the Senate which  Senator Greenwood  has been so insistent on my referring to, that he gave reluctant, equivocal and qualified support to the principle upon which he now relies. Of course he has in his own interests completely misread this principle. The principle is not that the Senate or a Senate Committee must on all occasions use its power to compel a witness to give information which it wants. There is no doubt about that power. There was no doubt that I ruled that the Committee had that power. The power was conceded by  Senator Murphy  but the Committee, which upheld my ruling, said that even though it had this power there must be occasions when it may use its discretion not to use that power. That is what we did in this case. 
I am confident that the Committee did the right thing. In his dissent which is contained in the report of the Committee  Senator Greenwood  misrepresented the position once again when he said that on this occasion a discretion was exercised to protect a Minister who did not wish to provide information even though there was a willingness on the part of the person having custody of the information to provide the material in private session of the Committee. Are we to say the same about  Senator Greenwood  back in 1971? Did he want to withhold this information merely to protect himself? The curious double standard of  Senator Greenwood  in this matter stands exposed to the whole Senate. I do not think he has a feather to fly and the sooner he resiles from this position and forgets all about this incident the better it will be for his reputation. 

 - Mr Chairman, I point out that what you have said does not exactly express what the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has done. In the first instance the words were 'or advise', the verb, and in the second instance the words were 'or advice '. 

 - Mr Chairman, may I ask a question? When we have completed our consideration of the Bill would it be possible for the whole Bill to be re-numbered so that we do not have clause 14A and clause 14B. Could the clauses follow a normal sequence? Would that be in conflict with what has been decided here? 
-Throughout the debate on this Bill- both the debate in the Senate and the public debate- I have been struck by the fact that most of the opponents of the Bill do not seem to have taken the trouble to read it. It has been quite clear in the spate of letters that have been received from the 'Festival of Darkness' and kindred organisations that very few people have bothered to read the Bill. I suggest that this applies also to  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I do not ask them to read the Bill in all its detail but merely to look through the table of provisions and they will see that the Bill contains clauses relating to marriage counselling organisations, reconciliation, welfare and custody of children, maintenance and property. 

 -Does Senator Carrick say that he has read the Bill? Has he read anything in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs about counselling? 
-About making the facilities of the family court available to people? 
-Even when proceedings have not been initiated? 
Does this not constitute some improvement on the existing law? If honourable senators have closed their minds to everything that is in this Bill they should level with us right from the start. Their attitude towards this BUI is that they abhor everything about it. I can understand that, but they should not misstate what is in the Bill. The Bill contains a great deal designed to buttress marriage and to prevent divorce. If honourable senators would only read the Bill I suggest that they could not possibly maintain the attitude that they have taken on the threshold of this debate. 
Once again I urge  Senator Greenwood  to study the document which emerged from the deliberations of the Senate Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. 
If the honourable senator would let me have a few moments to speak I could point out to him that there he will find that the Committee, whilst expressing the wish that all matters involving matrimonial causes should be heard in a Family Court, faced the fact that for reasons of geography and manpower this desirable state will not emerge overnight. In the meantime federal jurisdiction will be conferred on courts of summary jurisdiction as it is at the present time. In the case cited by  Senator Wood,  an aggrieved wife in Bourke would go to the Court of Petty Sessions in Bourke for the time being. We hope, when this scheme gets off the ground, that magistrates will be excluded from matters concerning the family, that we will have a two-tiered judicial system and that the court will be a circuit court. Surely it is not beyond the resources of this country to bring justice in matrimonial affairs to remote parts of the continent. That is what we hope will happen. In the meantime, citizens in the situation cited by  Senator Wood  will be in the same position they are in today and will have to go to their local court. 
I speak to the point raised by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I agree that by and large parties get their message across to a tribunal better through lawyers than they do if they have to do it themselves. I join issue with some people who are associated with divorce law reform and who want completely to eliminate the lawyer from the process. I agree that in an ideal society we would not have lawyers, but we are very far from having reached that ideal society. There is no doubt in my mind that justice is frequently not done when parties cannot afford to have a lawyer. 
One of the things we also had in mind, in addition to the point raised by  Senator Button  on this matter, was that this family court should be set up as an institution which will be different from traditional courts in which matters of this kind are heard. It will be a much more informal court. For instance, we presume that there will be no robing and none of the formidable trappings of judicial office which I know from my own experience many litigants find rather off-putting and in some instances rather terrifying. We envisage a court in which the presiding judge will make more effort than in the past to establish direct contact with the parties and to be sure that he understands the wishes of the parties. We want to take the soullessness out of the procedures which are associated with proceedings where lawyers are involved. I think that I will be able to elaborate on that point in moving another amendment to this clause a little later. 

 Senator Button made the point that unfortunately there are lawyers who consult their own convenience rather than the convenience of their clients as to when matters come on for hearing. It is a very familiar occurrence, in my observation, that lawyers do not always put their clients first in the matter of time. A busy practitioner might have something to do in another court on the day when the client's matter comes on and he manages to persuade himself with a bit of rationalisation that it is in the interests of the client that the matter should be postponed. We want to be sure that it was the party and not the lawyer whose convenience was being met in this case. The further point I make is that we believe that, if the sort of court we have in mind comes to fruition, the parties will not feel loath to represent themselves before a judge in matters of this kind. 
Most of the amendments proposed by the Senate Select Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs were adopted by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  and that is why he has been moving them. There are about half a dozen amendments which the Attorney-General has not seen fit to adopt, and the Committee still wishes to have these amendments made to the Bill. I move: 
In sub-clause (2 ) insert the following new paragraph: (aa) with the consent of those parries, interview them in Chambers, with or without Counsel, as the Judge thinks proper, with a view to effecting a reconciliation; and '. 
The thinking behind this amendment is that it provides a further facility in the reconciliation process- There is something rather like this in the Act as it stands at the present time. But the view seems to have been taken by the draftsman that to leave a function for the judge in divorce proceedings to act as a conciliator is in some way inappropriate. That seems to be the reason why this was dropped. But the Committee took the view that in a case in which there appeared to be a possibility of reconcilation the judge should not be excluded from the reconciliation process and that he could be endowed with the function which is expressed in this amendment. That is, at any stage in the proceedings when he thought a reconciliation possible the judge himself could step down from the bench and invite the parties or one of them to come into his chambers- he might decide it would be better not to have the lawyers around on such an occasion- and talk to them about the possibility of patching up the marriage. 
This, I think, also shows how seriously the Committee viewed the reconciliation process in this Bill and shows that it was quite serious in regarding the Bill not just as a measure for dissolving marriages but also as a measure for saving marriages wherever possible. 
-No, this is not mentioned in the report. This is something which arose later. In fact after the Committee had completed its deliberations I think  Senator Missen  was approached by an organisation in Melbourne. 
-He was persuaded of the worth of this amendment. The Committee met again. He suggested this to us and we all found it appealing, and that is how it finds its place here today. 

 - Mr Chairman, surely the only realistic way to look at the question of marriage counselling is to face the fact that there is absolutely no chance of marriage counselling being effective unless there is some willing cooperation on the part of the parties involved. You can direct them as much as you like with as many and as severe penalties as you like, but unless they go along to the marriage counsellor willingly the whole exercise is fruitless. What this amendment does is to face that reality. After all, let us look at the context in which the word advise' is being used instead of the word 'direct'. It is in the context of proceedings for an injunction under proposed section 90 which, as  Senator Greenwood  correctly says, contains very heavy and serious powers. In this situation surely it cannot be seriously suggested that marriage counselling will have any effect on the state of the parties merely because they are directed to see a marriage counsellor rather than advised to see a marriage counsellor. 
-Nothing in that deters me from holding to my view that it is totally unrealistic to view marriage counselling as having any chance of success where the parties are unwilling and are going along merely because they are compelled to go along. 
-Might I suggest a further small refinement? I suggest that the end of the clause should now read:   but failure to comply with a direction does not constitute a contempt of court. 
This is in place of the words 'such a direction'. This draws a distinction between a direction and advice. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (4) leave out 'such'. 
-Yes, just the word 'such'. I have moved that the word such' be omitted. 
Could I put it like this? In the first instance the words are or advise' which is the verb. In the second instance the words are 'or advice'. This does not now arise because the contempt of the court is confined to the failure to obey a direction. Does that express the wish of all parties? That is what I understand to be satisfactory to  Senator Greenwood  and to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  We now have the situation where the court can direct or advise as it sees fit. In the case of disobedience of a direction only the contempt of court arises. 
Yes, it does not arise. 
This is an historic occasion, on which I find myself in agreement with  Senator Greenwood  against the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  I appreciate that there was an innocent intention in framing sub-section  (4)  of proposed new section  17C  in this precise form, but lawyers are familiar with the damage that can be done when intentions that are held at the time of framing legislation are not adverted to by future Attorneys-General or by people in charge of the administration or implementation of an Act. I fear that a sort of dilution of functions which is against the spirit of an exclusive, separate Family Court could occur in the future no matter what was the intention of the draftsman in framing this sub-section. I feel strongly that the judges of the Family Court should be exclusively judges of the Family Court, with no other functions at all. For that reason I support the deletion of the words which would confer functions on judges of the Family Court other than those of the Family Court. 
I add one further thought. It is absurd to suggest that what is in these clauses amounts to the exclusion of judges from any participation in the making of regulations. Although the Parliament is to have the overseeing of these regulations and the control over the general policy of the regulations, surely it is absurd to imagine that if any judge, arising from his experience in running his court, saw the need for a regulation he would not have the ear of the Attorney-General of the day and would not have his suggestions taken into account. The suggestion seems to be implicit in what  Senator Greenwood  says that those administering the courts from day to day would have no say whatsoever in the making of regulations. He must know from his own experience that that is an absurd proposition. 

 - Mr Chairman, while the text is being examined, for the guidance of honourable senators perhaps  Senator Greenwood  would enlighten us as to the precise point of differentiation between his amendment and the words which the Attorney-General was prepared to accept. 
I present an interim report from the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on its inquiry into the clauses of the National Compensation Bill 1 974. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to move a motion to extend the time for the presentation of this Committee's report on the clauses of the National Compensation Bill 1974. 

 - Senator Greenwood is not content with resisting reform; he wants to set the clock back and reverse the tendencies of an enlightened interpretation of our existing divorce laws. A long line of authority indicates that judges have come to accept the notion that people may live under the same roof and yet, for all practical purposes, may be living separately. I do not need to refer to the cases; we are not in a court of law. But  Senator Greenwood  said, in answer to an interjection of mine, that he would advert to the authorities. The leading ones that lawyers will know are Crabtree v. Crabtree, Fewkes v. Fewkes and Hastings v. Hastings. They are recent cases. 
Hastings v. Hastings is a fairly recent case. It was decided in the South Australian courts in 1970. It is authority for this proposition: The parties had lived under the same roof but occupied separate bedrooms, had not had sexual intercourse, did not go to social functions together; and though the wife did not cook or perform any domestic services for the husband they were held to be living separately and apart within the meaning of section 28 (m) ofthe old Act. 
What really is the force of  Senator Greenwood  's proposition? It is well known that people with enough financial resources were always able to part when life together became intolerable and live in separate establishments, but people who are more poorly placed do not happen to be able to afford that luxury. What  Senator Greenwood  is really suggesting is that those who cannot afford to leave an intolerable household but who are forced, even though their marriage has become an empty husk, to stay together should be prevented from being regarded as having mentally, physically and emotionally severed the marital tie.  Senator Greenwood  seeks to reverse a humane tendency in judicial interpretation of the notion of separation which is well established in the authoritiesauthorities which  Senator Greenwood  chose to ignore. 
-The honourable senator did not advert to Crabtree v. Crabtree. He did not mention Hastings v. Hastings in which case the interpretation of the judge is quite contrary to his and has been established in the minds of all lawyers practising in this jurisdiction. The interpretation is that parties may live under the same roof and yet be living totally separate lives. 
-Senator Greenwood has unwittingly dropped his guard. He has made it quite clear that his intention in this debate is not to shed some light on a very profound human problem but to filibuster and to prolong this debate in order that this enlightened piece of legislation will not be carried. If that is his will, if that is his wish, I think he should make it quite clear to the people of Australia. He can go ahead and take all his pettifogging points, misinterpret the authorities and keep this debate going forever, but he will not be thanked by the people of Australia or by this Parliament. I assure him that he will not even be thanked by his own colleagues. 
-Very briefly, as the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to which this matter was referred for examination in some detail, I would like to associate myself with the remarks of  Senator Durack.  In my view the passage of this Bill by the Senate is as good an example of the workings of parliamentary democracy as I have witnessed in the time that I have been here. I want especially to compliment the senators on the opposite side of the chamber for their contribution to the deliberations of the Committee. I can honestly say that at no time when we were considering this Bill did we consider ourselves to be members of opposing parties in the Senate. The Bill was examined on its merits. We had an eye always, I feel, not to what advantage might accrue to either of our parties but only to what would be for the benefit of the community. 
I can honestly say that it has been my greatest experience in the working of this Parliament. I compliment and thank not only those senators on the other side of the chamber but also the senators on my own side of the chamber- Senators Everett and Button- for their work on this Committee. I think that most credit for this Bill must go to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  for his doggedness and his persistence in bringing this Bill forward, for his willingness to accept amendments and suggestions for change, and for his flexibility and his general sincerity in attempting to get a better Family Law Bill before this Parliament. I think it is a compliment to the Senate, to the members ofthe Committee and, above all, to the Attorney-General. 
-Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen reports of statements by a senior Opposition parliamentarian on a visit to the United States of America denigrating Australia and its economic situation? Does the Minister agree that it is inappropriate for any politician to make such comment while absent from Australia, particularly when the comment is wrong? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for the Media been drawn to expressions of some concern in the film industry in Australia that the funds available for the Australian Film Development Corporation may not be adequate to provide for a continuing flow of production and employment in this industry in the next 6 or 7 months? Does the Minister regard the $364,000 provided to the Corporation in this year's Budget as adequate support for the film industry? Will he take steps to ensure that the work opportunities created in the past 2 years are not put at risk by a decline in the Australian Government's financial support for the film industry? 
by leave- I should like to thank the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  for their gracious comments. As to the likely duration of our tenure of office, I should like to remind both honourable senators of the old adage that a threatened man lives long. 
I have not been in this high office long enough to confirm the dire prediction which the honourable senator makes that I will find the industry in some state of disarray. All I can say is that during the last 24 hours my own life has been in some state of disarray and I have not had time to inform myself of the exact stage of the Jackson Committee's inquiry. I had some discussions about the Jackson Committee this morning with the permanent head of my Department but not of an extensive enough nature to be able to answer  Senator Cotton's  question. However, I will make further inquiries and let him have an answer in the near future. 
I was not aware that a telegram had been sent to my predecessor in this office and I will look into that aspect of the question immediately. However, I understand that the Department of Manufacturing Industry did transport considerable quantities of urgently needed Government materials to Darwin in the immediate wake of the cyclone disaster. Most of the vehicles used for this task now have been withdrawn and supplies for the Darwin population will continue to be transported by established hauliers. It is expected that in the immediate future, because of the fact that the township is now in the process of being rebuilt, there obviously will not be as much work for established hauliers as there normally would be. But I can assure the honourable senator that there is no intention on the part of the Government or any of its departments to supplant orin any way affect the prosperity of established hauliers. 
-As a preliminary matter I would suggest to honourable senators that it is about time that they became accustomed to calling the new justice by his correct title, he having now received his commission.  His  correct title is  Mr Justice  Murphy, and I propose to refer to him in that style. 
-He has received his commission. I am not aware that  Senator Murphy,  as he then was, gave any opinion to the Government on the constitutionality of the Bill in question. Any advice that he gave, as I undertsand it, was limited as to whether the correct procedures had been adopted to enable the Bill to be the subject of a double dissolution. It was not relevant for him to pass on the constitutionality or otherwise of the Bill because the Government was proceeding always on the basis that it did have the constitutional basis to present this Bill to the Parliament. Therefore, I believe that the question does not arise as to the propriety of  Mr Justice  Murphy sitting on the Bench which will consider this legislation. 
I also remind honourable senators opposite that there is ample precedent for ex-Ministers and ex-members of this Parliament, when elevated to the Bench, proceeding immediately to take their place on the Bench and to adjudicate on the constitutionality of legislation which was considered in this Parliament when they were members of the Parliament. One need only consider the position of  Mr Justice  Spicer who had been elevated to the Commonwealth Industrial Court, or the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration as it was then called, and who was called upon almost immediately to sit in judgment on the validity of an Act which had recently been amended according to his own efforts in this Parliament to get it amended. I refer particularly to the sections of that Act which altered the procedures for holding union elections. Shortly after he had piloted these amendments through this Parliament,  Mr Justice  Spicer sat on several matters involving the validity of trade union elections and obviously felt no embarrassment in adjudicating on legislation which he had helped to pilot through this Parliament.  Sir Garfield  Barwick, the Chief Justice of the High Court, also sat and adjudicated on matters which had been considered in this Parliament when he was Attorney-General. I think this question illustrates a general attitude of the Opposition that there should be one rule for Liberal ex-senators and ex-members and another for Labor ex-senators and ex-members. 
I am informed that parts (1), (2) and (3) of the honourable senator's question are correct. In relation to part (4), as the replies to parts ( 1 ) to (3) are in the affirmative they publicly clear  Mr Darby  of such accusations. 
I think that there is some significance in the fact that both of the speakers in this debate from the Opposition side so far have been members of Parliament who have been selected by their States in accordance with the tradition which we seek to uphold, namely, to fill Senate vacancies caused by members of their own party. In order to underline the extent to which this tradition has taken hold in this country 1 would like briefly to remind honourable senators that senators in the same category in this chamber are as follows:  Senator DrakeBrockman  was appointed in 1958,  Senator Davidson  in 1961,  Senator Sim  in 1964,  Senator Webster  in 1964 and  Senator Cotton  in 1965.  Senator Withers,  the eloquent apologist but not defender of  Mr Lewis,  was appointed in this way in 1966.  Senator Poyser  was appointed in 1 966; that excellent appointment was a tribute to the judgment of the legislature of his State.  Senator Laucke  was appointed in 1967 and the egrerious  Senator Greenwood  in 1968.  Senator Brown  was appointed in 1 970, as was the honourable senator who has just resumed his seat, and nearly last but I hope not least, myself in 1971. I might remark that the predecessor of the present rather aggressive, rather brash new Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Robert  Askin, who estimated himself to be just as tough a fighter as  Mr Lewis  baulked at the proposition that he should reject precedents so brashly as to decline to appoint me. Last, and by no means least  Senator Bonner,  who I am sorry is not in the Senate chamber at this moment, was appointed in this way. 
It may seem odd that a radical social democrat party such as ours should appeal so unashamedly to the precedent. But I would have thought that  Senator Withers,  whose amendment I find very attractive, could have gone the whole hog and condemned rather more straightforwardly the admitted departure from precedent that we have seen from this brash neophyte,  Mr Lewis-  he is known in the State Parliament, by the way, as the bull-roarer from Bowral- is a man who shoots from the hip, gets brainstorms and then thinks later or gets leaned on later by the very hard-headed members of his own Party. I think that the contrast between  Mr Lewis  and  Senator Withers  could not be more wide.  Senator Withers  - 
1 will accept suggestions. I have heard even harsher things than that said about him. I do not think there can be a greater contrast between the political style of  Mr Lewis  and the political style of  Senator Withers  whose judgment and wiliness 1 have come to respect in the time I have been here. I would think that a man like  Senator Withers  would be horrified at such a proposition. 1 think that we see a fair illustration of this tonight. He would be horrified to read that this wild boy from the bush,  Mr Lewis,  thinks that he should tear up the rules and do what he has been suggesting over the last few days that he was going to do. I am sure that  Senator Withers  and the more hard-headed people in his Party would have contemplated the possible consequences of the course of action which  Mr Lewis  seeks to set in train. 
Honourable senators opposite, 1 ask you to contemplate this set of circumstances: Imagine, and from what I have heard from you lately it does not take much imagining, that the electors of this country should go so crazy as to re-elect a Liberal government. I ask honourable senators to envisage the situation of a Liberal Government in this country and a Liberal majority in this chamber of, say, 31 senators to 29 senators; in other words a possibility, given some sort of rationality in policy, of a stable government in this country- just a possibility. I ask honourable senators to not forget I am speaking hypothetically. Nonetheless I think honourable senators will concede that, if we have a government in the House of Representatives of the same complexion as the party with the majority in the Senate there is a possibility that that government, no matter how mistaken its philosophy, could give some sort of stable government to this country. 
I ask honourable senators to stretch their imagination so far as to imagine again in this country the misfortune of a Liberal-Country Party government. I say to  Senator DrakeBrockman  that it is impossible that there would be a dog without a tail. I ask honourable senators to imagine a Liberal-Country Party government and in this chamber a majority for the government of 3 1 senators to 29 senators. Imagine some sort of a catastrophe, such as a Liberal senator from Tasmania falling over in the street and being bitten by a dog with rabies and perishing, and a senator from South Australia having the misfortune to die of old age or of the manifold misfortunes that beset the human species. I hasten to add that I am not pointing the bone at anybody. The vicissitudes of life are such that one can imagine that all of a sudden we could have a shortage of Liberal senators from Tasmania and a shortage of Liberal senators from South Australia. Honourable gentlemen like  Mr Reece  in Tasmania and  Mr Dunstan  in South Australia might be called upon to exercise the sort of judgment that is being exercised by  Mr Lewis  in New South Wales at this moment. If they were to decide in the light of the damaging precedent that had been set by the brash  Mr Lewis  that Bob's your uncle, the rule book has been torn up, they could go in for the politics of the gutter and replace these unfortunate senators from Tasmania and South Australia with Labor senators. 
We would then have a situation that across Kings Hall we might have a Liberal-Country Party government that had been elected a year ago, 2 years ago or even for the gestation period of 9 months, which is somehow said to be damaging to us because  Senator Murphy  was elected only 9 months ago, and in the Senate there was an adventitious majority for the wicked socialists of 3 1 senators to 29 senators. The wicked socialists, taking a leaf out of the book of their opponents, the devoted protagonists of democracy who saved Australia from the wicked socialists by refusing Supply, say: 'Well, that goes for us too. We also will refuse Supply'. If that happened the democratically elected Liberal government would be thrown out by the sheer accident and unprincipled conduct of the Labor governments in South Australia and Tasmania and democracy would be denied. I suggest that those are the things that are exercising the minds of shrewd, wily people like the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, and I would think most of the sensible people in the Liberal and Country Parties throughout Australia. 
I predict- of course all predictions are dangerousthat the bull-roarer from Bowral in the next 24 or 36 hours will be told by the harder headed people in his party that he just cannot go ahead with that silly sort of project and that he had better pull his head in. We will find that he has taken constitutional advice and, much against his will, he has decided, even though it would have been better for the people pf Australia if he had proceeded to put somebody from his party or the Country Party into the Senate, all things considered that he will not go ahead with his proposal. Nothing is certain in this life. Maybe he is, as  Mr Gorton  suggested, off his head. Maybe he will not listen to advice. Maybe we will get somebody in defiance of precedent in this Parliament, but I predict- I would even be prepared to bet- that  Mr Lewis  will not go on with this proposition. I find a sort of attractive illogicality to the argument that has been put by  Senator Withers  tonight. What he says in effect is that Lewis is wrong but you, meaning us, drove him mad so you cannot really blame him for being wrong. 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against cither House of Parliament or any Member of such  House - 
The persistent references by  Senator James  McClelland to the Premier of New South Wales have been such as to be offensive. 1 think they should be withdrawn. 
1 should not like to go too far in repeating the comment about  Mr Lewis  that was made by  Mr Gorton  if that offends  Senator Laucke. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)- Senator McLaren  I call for order and I ask you to respect my call.  Senator Marriott,  I call for order and I asked you to respect my call. I have been asked to rule on a point of order on whether offensive words or offensive expressions have been used. 1 think that we would be canvassing the argument a little to accept that they were in fact offensive words, but apparently they do offend  Senator Laucke. Senator James  McClelland, I suggest that perhaps you desist from using those expressions. 
Yes, I am sorry if I have offended a gentleman like  Senator Laucke  whom I respect greatly. I should like to point out that I was not really categorising  Mr Lewis  as mad; I was really quoting an opinion that had been expressed about him by one of his own Party. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTPerhaps we should not pursue that line. 
I will content myself with using a more neutral term such as odd. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I will hear the point of order that is at present being put. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I suggest to the Senate that we have allowed a certain amount of latitude in the course of this debate. Perhaps I might have intervened earlier. I did not because honourable senators had accepted the spirit of the debate and the manner in which it had proceeded up to that stage. It has proceeded in a reasonable spirit I suggest up to this point, and perhaps we can pursue it in that same spirit. I do not see anything offensive in the use of the word 'odd '. It does not appear to me to be an offensive expression but I suggest to  Senator James  McClelland that we try to preserve the spirit in which the debate has proceeded to this stage. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  in accordance with the spirit which you are quite properly seeking to maintain in this debate and in accordance with the standards of temperance of language which have characterised all contributions in this place by  Senator Wright,  I would be prepared to be a little more bland and to replace the word 'odd' with the word 'strange'. I await an objection to that word. I will now pass from the subject of  Mr Lewis,  whose name I think has been sufficiently bandied about in this place. I suggest that he has rated an importance which hardly belongs to him. The last reference I would like to make to  Mr Lewis  is to quote another distinguished Australian, the Premier of South Australia, who has suggested that what we have had from  Mr Lewis  in the last couple of days is an example of hillbilly politics. I will leave the matter there and let  Mr Lewis  rest in the Gunns Gully where he belongs. 
I would like to advert finally to a suggestion from  Senator Scott  reflecting on the propriety of  Mr Justice  Murphy sitting in judgment on his own legislation. I would like to refer him to a learned authority in these matters, Professor Sawer of the Australian National University. 
-Despite the dissenting judgment from  'Mr Justice'  Wright, Professor Sawer has suggested that an appropriate mix in the highest court of this country is, say, 4 technical lawyers- what the lawyers refer to as lawyers' lawyers- and 3 lawyers who have had political experience. In this he is supported by Chief Justice  Sir Garfield  Barwick who himself was a distinguished practitioner of the political arts, who went on to high office in the High Court and who has said on more than one occasion that political experience, far from disqualifying a lawyer from the exercise of his judicial functions, adds spice and flavour to his consideration of the problems that come before him. I would remind honourable senators that there is abundant precedent for the appointment of distinguished politicians to the judiciary.I say this without any malice and not with tongue in cheek. Distinguished practitioners of the political art who have come from this place include Chief 
Justice Latham;  Mr Justice  Spicer, whom I consider to have been a conspicuous success in the Australian Industrial Court and who, I might say, many people from the trade unions and from the other side of the political fence concede to have been a just, impartial and sensible judge; and of course more recently,  Mr Justice  Bowen who went to the Appeals Court of New South Wales only 3 months after having been reelected to this Parliament. These gentlemen, I think, illustrate the fact that courts are not diminished in any way by having added to their numbers men who have had distinguished careers iri this Parliament. 
Those of us who knew  Mr Justice  Murphy- I suggest that includes most honourable senators opposite- will have no doubt that he will be a distinguished, fair and impartial judge. The fact that he has been in the hurly burly of politics will in no way diminish his capacity to fulfil his role in the way that I believe most of the learned judges of the High Court have fulfilled their duties. I believe that the antics that we have seen from  Mr Lewis-  I am glad to say not supported by  Senator Withers-  over recent days have been an extravagant reaction to the controversy which has surrounded the rather flamboyant, ebullient character who refreshed us all and who adorned this chamber for many years. We on this side, and I am sure in their hearts most honourable senators on the other side, wish  Mr Justice  Murphy well and in our hearts believe that he will be a fine judge as he was a fine politician. 
-As might be inferred from what I have said, we on this side regard  Senator Withers'  amendment as a worthy one and we are prepared to accept it. 
-This is a highly complex and delicate problem. In view of recent items that have appeared in the Press, notably an article in yesterday's 'Australian Financial Review', I have only this morning had a quite lengthy discussion with the head of my Department about this whole matter. As a result of that discussion I find that it is an even more complex problem than I had suspected. I intend to resume these discussions with the head of my 
Department later today. I can assure the honourable senator that this matter is in the very forefront of my preoccupations, new as I am to the problems of this portfolio. It is not a problem for which I can see an easy or an immediate solution. However, as I said, I intend to continue my discussions with the Department and I can assure the honourable senator that I will let him have an answer to his question as soon as I am in a position to do so, and I hope that will be soon. 
-As I recall it, this Bill was introduced on the last night of the last sittings of Parliament by the then AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Murphy.  I must confess that 1 have not yet found time to read the Bill which roughly is of the proportions of Tolstoy's 'War and Peace'. I had intended to take it home to read in bed one night but I have not as yet mustered the strength to carry it home. I have discussed it with the new Attorney-General. As  Senator Webster  has suggested, the reason the Bill has been withdrawn from the Senate notice paper is that the Attorney-General wants the opportunity to study it and perhaps redraw it in the light of representations he has already had. 
The Attorney-General has assured me that he is ready to receive submissions and representations from any persons interested in the final form of the Bill, including representatives of the various stock exchanges in Australia, and that the Bill will be reintroduced in the other House, as is appropriate in view of the fact that the present Attorney-General is a member of the House of Representatives, after he has received and considered such representations. I think honourable senators will recall that this was the course followed by the former Attorney-General in relation to an equally important Bill, the Trade Practices Bill, and that that emerged as a more comprehensive and fairer Act as a result of his consideration of wide representations on the matter. We hope that this also will be the case in relation to the Bill mentioned by  Senator Webster. 
I have not had time this morning to read the 'Australian Financial Review' and so my attention has not been drawn to the article in question. However, I suppose it is a matter of common knowledge that middle ranking executives and even higher ranking executives of various undertakings throughout the country have been disemployed- I think that this is the soft word- as a result of the current downturn in industry. That is only to be expected. I assure the honourable senator that none of these displaced persons has yet applied to me for a job. However, I would anticipate that the measures taken by the Government over recent months will rapidly cure this position and that these gentlemen and ladies who have been unfortunate enough to lose their employment will rapidly be re-absorbed in industry. I do not know whether my Department has taken out any statistics but I shall ask it and let the honourable senator have any figures that are available. 
In the short time that I have occupied my present position I have become aware that the plight of the motor car industry, the necessity for structural change in the motor car industry and an overall plan for that industry are at the forefront of the Government's planning for the future. I have obviously not had enough time to put myself forward as having mastered this problem or even being entitled to speak with any authority on the matter. I can assure the honourable senator that from the little I have learnt about the plight of the motor car industry I can say that it will occupy a very prominent place in my sense of obligation in this portfolio. I will certainly be urging that the Government should develop an overall plan for the motor car industry, and that when such a plan has matured it should be made public and every opportunity should be given for honourable senators and for all who are interested to debate the subject. 
I know that the Government is taking daily steps to ensure that there will be no further dismissals. I am not able to tell the honourable senator what stage has been reached but I will make further detailed inquiries and let him have a reply. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a White Paper entitled 'Science and Technology in the Service of SocietyThe Framework for Australian Government Planning'. 
I can recall having said what the honourable senator attributes to me in relation to this Bill. I was unaware that the Bill had been introduced into the House of Representatives, but I am sure that there is no intention on the part of the AttorneyGeneral to rush the Bill through the House of Representatives. I am unaware what stage the Bill has reached in the House of Representatives, but I reiterate the assurance that was given to me by the Attorney-General that full opportunity would be given to any interested party to make representations for amendment of the Bill before it was pressed on with in the House of Representatives. 
-By way of preface I should warn  Senator Carrick  who interjected not to be too eager to bandy about a trivial comment based on a letter which the 'Sydney Morning Herald' published the other day because there is more than a suggestion that such a comment is defamatory. I will not go any further into that point. I suppose that any appointment of a practising politician to the bench could be described as a political act. I can recall a few such acts which did not attract any criticism from those on the Liberal side of politics or from the newspapers. For example, in 1956 a  Senator Spicer  was appointed Chief Judge of what was then known as the Commonwealth Court of Conciliation and Arbitration. That appointment did not attract any criticism. Indeed, the Bolte Government did not express any disapproval by refusing to appoint a politician of the same stripe - 
-Yes, I have noticed reports of this matter and am closely looking into it. I will let  Senator Townley  have an answer within the next couple of days. 
-My attention has indeed been drawn to this item a few moments ago by the asker of the question. Though I should hate to impute anything but the highest motives to my friend  Senator Cotton,  I must confess that on a cursory examination of this article there is some danger that the honourable senator may find himself in breach of the legislation mentioned by the questioner. For this reason: The implication of the question is that even the leadership of the Opposition is up for grabs, because presumably any hypothetical portfolio would include that of Leader of the Party. This is at variance with recent pronouncements by the Opposition claiming that there is no possible dispute about the leadership of the Opposition, that it is firmly in the hands of the present Leader, despite occasional little flurries suggesting that there may be another great loyalist who has his eye on the job. So I would suggest that in fact  Senator Cotton  should examine what he said and perhaps make a little qualification that the one hundred thousandth member, if a woman, can aspire to any job in the shadow cabinet but not the leadership, about which there is apparently no doubt whatsoever in the ranks of the Opposition. 

 -When Senator Townley asked me the question earlier this morning I informed him that I had the matter under consideration. In fact I had been considering it immediately before entering the chamber. I can now inform him that I understand that Electrolytic Zinc Co. has said that it will cut production by 20 per cent and lay off 1 50 to 200 employees. I understand that the company announced yesterday that this was due to a decline in demand. The problem, as I am informed, is mainly due to a sudden loss of some major export market and a sudden fall in the demand for zinc for galvanising by John Lysaght (Aust) Ltd of Port Kembla, producer of sheet steel, which has been affected by the general downturn in sales of various products such as refrigerators and motor cars. Following representations by the Lysaght company the Special Minister of State sent a reference on sheet steel to the Temporary Advisory Authority on 14 January. The Authority's report is being considered now by the Government and a decision will be announced shortly. It must be obvious that this decision will affect the fate of Electrolytic Zinc. The decline in export sales is partly a result of lower international prices. I can assure  Senator Townley  that I have arranged for a senior officer of my Department to visit the company today to discuss the situation with the company, and that the Government will request the company to defer any retrenchments until the Government has had an opportunity to consider what action it might be able to take to assist the company in avoiding or reducing retrenchments. 
I will undertake to do that. 
I have not had an opportunity of discussing this matter with the Attorney-General since it was raised yesterday by  Senator Greenwood.  I will do so this morning and let him have an answer today. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report to the AttorneyGeneral by  Mr A.  T. Carmody, ComptrollerGeneral of Customs, on a proposed national law enforcement authority. 
I had not heard the rumour until it was mentioned by the honourable senator. Judging on yesterday's performance and some other recent performances, the honourable member for Bruce would appear to have the exact qualifications which are sought by the Premier of New South Wales. 
I have not seen the exact report to which the honourable senator refers. I have seen a similar item on the subject in the Melbourne 'Sun' newspaper which makes it clear that certain lawyers who live in the past wish to perpetuate a situation in which resort to the law should be considered to be a privilege only of the well off. 

 -If Senator Wright will permit me to continue, I can state that the scheme which was introduced in no way constitutes a threat to the right of the citizen to have a lawyer of his own choice. Fears which have been expressed in this article, amongst others, that this scheme represents the thin edge of the wedge of the nationalisation of lawyers are so much hysterical nonsense. The scheme was introduced after discussion with the profession. I know that in New South Wales at least- 
-Senator Webster, of course, is an authority on all things legal. I will overlook that interjection. As I said, the scheme was introduced after consultation with all sections of the profession. At least in New South Wales it has the hearty approval of the vast majority of the members of the profession. I think that in years to come this scheme will be regarded as just one of the monuments to the greatest Attorney-General this country has had. 
I am instructed that the backlog of citizenship aplications would not be caused by any delay on the part of the Commonwealth Police Force. That force responds to requests by the Department of Labor and Immigration for character checks of applicants but there would be not more than two or three weeks delay at any time in carrying out these checks. Field inspections are not undertaken unless a particular case calls for further checks following an adverse report being disclosed in Commonwealth Police Force records. 
-Before replying to the honourable senator I would like to express my gratification at his stand as defender of the unions and his displeasure at any suggestion that there might be such a thing as union bashing. This is a new note for us to hear from the Opposition and we can only welcome it. As to what I said to a gathering of textile manufacturers and the alleged conflict between what I said then and the comments of the Prime Minister in Tasmania the other day, I think the honourable senator is over simplifying both what I said and what the Prime Minister said. None of us would suggest that what has been done about tariffs has nothing to do with unemployment in the textile industry. I would be the last to suggest that the tariff has had nothing to do with the difficulties in the textile industry. I think a close reading of what the Prime Minister said would indicate that he was not suggesting either that the tariff cuts had nothing to do with the situation of the textile industry. If honourable senators are genuinely interested, as they claim to be, in the solution of this country's present troubles they would not be attacking the Prime Minister for saying something about restraint in wage claims which we are led to believe is part of their policy. One may ask oneself, whether honourable senators opposite are genuinely interested in a solution of this country's problems or whether they merely wish to play politics over its difficulties. 
-The honourable senator would seem to be reflecting upon the efficiency of the securities industry if he is suggesting that a period of 12 weeks is insufficient for it to prepare its submissions on this Bill to the Government. I remind the honourable senator that the Bill was introduced into this place as long ago as 5 December 1974. 
-That is not the issue. I appreciate, of course, that stockbrokers, like other people, go on holidays during December and perhaps- although they are crying poor mouth- stay on holidays during January. But it is hard to believe that if they are so adversely affected by this Bill they or their lawyers or accountants or other persons briefed on their behalf have not found the time to put their submission to this Government. I also suggest that the honourable senator is reflecting on the competence of his Party colleagues in the other place if he suggests that they are somehow caught unprepared to deal with a Bill which was introduced into their House on 12 December and which, of course, has been available for their study and criticism since 5 December. Perhaps it is suggested that the communication between honourable senators opposite and their counterparts in the other House is so poor that honourable senators opposite were not able to make available to the Liberal members of the House of 
Representatives a copy of the Bill which has been available since 5 December, or that members of the House of Representatives have not had the initiative to go to the records office and get a copy of it. As to whether I have read the Bill- yes, I have read it. 
In respect of what is happening in the other place today, there is no intention to rush the Bill through the House of Representatives and the honourable senator's information that the Bill is to be guillotined is, I can assure him, misinformation. There will be no denial of an opportunity for anybody on the Opposition side in the House of Representatives to debate the Bill if he wishes to do so. The Bill will not be concluded today; in fact, it is doubtful whether it will be concluded in this period of sittings. The Bill will come here then and there will be ample opportunity for it to be debated here. I would suggest that if the honourable senator and  Senator Greenwood,  who has also asked questions on this matter and who is obviously very tetchy today about it, are really concerned that all the views on this matter should be put before the Government, the best service they can do to those who have been lobbying them about this Bill is to suggest to them that they get off their backsides and let the Government have their submissions. 
I am not aware of what transpired at the special meeting of the Law Institute of Victoria but I am grateful to the honourable senator for bringing it to my attention. I am aware, as I have always been aware, that there are certain imperfections in the system of legal aid that was pioneered by  Senator Murphy  in the period he was AttorneyGeneral. In fact, just before he ceased to occupy that office I had discussions with him and suggested that there was room for a lot of improvement. He was most receptive to that suggestion, as I am sure will be his successor. I will certainly take up the matter with the present Attorney-General. If  Senator Missen  could let me have a little more detailed information about what transpired at the meeting of the Law Institute of Victoria after we rise today, I will be happy to convey this information to the Attorney-General and to discuss it with him. The Attorney-General may suggest that  Senator Missen  should be present at such discussions. I am most anxious, as I am sure the AttorneyGeneral is, to see that any wrinkles or shortcomings in this system are ironed out and that we get the best system of legal aid in this country. To that end I will certainly take note of what  Senator Missen  has said and see what can be done to improve the situation. 
The Nylex Corporation, along with some other plastic manufacturers, has applied for emergency protection from the Temporary Assistance Authority. My Department has reviewed the application. The matter is now before the Special Minister of State for his decision on whether a reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority will be made. 
I am unaware of the practice of the Commonwealth Police on such an occasion. I hope there is fairly close co-operation between the police forces of the various States and the Commonwealth Police, especially in cases, which must occur frequently, of overlapping jurisdiction. For example, I understand that there was a recent case which the New South Wales police were called upon to investigate. It looked like a common or garden variety burglary. But I am told it had overtones involving a possible conspiracy by Federal politicians. I imagine that this naturally would attract the attention of the Commonwealth Police. Even though I am not able to give a complete statement on the practice of the Commonwealth Police, I can envisage an occasion on which there would be a role for the Commonwealth Police in a case which, on the face of it, appeared to be purely a State crime. 
It is true that this morning's Press contains news of preliminary production statistics for the month of January which show falls in production across the board- as I think the present expression has it. The fall is due largely to seasonal factors, including the summer closedown of factories, and the effects of the New South Wales power dispute. To assess the trend in production one normally would refer to the seasonally adjusted figures; but on this occasion they underestimate production because the introduction of 4 weeks annual leave changed the previous seasonal picture. I conclude that while factory production fell off considerably in January we must await the February figures to gain an accurate indication of the trend. What the Government is doing to arrest this trend has been well publicised and almost universally approved. We have acted to restrain imports and to maintain production in the more severely affected industries such as textiles and motor vehicles. As far as the latter is concerned, I am pleased to report that on the latest information I have there is an indication of an upturn in the sales of locally manufactured motor vehicles. 
I have been somewhat bewildered by the logic of the 2 honourable senators who have spoken for the Opposition this afternoon. For example,  Senator Wood  advanced as an argument against the introduction of this Bill the proposition that there was nothing in the Australian Constitution requiring the holding of elections for the House of Representatives and for the Senate simultaneously. It would be rather surprising of the Government to introduce a Bill such as this if that were already in the Constitution. The purpose of our introducing this Bill is to change the Constitution because we consider it to be unsatisfactory. In support of his opposition to the Bill  Senator Wood  dragged out some of the tired old cliches about this place being a 
States House. If that were so, if the Senate were a States House, there is nothing in this Bill which would alter that situation. But once again seeing that this tired old cliche keeps recurring, I would like briefly to dispose of this proposition that there is any factual basis for the suggestion that this is a States House. 
In support of his proposition  Senator Wood  instanced an occasion some years ago when  Senator McKenna  walked into the chamber when there was a division on, looked around and did not knew where to go. This evidently suggests that it is commonplace in this House for honourable senators from the various States and the various parties to be dispersed willy-nilly around the benches voting according either to their consciences or the interests of their States when we all know, of course, that that happens on the rarest of occasions. It happens only very seldom and, to  Senator Wood  's credit, he is one of the people who does make the exception a little less exceptional. It is only on the rarest of occasions that anybody wandering into this chamber after having had no idea of what was being debated, is left in any doubt as to where his side stands in the division. 
This is not a States House. This is another party House. This is one of the things which makes it something of an anachronism. We go to the people to find out what they want in the way of a government according to the more democratic standards that are set for a vote for the House of Representatives. The people give their verdict and a government is established according to the way in which the people have voted for the House of Representatives. Then, by the quaint old-fashioned method of giving the people of Tasmania as many senators as the people of New South Wales, we get another House here which seems, of recent years, to have tried to set itself up as some sort of court of appeal from the decision of the people as registered in the result for the House of Representatives. 
If the Senate is going to reject this Bill again let us not do so on the ground that in some way we will be doing violence to an idea which has no validity anyway, that is, that this is a States House. As I have said, it is not a States House and even if it were this Bill would not be making any inroads on such an imagined principle. 
I found  Senator Scott's  contribution even more bewildering. He offered the proposition that somehow there was some totalitarian flavour to this Bill. He said that if we go in for the practice of simultaneous elections for the House of Representatives and half of the Senate, this inevitably must lead to the abolition of the Senate. That &lt;a proposition that strikes me as a magnificient non sequitur. I cannot see the connection between the proposition that we should try to minimise the number of elections by allowing the people to have their say simultaneously about half of the Senate and the whole of the House of Representatives, and a proposition to abolish to Senate. In order to defend a proposition like that  Senator Scott  has to get around the fact that until 1954 there had been only one occasion- in 1929- when there had not been simultaneous elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate. In order to justify his thesis he has to show somehow or other that chaos reigned in Australia until 1954. He has to explain why we did not get totalitarianism throughout that period. He has to show that since 1954 things have been more stable than they were before 1 954 when it is notorious, of course, that our system of government has never shown greater signs of instability than in recent years, in the time sine 1959 when we have had 9 national elections and only twice were there simultaneous elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate. I suggest that history is against  Senator Scott  and that his fears of the onset of some evil totalitarian regime, of some sinister plot by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to demolish democracy, just do not hold water. 

 Senator Scott also has to explain, as does  Senator Wood,  why such sinister interpretations were not placed upon a proposal such as we are advancing when the matter was considered back in 1958 and 1959 by the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review. That was an all party committee set up by the Menzies Government. Surely it is not to be suggested that there was any sinister totalitarian streak in the late great white father. Surely it is not suggested that the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review was some sort of subversive bolshevist organisation. That Committee consisted of a number of people, including such fire-eating radicals as  Senator Wright, Senator O'sullivan, Mr Downer  and  Mr Joske  of the House of Representatives, and  Mr Drummond  of the Country Party. The Committee recommended, I think with only  Senator Wright  dissenting precisely what we are contending for in this proposition. I listened in vain for some argument designed to show that what was considered a progressive, sensible and moderate suggestion, as indeed it had to be, coming from a Committee of that composition, has suddenly become a proposition of fire-eating radicals with a sinister connotation of the subversion of democracy. It is nothing of the kind. It is a rational sensible proposition designed to get a little more stability into a system of government which is becoming increasingly unstable. 
It is obvious- the point does not need labouring- that if we have an election every year, which seems to be the pattern our opponents are trying to establish, we do not achieve greater stability in government. We do not achieve the sort of attitude which one must expect from governments- that we can wait for the long term to show that we have been correct, even though we may have done something unpopular because, to paraphrase or to try to bring into the local context an oft quoted remark of the economist John Maynard Keynes, in the long run we are all dead. This is being paraphrased by our opponents: 'In the short run you will all be out of office if you attempt to do anything which may momentarily bring you into some sort of unpopularity with the electorate'. I suggest to those who argue that stability is achieved in some way by having more and more elections is to turn logic upside down. The argument that the electors decided the matter a short time ago by a majority of a quarter of a million, which is not an enormous majority considering the numbers who voted, and that that must put an end to the matter for all time is also a curious form of logic. 
The Opposition, to be consistent, must argue that because the electors said last May that they wanted a Labor government we should not be going to them again in the foreseeable future and asking them whether they have changed their minds. From everything that we have heard falling from the Opposition lately, this is the proposition they put in relation to who will be the government of this country. They say that the fact that the electors decided 9 months ago that they wanted a Labor government is a verdict which they are entitled to seek to have reversed at the drop of a hat and at any moment which suits them. Yet they deny us the right to say on a matter like this that, in the light of the instability which the electors of Australia have witnessed in the atmosphere of more and more frequent elections, sufficient numbers of them may have changed their minds to make the recommittal of this proposition to them a worthwhile exercise. Surely the Opposition gets bogged down in its own lack of logic here also. We believe that it is worthwhile asking the electors, in the light of the experience they have had since they last turned down this referendum, whether they are still of the same mind. There is nothing sinister, subversive or illogical in our attempt to ask them to change their minds on this matter. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I would have liked him to speak up on the matter. 
-Senator Wright is a man who manages to be vocal on matters of some triviality and I would have thought on this most important constitutional matter of the day we would have heard from him. I was also diverted by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's reference to the despised breed of ockers. The assumption behind his remarks was that his was the voice of enlightenment in a world of Philistines. I totally reject this phoney patrician slur on a man as cultivated as  Senator Button,  and it was in that context that he made his remarks. 
I would suggest to honourable senators that much more ludicrous than the ockers in our midst are the Neanderthal worshippers of the British connection among whom  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack staked his claim tonight.  His  is the old fashioned view of 'God Bless the Queen and all her relations and keep us in our proper stations'. Of course, all this sentimental talk tonight about appeals to the Privy Council was really a reflection of this old-fashioned corny view.  Senator Greenwood  expressed it in a little more sophisticated way than did  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. In fact, it might be said that his was music to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's Muzak. But all the same, when we come to have a good look at what  Senator Greenwood  had to say, it was really an expression of the most classical form of conservative politics. I am always pleased to see that grin on  Senator Greenwood  's face because it indicates that we are striking home; it is his form of recognising that he has not a leg to stand on. So let us look at the mealy mouthed proposition he put to the Senate tonight. He started off by saying that the Opposition accepts the general principle that the High Court should be the final court of appeal in Australia. From then on he proceeded to say why we should not do what he said we should do. In other words, 'We approve of what you are trying to achieve but we do not want it to happen'. This is the most old-fashioned and the most tedious form of conservatism of which  Senator Greenwood  is a practised exponent. He said that it is for the States in conjunction with the Commonwealth or the British Parliament to be the final arbiter on whether there should be appeals from the States to the Privy Council. 
In matters concerning the States.  Senator Everett,  as I will show, completely disposed of this hollow proposition that it is not the concern of the Commonwealth at all, that there should be another court outside this country which will be the final arbiter on matters which are supposed to be the concern only of the States.  Senator Greenwood  said that the power that we are seeking to abolish was conferred by an Imperial Parliament and should be abrogated presumably only by the States and the Imperial Parliament. Of course, I suggest that this is a disguised way of putting the lickspittle approach that I referred to earlier, of regarding the Imperial connection as something that lasts forever, a sort of grovelling attitude that somehow or other the mother country, as it used to be called, is the final arbiter in these matters. 
He said that there was a wealth of emotion attaching to appeals to the Privy Council and that to sever or denigrate the English connection was something which we should avoid, that the unilateral action which we are taking was repugnant to the States, and that somehow or other if we went ahead with this we would be insulting the mother country. By the way, it is an odd thing that we do not seem to hear anything from Britain itself or from the Privy Council abhorring or objecting to the proposition that we should cut the umbilical cord.  Senator Greenwood  said also that this is a proposition which cannot succeed. This sits oddly with his alleged reverence to the standing of the High Court. If there is some doubt as to the constitutional power of the Australian Parliament to pass this legislation and if  Senator Greenwood  holds the High Court in such reverence, why is he so reluctant to allow the High Court to decide this matter? Why is he so reluctant? I note that the frequent interjector appears to be lost for words when challenged on this point. 
I also found odd the devotion of  Senator Greenwood  and of the Opposition to the notion of a referendum on this matter. Only this afternoon when we were discussing the question of a referendum to decide another matter we found a lot of approbium poured on the idea that the Australian Parliament should be called upon to decide matters of constitutional importance. But on this issue  Senator Greenwood  found some great value in the notion that the Australian people should be called upon to decide this matter.  Senator Greenwood  complained that the Australian Government is bypassing the State governments with this proposal. The fact of the matter is that some of the State governments are attempting to bypass the High Court which  Senator Greenwood  constantly claims to hold in such reverence. For example, they are attempting to do this by endeavouring to persuade  Her  Majesty to refer matters for the advisory opinion of the Privy Council under an ancient statute of 1833. It does not matter how archaic this is.  Senator Greenwood  and those seeking for arguments on the other side find some virtue in an appeal under this archaic statute. I suggest that this is an insult to the High Court. What the Bill does is to make the High Court in all respects the final court of appeal for the whole of Australia and of all Australians. 

 Senator Greenwood is attempting to have a little bit each way in the argument that he puts to the Senate. On the one hand, he says that the Opposition agrees that the High Court should be the final court of appeal of Australia and, on the other hand, he wants to leave certain appeals to continue to lie to the Privy Council, despite his disclaimer to that effect. For instance, what does  Senator Greenwood  say about the attempts by Tasmania and Queensland to bypass the High Court? The Tasmanian and Queensland governments have tried to do so in connection with claims to the seabed, a matter which will now come before the High Court next month. Queensland also has subsequently sought to do the same thing in regard to an attempted redefining of the Queen's royal style and title to make her the Queen of Queensland. 
To rebuff the argument that we are intruding into matters of State concern that are not matters of Federal concern, I would refer  Senator Greenwood  above all else to the arguments that have been put by  Senator Everett.  The best argument is that the status of the High Court is a matter of concern to the Australian Government and the Parliament. It is the Australian Government and the Parliament that speak for Australia internationally. Australia's prestige before the world depends on this. It is the concern of this Government and the Parliament that disputes between Australian citizens should still be capable of being heard by a court of another country. It demeans Australia's standing before the world that there is an appeal from judges of a court of our own to a court constituted in another country. 
I am grateful to  Senator Wright  for that contribution. I take it that he is opposed to the jurisdiction of the International Court being accepted by this country. Of course, this is a totally phoney interjection. Does anybody here suggest that there should be an appeal from the High Court of Australia to the International Court? The jurisdiction of the International Court, as  Senator Wright  well knows, is confined to disputes between nations. But he and  Senator Greenwood  would allow jurisdiction to a foreign court, to a court of the mother country, if he wants to call it that, in matters concerning Australian citizens which should be of no concern to any other court. In short, I suggest that the proposition that it is of no concern to the Australian Government to care about the sorts of disputes that now go to the Privy Council is an acknowledgment that we are not really a sovereign state. It indicates a desire to cling to the coat tails of a country from which we claim to have achieved independence many  years ago. This is not to denigrate Great Britain. This is not to suggest that we do not owe anything to Great Britain. It is not to deny the common heritage that we have. I suggest that we can show our respect for the country to which we owe a great deal in our origins and in our traditions without in any way remaining lickspittles of that country. One way of remaining lickspittles is to try to preserve this absurd connection between our courts and the court of another country. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I will convey the honourable senator's request to the Attorney-General. 

I do not propose to join issue with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Greenwood)  as to the Opposition's general attitude towards appeals to the Privy Council. We thrashed that out yesterday when discussing the Privy Council Appeals Abolition Bill. I reiterate that it is the Government's aim to make the High Court the final court of appeal in all litigation in Australia. I content myself with expressing the Government's appreciation of the fact that the Opposition will not stand in the way of the passage of this Bill, which goes some of the way towards achieving the Government's goal in respect of the High Court. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I know that the honourable senator is watching very closely productive trends in the country, but he is not watching them so closely as to have noticed than an identical question was asked of me yesterday and that I gave a reply to it. In case he finds some difficulty in getting hold of yesterday's Hansard I will give him the gravamen of my statement of yesterday which was that the statistics for the month of January do show that there was a fall in production right across the board. This was due largely to seasonal factors, including the summer close down of factories and the effects of the New South Wales power dispute. I suggest that to assess the trend in production one would normally refer to the seasonally adjusted figures, but on this occasion they underestimate production because the introduction of 4 weeks annual leave changed the previous seasonal pattern of production. 
I conclude that while factory production fell off considerably in January- there is no doubt about that- one must await the February figures for an accurate indication of the trends. The Government has moved already, as  Senator Townley  undoubtedly would know, to restrain imports and to maintain production in more severely affected industries such as the textile and motor vehicle industries. I am unable to say whether there will be a further increase in unemployment. I hope that there will not be. I hope also that I did not detect any note in  Senator Townley  's voice indicating that he hoped there would be an increase in unemployment. 
I have heard such rumours. I do not know whether they are just rumours or whether there is substance in the claims. If there is any truth in such rumours I am sure honourable senators opposite would be as disturbed as they appear to be by the question. As suggested by the honourable senator I will ask my Department whether a survey can be conducted to discover whether there is any truth in such rumours and what is the explanation for such a condition if it exists. 
I did not see the newspaper article referred to by the honourable senator, although it is a fact that the effective operative date of the Trade Practices Act was 1 February 1975. 1 am not aware of the precise effect of the Act in the way that the honourable senator suggests. I shall look at it and let him have an answer in the near future. 
in reply- It is, of course, possible for lawyers to differ on the desirability of a Superior Court and to differ on grounds that have nothing to do with ideologies. I am quite sure that nothing that has anything to do with whether a person believes in the policy of the Labor Party in general or whether he believes in the policies of the Liberal Party will help him to make up his mind on whether we should have a 
Superior Court. If we are to reject this' proposition let it be on proper grounds and not on account of any of the red herrings that have been dragged across the trail this afternoon. 
I find it quite remarkable that the most formidable sounding argument, and an argument that has been reiterated by every  speaker  on the Opposition side, against this Bill never occurred to 5 successive Liberal Attorneys-General. That is the argument which I might call the danger that the Australian legal system will be infected with what I might call the American disease. I do not suppose anybody in this chamber would contest the proposition that  Sir Garfield  Barwick is probably the greatest lawyer that this country has produced. I have searched through everything that he has said on this matter, including a letter he wrote to another former Attorney-General,  Mr Hughes,  after he,  Sir Garfield,  had changed his mind about the desirability of a Superior Court. I have read it closely and I cannot find a word which suggests that one of his reasons was the alleged reason that has been kicked around this chamber- the possibility of the confusion and abuse of legal process which we know occurs in the United States of America. 
He gave what I think were several very honest and in some ways persuasive reasons. As I understand  Sir Garfield  Barwick and as I apprehend the reasons  Senator Greenwood  gave when he made his statement in 1972 announcing that the Government had dropped the idea of a Superior Court, the main reason of  Sir Garfield  Barwick and of  Senator Greenwood  was that another solution was available. Back in the time when the proposition of a Superior Court was dear to the hearts of Liberal lawyers- do not forget that it originated from them- the most obviously persuasive reason which they had was that the High Court was overloaded with the work in its original jurisdiction, that a backlog was developing and that the Court's reputation for promptness and the Court's preoccupation with its great task of interpreting the Constitution was in some way downgraded by its concern with what were thought to be lesser matters- taxation matters, matters involving patents and that sort of thing. It was thought that to have the High Court free of this work would make it a better, less overloaded and more efficient court. 
When the Liberal lawyers changed their minds it was because they thought they had come up with a simpler and better solution, and that was to divest the High Court of much of its lesser work, its original jurisdiction work, especially tax work. As the letter from  Sir Garfield  Barwick shows, he believed that this was a solution and that the High Court would not be overloaded and therefore there was no need to introduce the concept of a Superior Court. But nowhere in the pronouncements of  Sir Garfield  Barwick, another fine lawyer in the person of  Mr Nigel  Bowen, another lesser lawyer m the person of  Mr Snedden  who was for a while AttorneyGeneral, another fine lawyer,  Mr Tom  Hughes, and with respect  Senator Greenwood  himself, can I find this greater in terrorem argument that we would be courting the problems that have bedevilled the American system. 
I think there is a very good reason why we do not find that argument advanced in any of their pronouncements and that is that the problem that exists in the United States does not exist here. If we get a Superior Court exercising Federal jurisdiction concurrently with the State courts we have a quite different situation from that in the United States. It was touched on, although he did not draw all the inferences from it, by  Senator Missen  when he admitted that the State courts in the United States are not invested with federal jurisdiction; so each branch of the law in the United States is administering a different corpus of law and often there is conflict between those laws and there is a possibility for litigants to jump from one system of law to the other and make ducks and drakes of the legal system in the United States. 
-They will not be able to do that. I have not heard any example given to us of how this can happen. I will give an example of that type of evil in Australia with which lawyers in Australia are familiar. I would invite honourable senators opposite to show me how the sort of situation to which I am about to refer would occur in Australia. This situation illustrates the American evil in our own system. I invite the lawyers opposite to tell me how this situation could arise here throughout our legal system if we had a Superior Court exercising Federal jurisdiction alongside State Supreme Courts also invested with Federal jurisdiction. I refer, and I apologise for doing so, to the well known problem in our country which has come to be known as the Moore and Doyle problem. Here is a case in industrial law in Australia where there is a long standing, crying evil due to the fact that we have an equivalent of the American system, that is, 2 different competing systems of law based on different constitutional powers being exercised by State courts and by Federal courts. 
As all honourable senators know the Moore v. Doyle case was a case which occurred towards the end of 1968. Judgment was given early in 1969. lt was a case involving the Transport Workers Union. I apologise for referring to it again, but I have a particular familiarity with this case because I was involved in it representing one of the litigants and I had been involved in long years of litigation in this union - 
-Let me illustrate. I believe this is instructive and I ask for your attention. There was a long drawn out faction fight in this trade union, as we know there is every day in many major unions. This was a union which suffered from the dichotomy from which all unions in this country, except purely State unions, suffer. It owed its legal existence to registration under dual systems of law. There was a branch of the federal organisation, to use the word of the Federal Act, in New South Wales and there was also in New South Wales a trade union registered under the State Act. It had the same people in it except for a few, about whom the contest was, who were deemed employees under the State legislation and therefore unable to belong to the Federal organisation. I will not go into the intricacies of that, but every member of the Transport Workers Union in New South Wales believed that he belonged to one legal body; but in law he did not. He belonged to 2 separate legal entities- the State trade union and the branch of the Federal organisation. They had the same set of union officials who purported to be the officials of each separate body but who in law were not. One faction was very cleverly advised, as it so happens by  Mr Justice  Murphy, as he now is, of the possibilities involved in this dual identity. One set of union officials for which  Mr Justice  Murphy, who was then  Mr Murphy,  Q.C., acted was defeated in a trade union ballot. As far as the members were concerned it was just a ballot for the officials of their union. It was one undifferentiated body as far as they were concerned. 
The clients for whom I acted won the election and the man who had been elected in this ballot as secretary of the union turned up in the union office to occupy his office and was told by the defeated secretary: 'Yes, you can have a seat over there in that corner of the office. You can stay there as long as you like, but of course you do not draw any pay. The assets belong to the trade union registered in New South Wales, of which I am still the secretary because there was not an election for that position but only for the position of secretary of the branch of the federal organisation. You go ahead. Go for your life. You are the secretary of that: organisation but I have the assets and I have the members and I will continue as before '. This was said by a man who had just been defeated in a ballot by my client. That contest dragged on and on for a period of 6 years until my client finally prevailed and became the secretary. The intricacies of that struggle were such that I will not attempt to go into them but it was an example. By the way, there were about twenty or thirty legal cases about ownership of the property and about a whole host of things during the intervening 6 years. This astute secretary of the union jumped from one jurisdiction to the other and even though his members did not want him, even though he lost case after case- I was winning all the battles and losing the war for my client- he remained in office to the great disgruntlement of his members and to the great damage of the union and the industry. 
This is the sort of thing that happens in the United States all the time because there are competing Federal and State jurisdictions in the same fields of human activity, especially in the criminal law. The evils of the American system do not arise from anything like we are envisaging under this proposal to set up a superior court but from the fact that they are competing jurisdictions exercising and administering different systems of law. It is a false analogy, a false terror, that has been aroused in our hearts today and I claim that that is proved and reinforced by the fact that- I invite the lawyers opposite to look at the record- none of their predecessors who were concerned with this problem saw this point as a deterrent or as a reason why we should not have a superior court. 
When the idea of a superior court was abandoned finally it was on the ground that the problem could be solved in another way. That is a proposition which has its merits. If we vote on this matter and we are defeated because honourable senators honestly decide, after looking at the matter, that the problem which the superior court idea was designed to solve has been solved in another way, so be it. But if this matter is going to be decided on the ground of the phoney danger of the American disease infecting the body of our law in Australia, that will be a false basis on which to decide the issue. 
Leaving that matter aside, I would like to advert to some of the other matters that have been raised in this debate. I suggest that we examine the arguments advanced from time to time by the eminent lawyers to whom I have referred. I do not say that in any hypocritical way. I admit that lawyers of a different political persuasion to myself have espoused this Bill in the past and have changed their minds. I do not criticise them for having done so. I suggest that an examination of the reasons they gave in the past for support for the Superior Court Bill shows that those reasons still stand. I find it quite outrageous that  Senator Wright,  for instance, with characteristic hyperbole, should suggest that there is something absurd, to use his words, about this suggestion, that it is a major mistake bordering on a blunder and that the superior court idea is a monster. I suggest that to use that language about an idea which originated from distinguished lawyers on his own side does no service to elucidating the problems we are discussing today. Somehow or other he found it monstrous that we are proposing a court that will be divided into divisions. I assume he knows that there are divisions in the State courts. In New South Wales we have an equity division, a commercial causes division, a common law division, a court of criminal appeal and an appeals court all embraced within the one supreme court of New South Wales. 
-Nothing that  Senator Wright  says by way of interjection alters the fact that there is nothing monstrous in the notion of a court divided into divisions. 
I will deal with that especially. I understand  Senator Missen's  interest in the family court aspect of this problem and I will deal with it before I finish my speech. If  Senator Wright's  strictures on the idea of the superior court have any weight at all they apply equally to all the suggestions that have emanated from the distinguished lawyers on his side of politics whom I have mentioned because no matter what  Senator Greenwood  may say about the detailed differences between this Bill and the Bill introduced by  Mr Nigel  Bowen in 1968, the spirit and idea of the Bill are exactly the same. No comfort is to be had from the notion that a change of mind is justified because of differences in this Bill as against the other Bill. In principle this Bill is the Bill which once appealed to  Sir Garfield  Barwick,  Mr Nigel  Bower,  Mr Snedden, Mr Hughes,  and presumably at some stage to  Senator Greenwood. 
-Very well, I accept that statement. I may say that unliike  Senator Wright  I see nothing monstrous and nothing outrageous in the proposition advanced from the Opposition side that there are better ways of handling our problems than by creating a superior court. 
-Senator Wright insists on keeping the debate on the level of monstrousness. I have attempted to present it in a more balanced light and to suggest that if we are to make up our minds against this Bill we should do it for proper reasons and not for sensational, extravagant, exaggerated or hyperbolic reasons. I suggest therefore that we leave the American disease out of our consideration. 
When introducing the Bill originally the then Attorney-General,  Mr Bowen,  said that a superior court would relieve and forestall pressures on the existing arrangements for the exercise of the Federal jurisdiction. Later it was decided that these pressures had been removed. But, as introduced by the then  Senator Murphy,  there were other reasons given for the desirability of a superior court than the reason of easing the burden of the High Court of Australia. It was pointed out- I think events since then have borne it out- that a new world of Federal law was opening up and that it could be expected to expand. We have seen the Trade Practices Act and we now have under debate in this Parliament the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill. It is contemplated that there will be introduced either by a Labor government or a government from the other side of politics propositions for new departures in the world of administrative law to deal with appeals from decisions of public servants and people in power in society. I see this as one of the expanding fields of law in this country. It will be Federal law and ultimately there will have to be a tribunal which will be the court of appeal. The ultimate court of appeal is the High Court. There will have to be a court before the High Court to deal with matters in the way that the Industrial Court does today, quite artificially in the light of its name and function, in regard to matters relating to the Broadcasting and Television Act or the Trade Practices Act. 
There is a growing body of Federal law in this country and I believe it is desirable that there should be a court throughout the country short of the High Court which will administer and interpret this law in a uniform manner rather than have it divided by having jurisdiction vested in State courts all over the country coming up with confusing, conflicting and perhaps contradictory interpretations of that law. This was one of the things which  Senator Murphy,  as he then was, relied on most heavily as a justification for the need for a superior court. It was not just a matter of relieving the pressure on the High Court. If we admit that that pressure has largely been removed by, for instance, vesting taxation jurisdiction in the State courts, the reason advanced by  Senator Murphy-  that is, the desirability of a uniform interpretation of Federal law- in my view still remains as a persuasive reason for supporting the setting up of a superior court. 
I have been invited by  Senator Greenwood  to explain what he calls our bullheadedness in persisting with this legislation when, as he says, the lawyers of Australia are almost universally against it. To start off with, I point out that the lawyers of Australia are not almost universally against it. I know many lawyers, whose opinions I respect, who are still in favour of the scheme. I must confess that the established legal bodies in this country have swung around in opposition to the Bill. But that does not bear too heavily on my continuing to support it. I have come to know that lawyers are a fickle, conservative and very easily influenced lot, and a very powerful lobby. One of the most powerful lobbies in the country has been at work over the last couple of years to change lawyers' minds about this matter. I refer to the judges 'lobby. I have been lobbied by very persuasive and intelligent State judges who for obvious reasons I will not name. I am not suggesting for a moment that there is anything improper about judges lobbying on matters which they think are important to our legal system. 
Let us not be unreal enough to think that judges are completely immune from politics, that they do not attempt to ensure that a system of justice, as they see it, is perpetuated and that they do not resist change which they think involves some territorial encroachment. I do not think it is altogether without some significance that the opinions of Chief Justice Barwick are slightly different from the opinions of Attorney-General Barwick. Chief Justice Barwick has territory to defend just as judges of the State supreme courts have territory to defend. I am not imputing any dishonesty to them. I am suggesting that they have reached their conclusions about this Bill for reasons which are not unmixed with notions of maintaining their own status and position in the world. Their opinions fan out into the legal profession. 
A very persuasive and very loftily placed judge cornered me one night and gave me a lot of the arguments which I have heard, strangely, repeated in this chamber today and by conservative lawyers all over the country. I repeat that, in saying that, I do not impute any bad motives to anybody who suggests that we should not have a superior court. I freely acknowledge that it is an arguable proposition. I ask nothing more than that it be decided on proper grounds and not on false grounds. Finally I advert to the question raised by  Senator Missen  who sees something rather extraordinary about the timing of this debate. He says, truthfully, that the Superior Court Bill has been on the notice paper for about 6 months. He asks why it is being debated now, especially as the Family Law Bill which cuts across some of the terms of the Superior Court Bill is being debated at this moment. 
When  Senator Murphy  was here he frequently urged me to support him in having the Superior Court Bill moved up the notice paper and debated straight away. Whatever honourable senators opposite may think of the way the Australian Labor Party works, I point out that although  Senator Murphy  was Leader and Attorney-General he did not throw his weight around in order to have the Bill debated. He wanted it debated but he discussed it with his fellows. I constantly urged him not to have the Superior Court Bill debated while the Family Law Bill was still in abeyance, and for much the same reasons as those advanced by  Senator Missen.  The concept of a family court which the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs came up with I believed should be decided upon before we proceed with the Superior Court Bill. That was the reason. There was nothing sinister in the Superior Court Bill being pushed down the notice paper instead of being debated, but I firmly believe that this situation has changed. 
I am still hopeful that the Family Law Bill will be passed but I am by no means certain that it will be passed. Not only that but also I believe it will take a long while before it emerges from the other place. When it does emerge, even if it is in some sort of shape to be worth nurturing and preserving, it will come back here with proposed amendments. If it ever becomes law it will not be tomorrow- it will be some time in the future. I believe that the need for deferring indefinitely the debate on the Superior Court Bill has disappeared. I believe that if the superior court is a worthwhile proposition it is worth carrying this 
Bill now and amending it later, in the event that the Family Law Bill is carried, in the light of amendments which will be necessary when the Family Law Bill is carried. 
I have attemptedhonestly to give  Senator Missen  an explanation as to why this Bill is being debated now and why it was not debated in the past. That is a true explanation, according to my lights, of why the Bill was not debated in the past and why it is being debated now. I think that is about all I can usefully say in reply to what has been put in this debate. I do not think there is any point in regurgitating the conflicting statements about this Bill which have been made over the years from the Liberal side of politics. Unlike many people's notions of the attitudes of lawyers, I believe that politicians are entitled to change their minds. If they change their minds they should not be dogged by the fact that they once held a different opinion. I do not hold it against the Liberal side of politics that today they are espousing an attitude towards this Bill which is different from the attitude they espoused when they pioneered a similar Bill in the past. I think that is irrelevant. The only question with which we should be concerned is whether today this idea of a superior court serves the needs of society as it is now and as it is emerging. I believe that it does. For those reasons I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I have seen the item referred to by the honourable senator. I find it an odd suggestion that any government or any Minister of any government should be able to anticipate exactly what factories will be sacking people at any given moment. 
-Nobody has informed me of this. 
I will be having discussions with the union later today. 
-Despite what anybody may say the Government has never maintained that tariff changes have not caused unemployment. I certainly do not so assert. 
I had discussions yesterday with a delegation consisting of executives of the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd and representatives of the various unions which are under threat of having some of their members dismissed in the immediate future. The main problem at Electrolytic Zinc is that there has been a downturn in the export market for zinc and a downturn in the Australian market for zinc and superphosphate. The company estimates that if production continues at the present rate it will be stockpiling zinc at an unacceptable level. Hence it was proposed that approximately 400 members of the workforce at Electrolytic Zinc should be dismissed in the near future. We had long discussions yesterday which are to be resumed this morning immediately after question time. I am hopeful that some arrangement will be made which will prevent a loss of work to the men involved. 
I was not aware of such an arrangement, but it strikes me as being a very good one. If it has broken down, I will do what I can to persuade the AttorneyGeneral that the practice should be renewed. 
-On 10 July 1974  Senator Laucke  asked me the following question: 
I direct a question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. It follows on questions asked earlier in respect of the retrenchments of employees at the Hendon works of Philips Industries in Adelaide. Has the Minister seen a very forthright statement made by the  Chairman  of Philips Industries yesterday that these retrenchments were due directly to tariff cuts introduced by the Government? In view of the extreme urgency of this matter will the Government take immediate action to give the necessary protection to this industry which is vitally important to our State and to the nation? 
I should like to add the following information to that given in the initial answer to the question: 
As a result of discussions between Philips Industries, the South Australian Government and officers of my Department, Philips have agreed to re-assess the situation and have limited the number of retrenchments in the short term. Information is being examined to ascertain whether any assistance may be available to the company under the interim subsidy scheme for the production of selected electroniccomponents in Australia. This matter is expected to be finalised in the near future. 
It is emphasised that it is open to the company and any affected employees to make applications for assistance under the Government's Structural Adjustment Assistance Scheme. 
-On 10 July 1974  Senator Jessop  asked me the following question: 
I direct to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry a question along similar lines to those which were asked previously by  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Drake-Brockman.  I refer to a statement made today by the Managing Director of Philips Industries Ltd. Has the Minister noted this statement which suggests that the company is considering the retrenchment of employees at its manufacturing plant at Hendon, South Australia? Has he noted the suggestion that some 200 employees will be retrenched very shortly and that by the end of next year it is quite likely that this factory will have to be closed? 1 want to know what the Government is doing about this specific area of difficulty because it is of great significance to South Australia. I believe that if this factory does close it could well herald the end of the electronics industry in Australia. 
I should like to provide the following information in answer to the question: 
As a result of discussions between Philips Industries, the South Australian Government and officers of my Department, Philips have agreed to re-assess the situation and have limited the number of retrenchments in the short term. Information is being examined to ascertain whether any assistance may bc available to the company under the interim subsidy scheme for the production of selected electronic components in Australia. This matter is expected to be finalised in the near future. lt is emphasised that it is open to the company and any affected employees to make applications for assistance under the Government's Structural Adjustment Assistance Scheme. 
Retrenchments in Electronics Industry 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
to (3) In July 1974 the Government reconvened a Committee of Inquiry to examine the possibility of additional workload for the Government factories, including the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow. The Committee has submitted its final report, which is under consideration. In relation to the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow, the Committee found- and it took into account the winding down of the 7.62mm rifle project- that the volume of non-defence work being attracted should avoid a surplus staff situation arising over the next twelve months. Workload prospects beyond that time are being actively pursued. 
Retrenchments in Electronics Industry 
In reply to the last part of the honourable senator's question, the scheme for assistance to nonmetropolitan areas by definition does not apply to metropolitan areas, and Perth is a metropolitan area. However, the Government has been examining the limitations of this scheme and has been considering whether it should be extended in certain instances to areas such as Perth or Hobart. On the general question of the plight of the textile industry, I would like to draw attention to the fact that yesterday a recommendation was considered from the Textiles Authority, an arm of the CIA- I should say the IAC, the Industries Assistance Commission. I now live in a world of acronyms and I cannot be expected always to remember which is the appropriate one. The recommendation of the Textiles Authority was considered by Cabinet and a decision was reached which will be announced today by the Special Minister of State. I think it will give a lot of comfort to all sections of the textile industry. 
-The Toyota company has recently announced in Tokyo a proposal to manufacture vehicles in Australia. The plan involves the manufacture of 140 000 cars a year by 1980, which would be about 15 per cent of the estimated market for new cars in that year. According to what I have read- and my information is based only on what I have read in the newspapers- the production would take place in Toyota's own plant in Melbourne, possibly using some engine parts to be made jointly with other companies- Chrysler and Nissan- in Adelaide. There have also been Press reports of similar proposals by the Nissan motor company. Government policy is to encourage the entry of Nissan and /or Toyota into manufacture in Australia on the basis of some kind of joint venture which would preserve the employment base in the South Australian automotive industry and utilise surplus capacity in the Chrysler foundry and engine plant. Both 
Nissan and Toyota have been investigating this possibility. In fact,  Mr Zaitsu,  a leading executive of the Nissan company, discussed the matter with me on 19 February.  Mr Tamura,  Toyota's director of export and overseas operations, is visiting Australia this week and also has an appointment to see me. I assume that he probably wishes to discuss his company's plans. 
The announcement of tentative plans by both Toyota and Nissan to commence local production has raised questions as to how the small Australian market can be supplied economically with an increased rather than a reduced number of manufacturers. The entry of Japanese companies would be compatible with the Government's objectives of product rationalisation and improved resource allocation, provided their operations involve the use of existing under-utilised facilities for the production of components, particularly engines. The Japanese companies are well aware that any proposals for entry into local manufacture will be carefully assessed against the Government's objectives for the industry, including the desirability of some form of Australian Government participation. Recent Press speculation must therefore be treated with considerable caution as it is based only on tentative proposals that have not yet been fully discussed with the Australian Government. 
-No. Even though I belong to a Party which reads the most obscure journals in Australia I have not had my attention directed to the particular article to which the honourable senator referred. However, I am well aware that there is a feeling in the country at the present time that manufacturing industry is in a bad state. I am aware also that of the large drop in employment throughout industry in 1974 by far the majority of persons unemployed- or may I say disemployed- were in the sphere of manufacturing industry. The Government is fully aware of this problem and has taken a series of steps, which I have detailed on several occasions, to stimulate the private sector of the economy, including manufacturing industry. 
In answer to the question asked earlier by  Senator Drake-Brockman  concerning the textile industry. I indicate that an announcement will be made today of certain steps that have been taken to stimulate the textile industry. It is well known that a few months ago the Government took steps in relation to the motor car industry which are having the effect of rapidly clearing the stocks which were causing dire predictions about the future of the motor car industry. From reports I have had in recent days from the leaders of the automobile industry, I am able to say that the immediate prospect is good and stocks are being rapidly cleared. Even though of course, I would be taking an absurd position if I suggested that all was well with manufacturing industry, I am confident that the steps the Government has taken are bearing fruit and that we will rapidly see a revival in manufacturing industry. It is not true to say that it is a disaster area as seemed to be suggested in the article to which the honourable senator referred. 
-We have our authorities on this side of the House on the kangaroo question, notably my colleague  Senator Mulvihill.  Also may I mention my colleague the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation who, in his spare time, has recently undertaken a postgraduate course in all problems affecting the kangaroo. However, I am attempting to find out a little more about the subject. If there has been any discrimination against Western Australia in this matter I will attempt to find the explanation thereof and will let the honourable senator have a reply as quickly as possible. 
-My attention had not been drawn to the article in question until a moment ago; so I am unable to comment on its contents. If the honourable senator will give me a copy of the article to which he referred, I will inquire into its allegations and let him have an early reply. 

 - Mr President, I fake it that your ruling would not exclude a comment by me on my experience when there was a Joint Sitting of the Parliament because the only experiences that I have of the manners and mores of the other place are those which I picked up on the occasion when we were sitting together there last year. I must confess that I was a little shocked to find how much below the level of civilised behaviour that we have become accustomed to in this decorous place was the conduct that appeared to be the norm in the other place. But I must say that I detected that most of the larrikinism- indeed, it might almost have been called hooliganism- appeared to come from members of the Australian Country Party. I noticed that when I was giving my usual moderate, sensible and quiet contribution I was greeted by uninterrupted heckling. In fact, if 1 had not been a regular attender at a sporting game known to my colleague,  Senator McAuliffe,  where a person has to become used to protecting himself, I would have become quite alarmed for my physical safety. In fact, it would nol have surprised me at one stage if a beer can had been hurled from the other side of the chamber. I suggest to the honourable senator that most of the members in the other place have become accustomed over the years to knowing that they have to go there with their guard up and expect almost anything. They are probably well qualified to defend themselves. 
-Following the question which was directed to me by the honourable senator I conveyed his request to the Attorney-General and have not yet received a  reply. However, 1 will convey to the AttorneyGeneral again the honourable senator's anxiety in the matter and see whether I can expedite a reply. 
Yes,  I  will convey the honourable senator's request to my colleague the Minister for Science. 
I will be pleased to convey that request to the Minister for Science. 
I seek leave to move together 2 amendments and a request for an amendment which have been circulated. 
I am grateful to  Senator Drake-Brockman  for adding a new term to my rapidly growing lexiconsleepwear. It is a very nice term. I am unaware that any immediate relief is to be given to sleepwearers, but I will make inquiries and let the honourable senator know. I am aware that there are still areas of distress in the textile industry. Among other things that I am at present considering is some relief for the knitwear section of the industry. I will make a full inquiry into the matters raised by the honourable senator and let him have an early answer. 
I can assure  Senator Greenwood,  who took the point of order, that I do not propose to give a legal opinion. I have read the editorial in yesterday's Australian Financial Review' and I have read the reply to it from the  Chairman  of the Trade Practices Commission,  Mr R.  M. Bannerman, which appears in today's issue of the 'Australian Financial Review'. The point raised in yesterday's editorial was that section 162E of the Trade Practices Act could be construed as placing in contempt of court commentators commenting on actions of the Trade Practices Tribunal in giving temporary authorisations to persons who were alleged to be engaging in restrictive trade practices. The reply arose out of a couple of articles which appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review' commenting on authorisations which had been given in respect of life officers and insurance brokers. Of course, if that were the effect of the section of the Act referred to it would be a most undesirable result and definitely counter to what was the intention of the Government in introducing the Trade Practices 
Act. I have had a look at the section. As I. have said, I will be careful not to breach Standing Orders by giving my opinion as to the effect of section 162. 1 think this is a matter which should be put beyond doubt. I do not think that  Mr Bannerman's  comment this morning puts the issue beyond doubt. As I have said, I think it would be most undesirable if the mere grant of a temporary authorisation while the matter was being more fully considered by the Commission inhibited public debate on the subject of the temporary authorisation. Therefore we intend to draw this matter to the attention of the AttorneyGeneral and to ask him whether the Act needs amendment in order to put the intention of section 162E beyond all doubt. 
For the information of honourable senators I present volume one of the report of the Advisory Committee on Antarctic Programs, dated December 1974, and a discussion paper entitled 'Towards New bperspectives for Australian Scientific Research in Antarctica '. 
In reply- I think everything has been said that needs to be said about this Bill. Without wishing for one moment to derogate from the efforts made by my colleagues to have the original Bill amended, I should just like to make the short point that the original Bill was conceived in an atmosphere of Simon-Pure economic rationality and instructions for its drafting were prepared as long ago as February 1974. The Government faces the fact that March 1975 is very different from February 1974, and in an atmosphere of large scale unemployment Simon-Pure economic rationality has to be diluted by human considerations. It is as simple as that. 
I have circulated amendments which have the aim of spreading the bounty beyond the place where it would originally have fallen, that is, beyond merely the major manufacturers of compressors, James N. Kirby Pty Ltd, so that it reaches others such as Email Ltd in the town of Orange in New South Wales and Kelvinator Australia Ltd in the city of Adelaide. We, of course, have been subjected to a great deal of lobbying on this matter not only of the sort that has been referred to by previous speakers but also from management and trade unions pointing out that if something were not done to spread this bounty it would drive employers smaller than James N. Kirby to the wall resulting in an increase in unemployment and in a loss of human and physical resources. For that reason  the Government has faced what it considers the inevitable in this situation and the amendments to which I shall refer in greater detail in the Committee stage are based squarely on those considerations. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I appreciate the reasonable attitude taken by  Senator Drake-Brockman  especially in view of the long period that has elapsed since the consideration of this Bill was adjourned on the application of the then  Senator Murphy  who was then Attorney-General and had the carriage of the Bill. I shall outline what has transpired since then. The reason the then  Senator Murphy  sought the adjournment of this matter was that he had become convinced that the Bill should be. amended so that the bounty could be paid in respect of books produced by the Australian Government Printer or State government printers. In fact he made a recommendation to that effect to Cabinet. When the matter was opened up to that extent it was also suggested, as has been put by  Senator DrakeBrockman  today, that the criterion of entitlement to the bounty should be amended to make certain legal publications eligible for the bounty. The matter was then submitted to a committee which is known by the abbreviation SIDCAI, which are the initials for the Special InterDepartmental Committee on Assistance to 
Industry. This Committee considered whether the bounty should be extended to Government Printers, legal publications, loose-leaf additional pages and workshop manuals. 
It met and submitted a draft report to Cabinet on 12 February 1975. It made certain recommendations. This report is before Cabinet but has not yet been considered by Cabinet. One of the recommendations of SIDCAI was that the current Bill be proceeded with immediately. The reason is that the Bill authorises payment of an increased rate of bounty, from 2 5 per cent to 3 3 V4 percent, from 17 December 1973. That has been frozen because the Bill has not been passed. The industry has to a large extent carried the additional financial commitment. So it was thought by SIDCAI and by the Government that pending consideration of these proposed amendments the Bill should be carried in its present form. I am prepared to give an undertaking that if the Senate passes the Bill in its present form amendments to the Bill will be introduced as soon as Cabinet has had an opportunity to consider the SIDCAI report. If these amendments, which will be introduced by the Government, do not satisfy the Opposition's wishes, it will have an opportunity to move any further amendments which may commend themselves to it. 
The Government does not accept  Senator Wright's  amendment for what seem to me to be very obvious reasons. If we accepted the amendment it would have the effect that a Philistine government or a government completely out of touch with the cultural and moral standards of the community- I instance the case of the Premier of Queensland- in fact could pass laws which would make it impossible to pay bounties. Such a government might even set out deliberately to achieve such an end. It is not beyond belief that a man of the primitive outlook of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  - 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Webster)Order!  I do not think the honourable senator should reflect on the Premier of Queensland and I ask him to withdraw the remark. 
I withdraw the remark. It is not unknown in this community that there are people so out of touch with the standards and tastes of the community at large that they might even believe that the payment of a book bounty is in itself something evil. 
For that reason the Government does not accept  Senator Wright's  amendment. Referring to the other question raised by him relating to the basis of bounty which might be extended to legal publications, I do not know the contents of the report put in by the Committee to Cabinet. All I know is that it recommends some amendments to alter the criteria for the payment of bounty. I have not read the report and I do not know the Committee's recommendations. Therefore I cannot give  Senator Wright  an answer as to the basis on which any of the Committee's recommendations are made. 
I understood from my conversations with  Senator Drake-Brockman,  who has the carriage of this Bill for the Opposition, that the Opposition's objections were limited to a desire to have the bounty extended to extra categories of books. I have given an undertaking that amendments will be introduced by the Government. If those amendments do not satisfy the Opposition it will have the opportunity of moving further amendments. That situation applies to the objection taken by  Senator Milliner.  If, when the matter is being considered again- I anticipate that this will be in the very near future- he believes that the problem is of such complexity that it should be referred, for example, to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, it would be quite open to him or to any other honourable senator so to recommend. If that proposition commended itself to the Senate there would be an opportunity for a committee of that nature to consider the matters he raised. 
I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
The message received from His Excellency the Administrator was sent to the House of Representatives on the advice of the Government. It invokes a procedure under section 58 of the Constitution that has been used only on rare occasions. We are straying into a rarely frequented byway tonight. Section 58 of the Constitution provides, amongst other things, that when a proposed law passed by both Houses of the Parliament is presented to the GovernorGeneral for the Queen 's assent he may return the proposed law to the House in which it originated and may transmit therewith any amendment which he may recommend and the House may deal with the recommendation. This procedure affords a method of correcting minor errors that may be found in a Bill after it has been passed by both Houses and before it has been assented to. The Administrator's message on this occasion deals with such a minor error that has been discovered in the Privy Council (Appeals from the High Court) Bill 1975. The error consists of the omission of the indefinite article 'a' before the word 'court' in clause 3 of the Bill. In spite of the minor nature of the error the Government considers that, in view of the constitutional significance of the Bill, it is important that it should express exactly the intention of the Government. I therefore recommend the amendment to the Senate. 
By way of explanation I point out that clause 3 of the Bill will prevent the asking of special leave to appeal to the Privy Council from certain decisions of the High Court. Broadly speaking these are decisions in matters of State law. However, the concluding words of the clause are intended to exempt from its operation any decision of the High Court which was given in a proceeding which was commenced in a State court before the date of commencement of the Act. The clause as passed by both Houses refers to a proceeding which was 'commenced in court' before that date. The reference should be to a proceeding which was 'commenced in a court' before that date. This may seem a pettifogging matter but lawyers are accustomed to the fact that great litigation can turn on the omission or the inclusion of one word. The expression used in the Bill as passed is thought to be somewhat uncertain in its meaning. It could be read as referring to the commencement of the appeal proceeding in the High Court whereas it is intended to refer to the commencement of the original proceeding in a court of a State. Another possible reading of the expression in the Bill is that it refers to the commencement of the hearing of a proceeding whereas the intention is to refer to the commencement of the proceeding by the writ or other originating process. I add that the amendment now proposed will bring the clause into line with a similar provision in section 3 sub-item (2) of the Privy Council (Limitation of Appeals) Act 1968. For these reasons I recommend the amendment to the House. 
I was asked another question concerning that subject matter yesterday, which I have referred to the Minister for Science. I will also refer the question asked by  Senator Young  to the Minister for Science and let  Senator Young  have an answer to it. 
I understand that the Bill has been circulated. 
I will give the honourable senator a copy now. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
It is curious to find such a staunch advocate of the virtues of competition as  Senator Carrick  bewailing the fact that a policy of this Government might increase competition in the motor car industry. However, the short answer to his question is that the Government has not yet taken any decision at all about the manufacture of Japanese cars in Australia, and I do not feel disposed to discuss the matter until a decision has been taken. 
I am aware that in certain quarters there is an objection, amounting almost to a campaign, against the implementation of metric conversion. I must confess that I, having such difficulty as I have in converting to the metric measures, sometimes wonder whether it will not make life a little too difficult, especially for people in my age bracket. Its cost effects, especially in a period such as the present, also merit some examination. I see some merit in the suggestions that have been put by the honourable senator. I will convey them to the Minister for Science and in due course let the honourable senator have a reply. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
1 ) The members of the National Literature Board are: 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
1 ) The members of the Film Censorship Board are as follows: 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
1 ) The members of the Films Board of Review are: 
MrS. G. Hawes, M.B.E.,  Chairman 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
1 ) to ( 4) See answer to Senate Question No. 29. 
Complaint to Police about Publication (Question No. 351) 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
I ) to (4) See answer to Senate Question No. 24. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable Senator's question: 
No. 
and (3) Do noi arise. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
Does not arise. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable  Senator 's  question: 
1) and (3). There is nothing to add to the answer given on 8 November 1973. 
No. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answers to the honourable senator 's questions: 
and (2) The Extradition (Foreign States) Act 1966 came into operation on 1 October 1967. Between that day and 26 February 1975 there were 6 requests for extradition made by Australia of the foreign states with which Australia has an extradition treaty. The requests were made of Paraguay, Spain, United States of America and Peru. 
In addition requests have been made in Brazil in respect of 3 persons. There is no extradition treaty between Australia and Brazil. However, the law of Brazil provides for extradition without a treaty on a basis of reciprocity. The requests to Brazil were made following the amendment of the Extradition (Foreign States) Act No. 2 1 of 1974. 
As a result of the requests 2 persons have been surrendered to Australia. Proceedings are pending in a further 5 cases. 
The 2 persons referred to in (3) above were extradited from the following countries: 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
1 ) The Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Act 1966 came into operation on 1 May 1967. Between that day and 26 February 1975 there were 23 requests for extradition made by Australia to Commonwealth countries. 
The requests were made of the United Kingdom, Canada, Singapore and Hong Kong. 
As a result of the requests15 persons have been surrendered to Australia. 
Those persons were extradited from the following countries: 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to  Senator Greenwood  's questions: 
1 ) Yes, as an adviser. 
From 9 January 1973. 
$7,500 annually. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
1 ) to (4) See answer to Senate Question No. 26. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No arrangements have yet been made. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
1 ) to (4) See answer to Senate Question No. 25. 
I think the question properly falls within my province as Minister for Manufacturing Industry. In the first place, with regard to retrenchments by General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd, the Government and the Department of Manufacturing Industry are in constant contact with all the major automobile companies. There is no indication that any retrenchments are contemplated by General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd or by any of the other automobile companies. As to the possible extension of sales tax cuts, the Government does not have under consideration any proposal to extend the period of reduction in sales tax on passenger and commercial vehicles. As announced on 28 January, the levels of sales tax will begin to move back to their former level on 1 May. The restoration will be in 5 equal monthly steps so that the rates will return to their original level on 1 September. 
Pursuant to section 23 (3) of the Australian Capital Territory Legal Aid Ordinance 1972 I present the annual report of the Australian Capital Territory Legal Aid Committee for the year ended 30 June 1973, together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
1 ) The Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Act 1 966 came into operation on 1 May 1967. Between that day and 26 February 1975 there were 28 requests for extradition made of Australia by Commonwealth countries. 
The requests were made by the United Kingdom, Canada, Singapore and Hong Kong. 
As a result of those requests 1 5 persons have been surrendered. 
Those persons were surrendered to the following countries: 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
The Extradition (Foreign States) Act 1966 came into operation on 1 October 1967. Between that day and 26 February 1975 there were 15 requests for extradition made of Australia by foreign states with which Australia has an extradition treaty. 
The requests were made by Italy, Greece, France, Norway, Spain, Switzerland, United States of America and Yugoslavia. 
As a result of the requests 4 persons have been surrendered. 
Those persons were surrendered to the following countries: 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. The Law Reform Commission Act was proclaimed to come into operation on 3 1 December 1974. 
and (3) The Honourable  Mr Justice  Kirby, Professor A. C. Castles, Professor G. J. Hawkins and  Mr Gareth  Evans were appointed as part-time members from 1 January 197S.  Mr Justice  Kirby was appointed as full-time member and  Chairman  of the Commission from 4 February 1975. 
(a)  Mr Justice  Kirby was appointed a  Deputy President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in 1 974. He holds the degrees of Bachelor of Laws ( Honours), Master of Laws ( First Class Honours), Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Economics. He was admitted as a Solicitor of the Supreme Court of New South wales in 1962 and as a Barrister of that court in 1967; (b) Professor Castles has been professor of Law at the University of Adelaide since 1 967 and holds the degrees of Bachelor of Laws and Doctor of Jurisprudence; (c) Professor Hawkins is an Associate Professor in Criminology at the University of Sydney. He holds the degree of Bachelor of Arts and is a well-known writer in the field of criminology; (d)  Mr Evans  is a Senior Lecturer in 
Law at the University of Melbourne. He holds the degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Laws (First Class Honours) from that University and Bachelor of Arts (First Class Honours) from Oxford University. He is a Barrister and Solicitor of the Supreme Court of Victoria. 
Each member was appointed for a term of seven years. No other terms or conditions were specified. 
The Remuneration Tribunal has determined the following salaries and allowances for members of the Law Reform Commission: 
The Tribunal has indicated that in its view the remuneration of part-time members should be fixed at $2,600 per annum plus $35 for each sitting day and a daily travelling allowance should be paid at the same rate as for full-time members. 
and (8) The  Chairman  is engaged in completing the arrangements necessary for the Commission to begin its operations. A list of references of matters to the Commission is in the course of preparation and will be submitted to the Commission in readiness for the Commission's commencement of operations. 
and (10) No employees or consultants to the Commission have yet been appointed. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Yes, as an adviser to the former Attorney-General, gathering the views of the representatives present in relation to gun laws. 
Given in (2). 
No letters of invitations were issued. 
Given in (2). 

 Mr Robert Mitten, who described himself as Senior Vice-president of the Sporting Shooters Association plus three other persons accompanying him who were named as  Mr Harry  Scott,  Mr Jeff Rabbidge  and  Mr Keith  Wilman. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. A meeting was held on 1 November 1973 between officers of the Attorney-General's Department and representatives of the Sporting Shooters ' Association and the Antique Arms Collectors' Association. 
The meeting was held to discuss the whole field of firearms control. 
and (4) The former Attorney-General offered to make a Departmental Officer available for discussions. 
See answer to part (2). 
I am informed that the following persons were present at the meeting on 1 November 1973:  Mr A.  R. Watson and  Mr C.  B. Fernando of the Attorney-General's Depanment,  Mr I.  Coombes, National  President  of the Sporting Shooters' Association of Australia  Mr R.  Mitten, Senior Vice-President of the Sporting Shooters' Association of Australia  Mr J.  S winfield of the Antique Arms Collectors ' Association. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable Senator's question: 
No. 
, (3), (4) and (5) Do not arise. 
I understand that Professor Messel informed the former Attorney-General that he had not advised any of those present at the meeting on 26 March 1974 that he had a copy of such a Bill. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable Senator's question: 
I am aware that advertisements as described were published in two newspapers. 
No. 
Does not arise. 
An officer of the Attorney-General's Department who had seen the advertisements and knew from discussions with the former Attorney-General that the information was false, pointed this out to the person who purported to have authorised the publication of the advertisements. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable Senator's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
3 ) An officer of the Commonwealth Police Force spoke to the person in charge of the sports depot concerning the distribution of the pamphlet which might have amounted to an offence against the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
Does not arise. 
The pamphlet that had been distributed was a photocopy of an advertisement that had appeared in a newspaper. It was stated to have been copied and distributed without the authority of the person who had inserted the advertisement in the newspaper. 
The action by the Commonwealth Police Force was taken at the instance of the person who had authorised the insertion of the advertisement in the newspaper and of which the pamphlet was a photocopy. 
and (8) All copies of the pamphlet had been destroyed by the person who had had them photocopied prior to the visit by the officer of the Commonwealth Police Force. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
(a) Yes. 
No. 
Yes. 
No. 
No. 
3 ) An advertisement in the ' Sydney Morning Herald ' of 8 May 1974 to which the advertisement in the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' of 1 0 May 1 974 was related, had contained false, misleading and inaccurate information. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
On the authority of the former Attorney-General and for the benefit of the Australian public. 
Payment of Accounts in Printing Industry 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
) An officer of my Department spoke to  Mr Howell  who had authorised the advertisement and informed him that the advertisement contained inaccurate information. 
An officer of my Department at the request of the former Attorney-General pointed out the inaccuracies in the advertisement to  Mr Howell. 
Yes. 
It was indicated to  Mr Howell  that the advertisement could be considered as being defamatory of the former Attorney-General. 
On the authority of the former Attorney-General and for the benefit of the Australian public. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(a) No occasion. 
I am informed that an officer of the AttorneyGeneral's Department spoke to:  Mr I.  Coombes, National  President  of the Sporting Shooters ' Association on 7 May 1 974;  Mr K.  Loy of the Loy 's Arms Corporation, Sydney, on 8 May 1974;  Mr J.  Rabbidge of the Field and Game Association on 10 May 1974;  Mr Linton,  the advertising manager of the 'Wagga Daily Advertiser' on 1 3 May 1974;  Mr R.  V. Howell, Secretary of the Western Australian Clay Target Association on 16 May 1974. 
The officer of my Department who spoke to the persons mentioned persons part (l)(b) did so as the former Attorney-General had instructed him to inform the persons concerned of the inaccuracy of the advertisements. 
and (4)  Mr Coombes  wrote a letter to the editor to the Canberra Times' which was published on 9 May 1 974. 

 Mr Loy spoke to the former Attorney General on 8 May 1974. 

 Mr Rabbidge asked that copies of certain press statements by the former Attorney-General be sent to him. 
On 15 May 1974, the 'Wagga Daily Advertiser' published an apology to  Mr Loy  and to the former AttorneyGeneral. 

 Mr Howell authorised the publication of an apology in the West Australian 'on 18 May 1974. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. No decision has yet been made on the course to be adopted. Reports of the rising trend in the use of firearms in crime in Australia give me cause for considerable concern. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Assistance under the Government's structural adjustment assistance scheme only becomes available after Cabinet has decided that a particular Government action or other event warrants it. Cases so prescribed by the Government to date are: 
The 25 per cent Tariff Cut 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
1 ) (a) 4/ 16 Tintern Road, Ashfield, N.S.W.; (b) 13 Dulwich Street. Dulwich Hill, N.S.W. 
(a) Vinko Kosac; (b) Ivan and Frank Padjan. 
65 warrants were issued. 
30 March 1973. 
Copies of the sworn information and warrants were produced on 1 8 July 1 973 to the Senate Select Committee on Civil Rights of Migrant Australians. 
The Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police Force,  Mr J.  M. Davis. 
Pursuant to a request from the Committee for the Commonwealth Police to provide general assistance in its inquiries. 
and (9) Already answered in the Senate. 
and ( 1 1 ) Do not arise. 
The sworn informations and warrants that had been obtained by the Commonwealth have already been produced to the Senate Select Committee on Civil Rights of Migrant Australians and are available to all Senators. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
1 ) and (2) Almost all of the property seized had been returned by 24 June 1974. Some documentary material has been retained in connection with continuing investigations by Federal and State law enforcement authorities. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
A number of charges relating to possession of explosives were brought by the New South Wales Police as a result of the search of premises on 1 April 1973. Details of the particular searches referred to in the question are as follows: 
1 ) A . 3 10 military rifle and a Konica camera. 
Rolls of fabric material. 
3 ) Transistor radio, tape recorder and typewriter. 
Adding machine, dictation machine, typewriters, camera, light meters, stereo tape recorders, transistor radio, movie projector and movie camera. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
According to the information supplied to me, the answers are. as follows: 
1 ) Yes, on 3 September 1 974. 
Yes. 
Yes. Inspector Mills instructed Constable Hibberd to submit a report on the matter. 
Complaint to Police about Publication  (Question No. 352) 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
According to the information supplied to me, the answers are as follows: 
1 ) Yes, on 4 September 1974. 
Father Gahan said that he considered the article offensive and asked what could be done about it. 
Inspector Broomby explained the provisions of the Objectionable Publications Ordinance to Father Gahan and expressed doubt about the success of any prosecution of the person who had sold the article in question. 
No. The Commissioner of Police in the Australian Capital Territory, after a full consideration of the circumstances and the nature of the article, considered that it would be doubtful whether a prosecution would succeed. 
No. No. 
Complaint to Police about Publication  (Question No. 353) 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
According to the information supplied to me, the answers are as follows: 
The Objectionable Publications Ordinance, the Police Offences Ordinance, and the Common Law. 
An answer to this question would require a legal opinion contrary to Order 99 of the Senate Standing Orders. 
Inspector Broomby did not inform Father Gahan that he regarded the article as obscene. The Inspector said that he would obtain a report from the constable who first investigated the complaint and submit it to the Commissioner of the Australian Capital Territory Police. 
Inspector Broomby obtained a report from Constable Hibberd and submitted it to the Commissioner. 
The Commissioner of the Australian Capital Territory Police after discussion with senior officers of his Force concluded that the facts did not warrant a prosecution. 
See answer to (5). 
MrD. Ditchburn  (Question No. 418) 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. At all times  Mr Ditchburn  had advised that he would not accept fees for his services on the Cinematograph Films Board of Review. It is understood that his employment precluded him from receiving fees for other services. 
Yes. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) and (2) These matters were dealt with in the Senate on 11 December 1974 (Hansard, page 3362) and it is not proposed to add to what was said on that occasion except to say that when he was Leader of the Opposition in the Senate the former Attorney-General was entitled to make overseas visits periodically at Government expense and that he did not at any time make any such visits at Government expense. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) The former Attorney-General and  Mrs Murphy  made a visit overseas in January 1974. 
, (3) and (4) The visit was a private one. See the answer given to the honourable  Senator on  1 1 December 1974 (Hansard page 3362) 
MrD. Ditchburn  (Question No. 421) 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1) to (3) See the answers given in reply to a question by  Senator Withers  without notice on5 December 1974 (Hansard, pages 3163 and 3164). See also answer to question 446 which indicates the range of interests represented on the Board of Review. 
Yes. Regional Manager for Australasia. 
Yes. 
None, excepting in connection with films promoting travel by the airline by which he is employed. Except for the  Chairman,  none of the other members of the Board has a background in the distribution or exhibition of films. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) to (4) See the answer given by the Postmaster-General in the Senate on 1 1 December 1974 (Hansard, page 3369). 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The civil marriage celebrants who are not registry office officials or nominees are as follows: 
All. 
No. 
The fees should be disclosed as income for taxation purposes provided the gross amount of all the celebrant's income is such that a return is required. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) Section 39 (1) of the Marriage Act 1961-1973 directly confers authority to solemnise marriages on persons who under the law of a State or Territory have the function of registering marriages solemnised in the State or Territory. Under Section 39 (2) the Attorney-General may authorise other officers of a State or Territory or other suitable persons to solemnise marriages. This power has been delegated by the Attorney-General to the Secretary to the AttorneyGeneral's Department pursuant to the Law Officers Act 1964-73. 
The criterion, in accordance with the Act, is that of suitability. This means that persons authorised as civil celebrants must be of good repute, that they are capable of understanding the provisions of the Marriage Act and are able to explain these provisions to couples contemplating marriage. 
and (5) Any person may apply to be authorised to solemnise marriages. Generally, applicants are asked to complete a questionnaire form and supply a recent photograph. They are also asked to provide a copy of the marriage ceremony they would use if authorised. The needs of the community are taken into account. Rejection of an application does not necessarily mean that the applicant is unsuitable. In some areas, for example, the number of celebrants is considered sufficient to meet present demands. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Yes. It is named 'The Association of Civil Marriage Celebrants of Australia'. 
Yes. 
, (4) and (5) The Association is a private organisation. The information, if required, should be sought from the Association. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
1 ) Dragoja is not an Australian citizen and does not have an Australian passport. He applied for Australian citizenship in 1972 but a decision was made to defer the application until December 1974. He obtained a Yugoslav passport from the Yugoslav Embassy in Canberra in September 1 972 and left Australia in April 1974. 
While a member of the Croatian Democratic Committee (HDO) he was convicted and sentenced to 9 months' imprisonment in the A.C.T. in 1970 for unlawful possession of explosives. The HDO operated in conjunction with the Creation Revolutionary Brotherhood and members of both of these organisations took part in the armed terrorist raid into Yugoslavia in 1972. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) One such advertisement was published on a number of occasions. 
The advertisement appeared in metropolitan daily papers in each State and Territory, major provincial papers in each State or Terrtory, ethnic papers, weekend press, trade union press, and the Bulletin. 
I find it extraordinary that  Senator Greenwood  can have the nerve to imply precipitate action in this connection. I trust that he knows that a select committee investigated the securities industry and that its deliberations lasted for 4 years. I hope that he bears in mind that the AttorneyGeneral's Department started the preparation of this Bill in 1973, even before the Rae Committee gave its as yet incomplete report, and that the Attorney-General's Department consulted people from all walks of life and even had experts from overseas to help it in framing this Bill. It has been before the Parliament now for several months. To imply precipitate action strikes me as absurd. In any event, I will convey  Senator Greenwood's  request to the AttorneyGeneral and let him have a considered reply. 
I am afraid that the answer to the honourable senator's question is no. Egan has given no indication that he would wish to consult officers of the Australian Bureau of Narcotics regarding his or anybody else 's association with heroin trafficking. 
I will forward the request to the Minister for Science, with a request that the analysis be expedited. I will let  Senator McLaren  have the results of the analysis as soon as possible. 
I think that what the honourable senator has suggested is not unreasonable. I move: 
That an extension of time be granted to  Senator Rae. 
This will enable the honourable senator to complete the matter on which he has embarked in relation to the statements made by  Senator Georges.  I assume, of course, that  Senator Georges  will also be then given leave to reply. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator Rae cannot be given an extension longer than 30 minutes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have seen the article to which the honourable senator refers. It is an article which purports to have been written by one David McNicoll and in my view the article and especially its heading contains an innuendo which is intended to be damaging to  His  Honour. Because of that perhaps I should give some details of  His  Honour's staff which I believe refute the innuendo in the article.  His  Honour's staff consists of a Miss Angela Bowne who is not, as is suggested in the article, his personal assistant. High court judges do not have personal assistants. She is his secretary and her qualifications are that she formerly worked for several years with the Reserve Bank of Australia as secretary and research officer. She is a Bachelor of Arts of the University of Sydney. She has done post-graduate work in linguistics. She has submitted a thesis for an M.A. degree on linguistics and law with particular reference to language problems in legislative drafting and judicial interpretation, and she is now a student of law at the University of Sydney. 
Also on  His  Honour's staff is a Miss Geraldine Kinnane who is a Bachelor of Arts and LL.B. of the Australian National University and is a member of the New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory Bars. She worked for 7 years on research work, 3 years in the Department of Foreign Affairs and 4 years at the Australian National University. She has been described by the  President  of the Law Council of Australia as the best student ever to pass through the Australian National University legal workshop and she was the first Australian woman to participate in an international law seminar.  His  Honour's tipstaff is a  Mr John  Silverlock who is the senior tipstaff of the High Court and formerly a tipstaff of the late  Sir Douglas  Menzies. In other words, I would invite honourable senators to conclude that  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Murphy has probably the best qualified staff of all the High Court judges and I would hope that this magazine the 'Bulletin' will now have the common decency to call off its vendetta against  His  Honour. 
I will refer the honourable senator's question to the Attorney-General. It has overtones of the question: 'When did you stop beating your wife?' I will ask the Attorney-General for a considered reply and let  Senator Baume  have it. 
I am well aware of every statement  Mr Inglis  makes on this question. Not only have I seen the statement in today's Press, but I have spoken to him personally about this matter on several occasions. In fact, I had dinner with him the other night.  Mr 
Inglis is a very skilled and determined propagandist on behalf of his industry. I do not reproach him for that; but neither am I overwhelmed by his capacity to speak for his industry. I have other considerations. I have to consider interests other than those of the motor car industry in making decisions about sales tax. I am sure that almost every industry in this country would prefer not to have to pay sales tax or would like to have its sales tax reduced, but it is estimated that the Australian exchequer has already lost about $300m because of the Government's action in reducing sales tax as it has done. That was done as an emergency measure to help the automobile industry shift its accumulated stock of motor cars. Whether that goes on forever is surely a most serious decision for a government to make. 
I assure the honourable senator that the Government has all aspects of the motor car industry under constant review. It knows the problems the industry will have when sales tax is resumed, as the industry has known it would be. I do not mean that it will be resumed in the sense that it has ever been totally taken off, but it will start to climb to its previous level as from 1 May. The Government is aware of all these problems and the honourable senator can rest assured that decisions on sales tax in the motor car industry will be taken having in mind the interests of all sections of the Australian community, not simply those of  Mr Inglis  or the Ford Motor Company. 
I have seen something in this morning's Press along the lines mentioned by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson suggesting that an answer given by the Attorney-General on the matter of arrests for possession of cannabis may have been misleading. I would like to inform my own mind as to the sequence of events relating to this question. I will ask the Attorney-General for some information on the matter and as soon as I receive a reply I will convey it to the honourable senator. 
in reply- I have some sympathy for  Senator Rae  who certainly has made a contribution to the exposure of corrupt practices in the securities industry. After all, the fifth anniversary of the setting up of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, which came to be known as the Rae Committee, occurred just a few weeks ago. It is interesting to note that the report of that Committee has not been completed yet. I do not suggest that Senate Rae is personally involved in any sort of plot, but I do say unequivocally that we are witnessing here this week a concerted move by stockbrokers, by businessmen, by State conservative governments and by the Opposition in this place, to prevent the regulation of the securities industry by Australian Government legislation. I suppose I am not the only person who received a telegram from the Associated Chamber of Manufactures of Australia. Anybody who has received it and has read it must be struck by the remarkable similarity even of the language in it to the language that has been used in the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood. 
Let us consider the history of this matter in the Senate. The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange was appointed on 19 March 1970. It did not report back to the Senate for more than 4 years. Even when the Committee's report was tabled - 
-That is a very interesting quibble but it does not go to the point I am making. If  Senator Rae  wants to take the point that the Committee's deliberations and reports have been concluded, I should like him to advert to what I am about to say. Even when the Committee 's major report of last year was tabled on 18 July it was still incomplete. That the implementation of effective legislation would be delayed indefinitely if the Bill was referred to the Committee as suggested by  Senator Greenwood,  is evidenced by the fact that the Rae Committee has yet to present its final report. On 24 October last  Senator Rae  came into this chamber and said: 
I can inform the Senate that the chapter on Queensland Mines is in an advanced stage of preparation ... the chapter on recommendations requires drafting and the drawing together of the recommendations which exist. Part of that work- not all of it- has been done. 
It is now 10 April 1975.I remind  Senator Rae  of what he also said on that occasion. He said he thought that the report would be completed by the beginning of the first sessional period of 1975. Almost 6 months has elapsed since then. How much longer have we to wait even for the final report of what has come to be known as the Rae Committee? Do wenot take some warning from that as to what is likely to happen if the further consideration of this matter is referred to another select committee as suggested by  Senator Greenwood? 
As far as I can gather, the Opposition proposes to have a repeat of the Rae Committee. More witnesses will be called. I suppose we can let those stockbrokers who have shown how keen they are to regulate their own affairs come along and tell the Committee what they have done. I suppose we can even have some of the stockbrokers who fleeced the public but who have not been struck off come along to tell us why we should not have a securities commission to regulate the industry. I do not think we can seriously imagine that we will get a securities commission or any regulation of the securities industry in the life of this Parliament, or indeed in the life of the next Parliament. Perhaps what the Opposition is waiting for is that if we are finally to have a Bill to regulate the securities industry, it will be introduced and drawn by a government which is more sympathetic to the concerns of the industry. 
I should like to remind the Senate of the atmosphere in which this Bill was conceived and the evils which it is designed to prevent. This Bill is designed to prevent a repetition of the blatant piracy and common theft which characterised the late unlamented minerals boom when such disgraceful names as Tasminex and Poseidon were bandied around this country, and they stood for the wholesale robbery of innocent investors in this country. So that the Opposition may be in no doubt I will outline how we regard this strategem- I use the word advisedly- to prevent the Australian Government legislating to control the securities industry. The Government will regard any reference by the Senate of this Bill to a select committee or to a standing committee as a failure to pass the Bill pursuant to section 57 of the Constitution. I do not mince my words about this. We accuse the Opposition of blatant hypocrisy in this motion. The real motive, we believe, is not that this Bill should be given a scrutiny by experts and that all opinions on the Bill should be heard. I will demonstrate up to the hilt that that is crass nonsense. Never has a Bill that has come before this Senate received such careful expert attention from everybody who could possibly be interested in it. As I have said, this is a strategem, a trick, to prevent a Bill regulating the securities industry being passed by this Parliament. 
We are seeing the classic conservative ploy in a case of this nature. How often have we heard it, especially from  Senator Greenwood  when legislation is introduced into this Parliament which he does not like and when he knows that a head-on collision with the legislation would be very damaging politically to the Opposition? We heard it about the Trade Practices Bill. We hear it again today. The refrain goes something like this: 'Yes, we accept the need for a measure like this. We are all in favour of it in principle, but this particular legislation is badly drawn. This particular legislation goes too far. This particular legislation has not been given enough thought'. It is an old, old refrain. 
I am not suggesting that there are never occasions on which the collective wisdom of the Senate should not be devoted to improving a Bill. But if the honourable senator will hear me out, I think I can convince him that this is a Bill which has been prepared with great care by experts giving full attention to all possible interests. To say that that is not the case is to attempt to mislead the Senate. Of course I am not suggesting that the Opposition speaks with one voice when it says that it is in favour of this Bill in principle.  Senator Greenwood,  I think, enunciates the policy of the Opposition when he says: 
We recognise there should be an effective securities commission established by Commonwealth legislation. 
That is what he says. What he means is: 'We do not mind such legislation so long as we draw it'.  Senator Sheil  showed us a little bit of rugged Queensland pre-Adam Smith individualism in his comments on the need for a securities Bill when he stated: 
The question I ask is this: Is the regulation of the stock exchanges a proper role for government? I have not yet been convinced that it is. I know many people would not agree with me, but I think it is more properly a job for the stock exchanges themselves. 
This statement, of course, is just a great big giggle because ever since the Rae report was released to the public the stock exchanges of Australia have had ample opportunity to put their house in order. Everybody, especially the investing public in New South Wales, knows that some stockbrokers are still plying their trade who, if they should not be in gaol, certainly should not be given a continuing opportunity to fleece the public of New South Wales. The notion that stock exchanges can put or want to put their own house in order is not something which I think even  Senator Greenwood  would seriously advance.  Senator Sheil,  with that ruggedness that we expect from the State ofMr Bjelke-Petersen, found the last minerals boom, to quote his words 'wonderful and exciting'. Of course, so was the Chicago of Al Capone exciting. Is  Senator Sheil  really defending this sort of law of the jungle? I prefer to believe that the Opposition 's attitude is a little more adequately expressed by  Senator Greenwood.  He believes that there should be some regulation of the securities industry, but he believes that it should be regulated not by a Labor government but by a Liberal government. 
Let us look at the grounds upon which  Senator Greenwood-  echoed by  Senator Wright  and even, I am sorry to say, by  Senator Guilfoyleasserts  that this Bill is brought before the Senate in some sort of precipitate, hurried and careless way, without proper consideration of the problems involved. Let us acknowledge that the Rae Committee, which lasted for 4 years, merely uncovered the problems. But even that is going too far in extenuation, because as the Rae Committee unfolded the solutions became quite apparent to the experts who were associated with the Committee. It is just not true to say that they had to wait until the Committee had completed its deliberations before they got around to drafting a Bill which would attempt to cure the ills which the Rae Committee had uncovered. What does  Senator Greenwood  say in support of the proposition? He says that the Bill was introduced hurriedly; it was gagged through the second reading stage in the House of Representatives; and it is now brought here and some attempt is made to rush it through this place, too. 
But what are the facts? The facts are that a Bill, not exactly the same but in all material regards the same as the one we are discussing, was introduced into the Senate by the then  Senator Murphy,  when he was Leader of the Government in this place, on 5 December. I suppose everybody goes on holidays, but is it suggested that the Bill should have been put on a shelf by all of the interested parties who consider that it makes such inroads into their interests? I would have thought that if this was to be so fatal to the business community they might have cut their holidays a little short. In any event, it is notorious that the best corporate lawyers in Australia are prepared to work during their holidays, in order to serve those who require their services, at the enormous fees that they charge. Is it seriously suggested that if the stock exchanges and the business community of Australia seriously regarded this Bill as some sort of a threat to their interests they could not have commenced on 6 December to dissect it, to suggest improvements, to get into huddles, to contact the Government, to lobby the Government and to suggest amendments? I will show that these opportunities were amply given to all those people and that they either disregarded them or availed themselves of them. Nobody has been ambushed. Nobody has been deprived of an opportunity to express a point of view. 
I will deal with everything. First of all, let me deal with this question of rushing the legislation through the Parliament. What happened in the House of Representatives? It is true that after many honourable members had spoken on the motion for the second reading the debate was gagged. The Committee stage of the debate was not gagged. There was ample opportunity, if the Opposition in the House of Representatives had done its homework, for amendments to be moved on 6 March or a day or so later. 
I understand that is correct. That is a difference of a couple of weeks. Why was it that members of the House of Representatives, who had been lobbied by the stock exchanges and businessmen about this great threat to their world, did not move one amendment? Nobody stopped members of the Opposition in the other House moving amendments. Nobody gagged the debate in the Committee stage. Does this not lend some sort of colour to the accusation that I am making, namely, that there has never been any intention on the part of the Opposition to allow this Bill to go through this Parliament and that the present move to have this Bill referred to a select committee is merely another attempt to prevent it from ever becoming law? 
Let us look at some of the details of the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood.  I refer specifically to paragraphs (l)(a) and ( 1 ) (b) where some complaint is made about the insertion of provisions applying to corporationsprovisions which it is suggested in some way do not belong in this Bill. It is suggested that they should be the subject of a separate companies Act. Of course, that is an interesting proposition. Nobody would know better than  Senator Greenwood  what a long, protracted matter it is to come up with an Australian companies Act. The amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood  states in part: 
whether the effectiveness of such a Commission is assisted or impeded by the insertion in the Bill of Parts VI to X inclusive or any of them or of any other provisions of the Bill; 
whether such provisions would more properly and effectively be included in a Companies Act of uniform terms throughout Australia; 
It is not our intention, as a government, to resile from our stated proposition that what this country needs is a uniform, Australia-wide companies Act introduced in this Australian Parliament. Until that day arrives, is it seriously suggested by the Opposition that we could introduce a Bill for the regulation of the securities industry in this country without having the company law provisions, as they are referred to, in this Bill? It simply would not be effective. The so-called company law provisions' in the Bill are necessary to ensure that the law is effective. After all, what is a security? Securities are what this Bill is all about. A security is merely an interest in a corporation. Any securities law must begin by imposing some control over the corporations which issue these securities to the public. That is what this Bill does. It controls those functions of companies which relate to the issuance and trading of securities to the public. Those provisions have to be in this Bill if this Bill is to be operative. It is absurd to suggest that a securities law should not contain corporate provisions. It is like talking of fishing and denying that fish live in water. 
The promotion of companies is what the securities markets are all about. Nothing convinces me that I am on the right track in suggesting that we have not been told the true reasons for the attitude that the Opposition takes more than does the Opposition seriously suggesting that we could have this Bill in any workable form without including the company law provisions which are contained in it at present. As I said previously, it is curious that the telegram from the Chamber of Manufactures reiterates almost exactly the words that have been used by all Opposition senators who have spoken in support of the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood.  I know one or two stockbrokers. As I examined the words contained in the Opposition's amendment and as I read this telegram I could not help wondering where I had heard this song before. I reiterate: What we are witnessing here is a concerted move by the conservative forces in Australia to prevent the Labor Government from introducing a Bill for the control of the securities industry in this country. 
Some of the statements that were made by  Senator Greenwood  in support of his proposition to refer the Bill to a select committee and not to allow the Senate to proceed to deal with it straightaway are quite mind-boggling in their contempt for the facts, as I will demonstrate.  Senator Greenwood  said that the Government 'is shutting the door to any submissions, approaches or amendments which others are offering to it'. He continued: 
The Government has rushed this legislation through the Parliament, ignoring submissions of persons and institutions and regarding those who have put in these submissions as having no relevance or consequence to the form of legislation. We believe that there should be proper time for submissions and amendments to be considered and it is a matter for regret that efforts made by the Opposition to secure this time and to indicate that people do have submissions to make have resulted in abuse and denigration of those who are not prepared to debate the Bill when the Government determines. 
The Attorney-General's Department commenced work on the Bill early in 1973, when the early disclosures of the Rae Committee indicated - 
-Yes. I am answering the proposition that this is a hurried Bill, to the framing of which no proper consideration has been given. Until the publication of the Senate Committee's report, the Department had engaged experts to consider and report on the type of legislation required. It had consulted at length with stock exchanges and other securities industry participants. Honourable senators should not forget that at this time all the stock exchanges were piously making noises about their desire to get rid of the few rotten apples, but of course they were not doing anything about it. The Department at this time had prepared and distributed to interested parties several drafts of the Bill. It had made numerous amendments to adopt the recommendations of interested parties and experts. 
When the Select Committee's report was published, various other amendments were made to take into account the recommendations of the report. The experts involved in preparing the Bill included Professor Louis Loss of Harvard, Solomon Freedman, a former high official of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and  Dr John  Rose, to whom  Senator Rae  has paid a fitting tribute today. I would say that, without his help - 
-There would have been no report from the Rae Committee without his help. The experts involved also included expert draftsmen in the department itself. I am sorry to say that  Senator Guilfoyle  seems to think that the accounting profession has not been sufficiently considered in preparing this Bill.  Her  complaint can be seen in last night's Hansard, as follows: 
It is suggested that there are new responsibilities for the accounting profession. The members of that profession would like to have an opportunity to give evidence as to where their responsibilities lie . . . 
The accountancy profession desires to have the opportunity to describe in detail some of its thoughts with regard to the accounting responsibilities and auditing responsibilities  of the corporations and bodies which would work within the ambit of this Bill. 

 Senator Guilfoyle must have a very short memory or she would know that her husband, who is the  President  of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, was given the opportunity by the Attorney-General's Department to give his opinion about the Bill. As  Senator Guilfoyle  makes careful contributions to all debates in this place, I must assume that this incident has merely escaped her memory, or perhaps her husband omitted to tell her that he had been consulted by the Attorney-General's Department about this very Bill. One of the other parties consulted about the Bill was the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges. I have a document with me that contains a clause by clause submission from that Association on the draft of the Bill that was forwarded to it by the AttorneyGeneral 's Department. 
-How long did it need to make up its mind about what it wanted to say about this Bill? In a few moments, I will give the honourable senator some dates in relation to other people who have complained. 
What was the Opposition doing? Were Opposition senators twiddling their thumbs throughout this period? Why did it not get ready the amendments it evidently wants to move? Was this just because it was a holiday period? Life does not take account of the interests of people who will not do any work just because there happens to be a holiday period. The Attorney-General's Department received the assistance of the Sydney Stock Exchange, the Melbourne Stock Exchange, the Brisbane Stock Exchange, the Issuing Houses Association, the Accepting Houses Association, the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, and various individuals engaged in broking, law, accountancy and finance. A list of the submissions taken into account is contained in 2 pages of a report which I have here and which any honourable senator opposite can read if he wishes. In my view, those on the list represent a comprehensive cross-section of individuals or organisations in this country that could claim that they were affected by this legislation. In the light of what we have seen in the last few days from the States, it is even more interesting to see the role they are playing in the preparation of this Bill. On 23 December, a couple of days before Christmas Day,  Senator Murphy  sent the following letter to the Attorneys-General of the various States: 
I am enclosing a copy of the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1974 which I recently introduced into the Senate. A copy of the Explanatory Memorandum is also enclosed. Copies have also been sent by my Department to the appropriate State officers. 
Arising from the Bill there will plainly be matters of mutual concern to both the Australian and State Governments which I should like to discuss with you at more mutually convenient time. As a preliminary to that discussion it would seem to me to be useful if our officers could meet to discuss the various matters that are likely to arise. I have in mind that this meeting of officers might take place . in February 1975. 
Should you find yourself in general agreement with this proposal I shall be glad if you will let me know and I can have my Department take up with your officers the question of the officers ' meeting. 
It is relevant, in considering why this Bill was introduced again this year when it was introduced, to bear in mind what reaction the Australian Government received to that letter of the then Attorney-General. On 22 January the Tasmanian Attorney-General contacted the Attorney-General's Department and expressed general agreement with this proposition. He asked that a conference be arranged between his officers and the Australian Government officers. On 1 8 February the South Australian AttorneyGeneral acted similarly. However, to date, neither Western Australia nor Victoria has responded to the former Attorney-General 's invitation. 
Even more curious is the conduct of the New South Wales Government. On 24 February the Attorney-General of New South Wales,  Mr J.  C. Maddison, replied that having regard to his opinion that the Commonwealth had failed to maintain an undertaking to consult with the States, and having regard to other circumstances, he regretted that he could see no virtue in engaging in discussions of the kind proposed by the Attorney-General's predecessor, either at the ministerial or officer level. That was  Mr Maddison  's reply to the present AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Enderby.  Curiously,  Mr Knox,  the Queensland Attorney-General, who had previously indicated his acceptance of the offer extended by the former Australian AttorneyGeneral now, in the light of what  Mr Maddison  had said, and obviously after consulting him, rescinded his previous acceptance on the basis that the Commonwealth had introduced the Bill without consultation. Any honourable senator who wishes to read the letters of  Mr Maddison  and  Mr Knox  will see that they were written in collusion and, in a material way, use the same language. Yet the day before yesterday  Mr Maddison  had the hypocrisy to send a telegram in the following terms: 
Corporations and Securities Industry Bill causes the Government of New South Wales and myself concern - 
Why did he not say this a little earlier, when he had an opportunity to alter it? The telegram continues:  as to its uncertain and insufficient scope to cover the entire securities field. In its present form it is disruptive and costly to the business community-- 
Have we heard those words before? The telegram continues:  and it ignores existing State administrations and experience in this field. After discussions with Attorneys-General from Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia, am certain better approach would be for Commonwealth and the States to seek to reach an agreement to establish corporations and securities commission in which representatives from the Commonwealth and the States participate. Urge you to consider conference with States to examine prospects of agreement. Am certain such an agreement would be more effective more quickly than if present incomplete Bill passes into law due to undoubted constitutional challenges which will arise. 
Let us read between the lines and the history of the way in which the States reacted to the former Attorney-General's serious invitation to come along and discuss this Bill so that it could be ensured, as far as possible, that State interests were taken into account as well as Australian interests, and that the overlapping provisions of the various State and Australian laws might not impede the operation of the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill. 
It is clear to those with any political memory that throughout the months of December, January and much of February the conservatives in this country thought that the Labor Government would not be in office much longer. They have been brought back to reality quite recently. After refusing to collaborate, it is only now that  Mr Maddison,  seeing that we will introduce a Bill and that there is no way of stopping us from controlling the securities industry unless some subterfuge is used, some way of disguising from the Australian public the fact that the Opposition does not want us to introduce a Bill to control the securities industry, comes along with this hypocritical telegram suggesting that he is interested in collaboration. He was never interested in collaboration because he did not think that we would get the opportunity to go ahead with this Bill. He is not interested in collaboration now, but he is interested in pulling the wool over the eyes of the public so that the Liberals in this country do not have to bear the opprobrium of having opposed the introduction of measures to control the Australian securities industry. I suggest to honourable senators that this is the true story of the attitude of the Liberals in this country towards the introduction of legislation by the Australian Parliament to control the Australian securities industry. The Liberals do not want us to do it. Some of them do not want it done at all. 
I will not try to foist  Senator Shiel's  hillbilly proposition on the Opposition as a whole, but the Opposition's attitude is that it is most reluctant to have the securities industry controlled. But members of the Opposition know that public opinion is such that they cannot openly espouse the old laissez-faire notion for these stock exchanges and for the corrupt brokers who so defaced the commercial life of Australia during the last few years. The members of the Opposition know that they cannot do that. They know that there has to be some sort of legislation. But if there has to be some sort of legislation they would prefer it to be introduced later rather than sooner. If there has to be some sort of legislation they would rather they introduced it than we introduced it. Of course, they hope that by referring this Bill to another select committee it will be buried for the life of this Parliament, perhaps for the life of the next Parliament and perhaps for the life of the Parliament after that, and that with the effluxion of time they will be back on the treasury bench and they can then have a harmless and toothless securities Bill. 

 Senator Greenwood's amendment piously suggests that we might be able to conclude this task of going through the Bill clause by clause by 1 September 1975. 1 think that our experience of the Rae Committee makes that at best a pious hope and at worst a hypocritical statement that  Senator Greenwood  himself must know is not possible of fulfilment. Of course, in the light of what  Senator Rae  said today, it is interesting to remember that until this amendment surfaced he was committed to an immediate introduction in the Parliament of a securities and exchange Bill. The opening paragraph of the Rae Committee report states: 
The main finding of this Committee is that the regulation of the securities markets, of the intermediaries which operate in these markets, and of some of the activities of public companies and investment funds, is in need of fundamental reform. Our essential recommendation is that an Australian Securities Commission be established forthwith by the Federal Government to carry out this reform. 
We have been as quick as we can. In July 1 974  Senator Rae  suggested that this should be done forthwith'. It gybes very ill with 1 September 1975, even if anybody believes that that is a realistic date. Of course, it is a quite fanciful date. If this Bill was referred to a select committee of this chamber and if the Opposition was minded to drag the matter out as long as it could, it would not be 1 September 1975 or 1976 or 1977 or 1978. After all, does anybody seriously believe that in the light of the catalogue of interests which I have enumerated today and which have been consulted about this Bill and the time that was spent on and the expert attention that was given to its drawing, this Bill is not already in pretty good shape? 
I would not say that, but if there were a Committee debate on this Bill we would be prepared to give ground on several clauses. I would certainly like the opportunity of dissecting some highly incorrect and irrelevant statements that have been made about clause 283 and the 44 days provision. I can assure honourable senators that on this point the Opposition has really led with its chin. What is wrong with the forms of this chamber? Why cannot we, after the second reading debate is concluded, move into Committee, as we do with other Bills? Let us have the Opposition 's amendments. If honourable senators opposite have genuinely examined this Bill, if they have ever faced up to the fact that we intend it to become law, I think that they would have gone into huddles with their experts. After all, they have in the other place in the person of  Mr Ellicott,  a former Solicitor-General, one of the foremost legal authorities in Australia on the sorts of matters to which this Bill refers. I know that  Mr Ellicott  is a hard-working man. In his life at the Bar he was accustomed to get to mastering problems as complex as this one not in 2 or 3 weeks or 3 or 4 months, but over a weekend. I think that if honourable senators opposite were serious, if they had wanted to take this Bill seriously and propose amendments to make it a better Bill- amendments which we would have examined on their merits- they would have had no trouble whatsoever in informing their minds and coming before this chamber with an honest proposition to examine this Bill on its merits and to fulfil what they claim to be their intention. They know that they dare not say otherwise than that the securities industry in Australia should be controlled by an Act passed by the Australian Parliament. 
I say- I do not mince my words about it- that this is not an honest amendment. It is a camouflage. It is an attempt to obstruct, to delay and to manoeuvre so that proper regulation of the securities industry is not achieved. Under the dispensation proposed by the Liberals it would not be at all surprising if long before we had an Act regulating the securities industry we had another boom- more Poseidons, more Tasminexes, more Alexander Bartons- and we were left naked before the breeze. We would still have all these villains able to practise their depredations on the community. It is because we do not want that that we do not want this Bill swept under the rug or swept into some camouflage outfit like a select committee. We want the Senate to proceed with the consideration of the Bill immediately. For that reason we oppose the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Greenwood. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Greenwood's amendment)  be left out. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave for my second reading speech to be incorporated in Hansard. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report of the Committee on Computerisation of Criminal Data. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make an explanation concerning an answer to a question which I gave in this place on 10 April last. 
-Yes, I note with sorrow that the members of the profession to which I belong appear to be embarking on the same stupid path as the doctors of this country have embarked on in their long standing opposition to Medibank. I hope though that in due course they will see the light, as the doctors appear to be seeing the light. 

Government is at present giving considerable assistance to the Electrolytic Zinc Company, in particular with regard to its work at Risdon, in order to maintain the work force at its present level. In fact, it is helping to pay the wages of some people who otherwise would have been laid off. It has undertaken to do so until the end of August. It is my understanding that some of these people who would have been laid off- in fact as many as 200- have been found alternative employment. I have certainly had no inquiries from the company recently as to any of the difficulties suggested by the honourable senator. I will certainly ask my Department whether it has had any such inquiries. If the company is in difficulties of which I have not been informed, I will certainly bring the matter to the Government's attention to see what should be done to preserve the employment situation at the works of that company at Risdon. 
-Yes, 1975. 
-Senator Bessell was good enough to inform me that he would be asking me this question, so I have obtained some information for him. It is true that since January 1975 sales of superphosphate have fallen to low levels. So far as my Department has been able to ascertain, retrenchments of about 300 people have occurred in production plants. This compares with a usual employment level of between 4000 and 5000 people throughout Australia Some further retrenchments may occur. The demand for superphosphate is highly responsive to price, and steep increases in prices have occurred in the last year. This could be expected to lead to a reduced demand. 
For instance, the price of superphosphate has risen from less than $20 per tonne to about $53 per tonne. The removal of the bounty represents only $11.81 per tonne of this increase. The balance resulted from the cost of raw materials- for instance, it is well known that the price of phosphate rock went through the roof last yearand from manufacturing costs increasing. I suppose it is well known to the honourable senator that the Minister for Agriculture announced on 29 January last that a reference had been sent to the Industries Assistance Commission on the question of assistance to the users of superphosphate and that an interim report is expected on 3 1 July 1 976. 
I move: 
That the Bil] be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
I would not quarrel with the general proposition that laws should be enforced. However, the fact is that in the Australian Capital Territory it was found by trial and error that the law seeking to prohibit the smoking of marihuana was defective, mainly in its definition of cannabis sativa, the botanical name for what is known pejoratively by some as ' marihuana ' and affectionately by others as 'pot'. In any event, several prosecutions were brought and were thrown out by the courts in the Australian Capital Territory because of this deficiency in the law and the police developed the practice of not prosecuting pending the amendment of the law. As a matter of fact, it was a very costly process. Costs were awarded in several cases and it seemed to be rather counter-productive. In fact it might even have been considered to be an encouragement to pot smoking to keep bringing prosecutions that did not succeed. Accordingly the police stopped prosecuting and the deficiency was brought to the attention of the Attorney-General. A new ordinance is in the process of being framed which is designed to correct this anomaly in the law. I have no doubt that the law will then take its course and prosecutions will ensue for the possession of marihuana. 
I am not accustomed to speaking as late as this. I should have thought that the remarks of  Senator Brown  would have evinced some response from  Senator Greenwood,  who was responsible for the original outrageous charges surrounding this man. I think I will call him by the correct German pronunciation of his name- Wechsler- because that sounds more sinister and is more in keeping with the atmosphere with which  Senator Greenwood  sought to surround this extraordinary case. Since we are dealing with horrendous Marxist plots, perhaps  Senator Greenwood  will forgive me for quoting Marx. 
Karl Marx. I am sorry that I do not have the text in front of me. I have not got his ipsissima verba. As I recall the text- I will explain to  Senator Greenwood  how I happen to have some familiarity with this text- Marx said that history repeats itself, that what occurs first as tragedy repeats itself as farce. In the history of this Parliament we had a spy hunt, a really fantastic scare based on a character named Petrov. 
The Petrov case had its transparently ludicrous side. It is all right,  Senator Greenwood,  I will not be long. I notice from perusing Hansard that  Senator Greenwood  wasted some hours of the time of the Senate with his fantastic charges. I can promise him that I will be no more than 10 minutes. He need not stay if he does not wish to do so. We had our fantasy of 20 years ago, but still it was a tragedy. The Petrov case was a tragedy even though, as I have said, it had its ludicrous side. It had the effect of destroying a great man in the person of  Dr Evatt.  It had the effect of splitting a great party- the Australian Labor Party. It had the effect of perpetuating in office a government which was unworthy to run this country. If one looks at it historically, it had the result of producing a series of disastrous Liberal Prime Ministers who preceded the accession of a government which came to the rescue of this country. So for all its ludicrous side, we may regard the Petrov case as a tragedy. 
However,  Mr Menzies'  Petrov has been replaced by  Senator Greenwood  's Wechsler, and I suggest that this is an example of what Marx said- that history repeats itself, the first time as tragedy and the second time as farce. I have been looking at the way in which this great expose by  Senator Greenwood  was launched. It makes quite astonishing reading. It says a lot for  Senator Greenwood's  hide that he is even prepared to sit here and listen to a repetition of what he said about this man who exposed the awful connections between the revolutionaries in Australiathe members of the Socialist Workers League, I think it is called- and the Australian Labor Party. Looking back at the Senate Hansard of 5 March 1975 I find this marvellous melodramatic opening by  Senator Greenwood.  There should be a roll of drums to introduce it. He said: 
There is in Australia a young man named Max Wechsler. He is a Czech refugee from the Russian communism which was so forcefully re-imposed on Czechoslovakia in 1 968. 
So far so good- even perhaps true. But as the story of Max Wechsler unfolds it hardly bears out the fine promise of drama and tragedy adumbrated by the honourable senator in his opening remarks.  Senator Greenwood  went on to say that he had been cloistered with this Wechsler for some hours listening to his horrifying story of the threat to the security of this country. It is really a touching picture of a hardboiled, sceptical Queen's Counsel, cloistered with this obviously pathetic, psychological misfit and swallowing his outlandish story. That is exactly what he did. 
What did  Senator Greenwood  seek as reinforcement for this belief in this outrageous story? He sought none other than the highly authentic report of that conservative, careful, documented newspaper, the 'Sunday Observer' which every other reader of newspapers in Australia knows to be a muck-raking, gutter rag.  Senator Greenwood  accepted this newspaper's highly coloured story of this man going to bed with women in order to get their secrets from them. We remember a few weeks ago  Senator Greenwood  standing in this place and being outraged by the suggestion that Australian journalists and the Australian party that went to Russia might have been bugged. To him the mere allegation that this had happened was proof that it had happened. This was the most extraordinary, fantastic James Bond story. Perhaps we have to go back further to Rider Haggard and to people we can hardly remember who wrote these extraordinary stories. To  Senator Greenwood  this sort of thing was gospel when it came from this extraordinary young, neoritic, unverified character named Max Wechsler. 
As he goes on to unfold the story we find that Max Wechsler had infiltrated one organisation which constituted a threat to the very foundations of Australian society. As  Senator Greenwood  told the story, Max Wechsler says that in Victoria there are about 50 or 60 activist members and several hundred supporter members of this organisation. Of course, these people were mostly young people. As a matter of fact, I have met this type of young man, and in order to show my familiarity with the problem, I inform  Senator Greenwood  that at the age of 20 years I belonged to just such an organisation. I recall that at the height of our power, when we really constituted a threat to Australia, there were about fifteen of us. We were doctrinally pure. In fact, whenever our group rose beyond the size of about 20 members we used to split up because we were not doctrinally pure enough. I have no doubt that at that time- in fact I know- I was on the files of what was then the predecessor of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, but I would have been terribly flattered, as would all my colleagues, to have been thought to be any sort of a menace to the security of Australia.  know that in those days the security forces regarded people like me and my like as something of a jest, some sort of a joke. In all societies there have been romantic young men and romantic young women who thought that they could take society by storm, that they could rush up to the barricades. I have met a lot of them today who usually come from the more affluent families and who are ready to drive up to the barricades in their fathers' Volvos. These are mostly the sort of people whom  Senator Greenwood  heard from  Mr Wechsler  constituted a great threat to the very fabric of Australian society.  Senator Greenwood  seriously stood up in this place and tried to scare the Australian Senate and the Australian people with the notion that we should not sleep easily in our beds because of the presence of these people who had been infiltrated by this patriotic young man, this young man Wechsler who had experienced the horrors of communism in Czechoslovakia. He had come to Australia presumably to expiate his crimes or his illusions. There is the fact that for a while he had believed.in the romantic dream that you can overturn existing society by storming the barricades. So he decided to join ASIO and expose this awful plot. He told his amazing story. He even had the code name of Bosch. Perhaps that was misread. It may have been something else. He got so far in the organisation of this terrorist outfit that was a threat to Australian society that he even became a member of the elite 8-man brains trust. I ask honourable senators to contemplate the awful threat to Australia of this 8-man brains trust, consisting of 18, 19 and 20- year-old boys and girls ready to roll up to the barricades in their fathers' Volvos, Mercedes or Jaguars. 
As I will show a little later, this obviously neurotic, unbalanced young man sat himself down with  Senator Greenwood  and told him this terrible story of a double life, of taking girls to bed for sex and information. He regaled  Senator Greenwood  with this horrifying tale, and  Senator Greenwood  then came into this Parliament and regaled us with it. Of course, after a while the real purpose of the exercise became clear when  Senator Greenwood  started dropping a few names which Wechsler had dropped, namely, that when he was in any trouble, or when the wild revolutionaries with whom he associated were in any trouble, all they had to do was to get on the blower to  Dr Cairns, Dr Cass  or  Mr Enderby.  He did not mention wild revolutionaries such as  Senator Poyser, Senator McAuliffe  or  Senator Milliner;  but, undoubtedly, the implication was that there were people in the Labor Party with whom any cloak and dagger men who wanted to bomb Australia could get in touch, and they would fix it all up with the police and conceal all these crimes. Unfortunately for  Senator Greenwood,  the bubble finally burst. For this poor unfortunate man- I say this advisedly- I have nothing but pity because, after all, the extremities of political life attract the ratbags, the misfits, the neurotics and the dropouts. We would be just as entitled to accuse Liberal Party members of being identified with the League of Rights, because a few madmen on the Right seek them out and infiltrate them, as  Senator Greenwood  is in branding us with the extremists of the Left because a few of them have infiltrated- as I have no doubt they do- the Labor Party. 
Is the honourable senator suggesting that there is some sort of Wassermann test that political parties can conduct on those seeking to join them, that we can take some sort of test to show that they are pure and uninfected by marxism, fascism or whatever else, or that there is some way in which a political party can protect itself from any infection? I suggest that a healthy party such as ours can stand a few ratbags, a few infiltrators and a few misguided idealists who one day will grow out of their mistakes, and that an attempt such as  Senator Greenwood  has made to brand this Party as being something like a party suffering from gangrene because a few of these people might have happened to get into it was, if not a dishonest exercise, a paranoid exercise. It all came undone because one day his knight in shining armour, his infiltrator, his honest man seeking to expose the Labor Party for its infection with communism, finally showed himself to be the poor misguided ratbag that he was. He was picked up in the street, carrying a rifle, and gave an hysterical, disjointed and obviously paranoid story to the police who arrested him.  Senator Greenwood's  exposer of the Labor Party was exposed for the poor, pathetic character that he was. 1 think that, as matter of common decency, having seen what became of his exposer of the Labor Party,  Senator Greenwood  might now stand up in this place here and admit that he was deluded and that he needs much better evidence than Wechsler 's in order to flay the Labor Party. 
I am not aware of the facts stated by the honourable senator, but I will draw his question to the attention of my colleague the Minister for Science and let the honourable senator have a reply. 
I will be pleased to obtain that information and pass it on to the honourable senator. 
There is a curious discontinuance between the proposition which  Senator Wright  puts in respect of one Bill and that which he puts in respect of another Bill. I can recall recently, when we were discussing the Superior Court Bill, his being outraged at the proposition that the High Court be relieved of some of its primary jurisdiction. Now he seems to be suggesting that original jurisdiction should not be conferred on the High Court. Is that what the honourable senator is suggesting? 
I am finding it very difficult to follow his arguments from one Bill to another. I suggest that the proposition advanced on this Bill that matters of importance such as this should be the consideration of the High Court is consistent with the view which this Government has always advanced, and I can see nothing that we have to explain in clause 5 of the Bill which provides that original jurisdiction is conferred on the High Court in suits under this Act and no other court has jurisdiction in such a suit. Matters of such fundamental importance as this belong to the High Court and to no other court. I fail to see that this Government has anything to explain in espousing this clause. 
-My attention has been drawn to the article to which the honourable senator refers. It appears from the report that instructions to the representatives of this company are that white Australians of European origin may be insured for up to $35,000 without medical examination but that a medical examination is required in all cases where the applicant is a person who is not of British parentage and has resided in Australia for less than 2 years, or is a full, half or quarter caste Chinese, Indian, etc., that is, a person other than of the European race. The company claims that discrimination is not involved but that it is a question of correct underwriting because nonwhite, non-Europeans have a lower life expectancy than Europeans. In the light of the report of the instructions that the company has issued, it may be thought doubtful whether this explanation is a true one. 
Section 13 of the Racial Discrimination Bill which, I think, has reached the second reading stage in the Senate, provides - 
I have heard something of this matter and I understand that it is being investigated by my Department. I am unable to pass any opinion on whether it is a fact that this company lost a contract due to the tariff policies of the Government. But I do know that my Department is regularly processing claims based on allegations that the difficulties of various companies are due to the conduct of this Government and that on investigation many of the difficulties of many of these companies turn out to be due merely to the mismanagement of their directors. 
I must confess that I have some sympathy with the feeling behind what the honourable senator has said. I have always liked the term 'Commonwealth' and, had it been left to any initiative of mine, I would not have readily thrown it out. However, I suggest that it is primarily a matter of preference and not a matter on which any great constitutional matters turn. Certainly the word 'Commonwealth ' occurs in the Constitution. 
-Yes, but the Prime Minister and those advising him have decided in the fullness of their judgment that the term 'Australian' is preferable. It is not something about which I feel strongly, but I must confess that I, too, feel some regret at seeing the word 'Commonwealth' disappear from many places where I have found it appropriate. 
-The honourable senator was good enough to pass to me before asking this question an extract from the 'Canberra Times', headed 'Cruelty to a Lobster', consisting of a letter to that paper written by a resident of Queanbeyan drawing attention to the circumstances which the honourable senator described. In some gourmet restaurants it is possible for diners to select live fish for their meals but at least such fish are kept in conditions of comfort, even bliss, up to the moment before they become somebody's meal. However, it seems to me that the circumstances described by the honourable senator do constitute some cruelty to the fish in question. I will draw the Attorney-General's attention to this fact and ask him to make provision to prevent the repetition of such practices. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to modify the provision at present made by section 46 of the Constitution in relation to disqualifications of members and senators by virtue of sections 43, 44 and 45 of the Constitution. Section 46 provides that, until the Parliament otherwise provides, any person declared by the Constitution to be incapable of sitting as a senator or as a member of the House of Representatives shall, for every day on which he so sits, be liable to pay the sum of f 100 to any person who sues for it in any court of competent jurisdiction. This provision has not been availed of since Federation by any common informer. It has its origin in old United Kingdom legislation which has, so far as concerns recovery of penalties by common informers, been repealed in more recent times. For reasons which I explain later, the Government does not intend to repeal it in its entirety but to modify it. 
There is one matter that I think I should make absolutely clear to honourable senators. This is that the provisions made by the Bill before the Senate will not affect the reference of any question affecting disqualification to the High Court by the Senate in relation to which a question arises in pursuance of section 203 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. That procedure will still be open and will no doubt be followed in appropriate cases. 
It seems to the Government that the penalty provided by section 46 is archaic and out of proportion to the kinds of breaches of the disqualifying provisions that can occur in the complexities of modern life. I might mention that the penalty of £100 per day provided for by the section is a fixed penalty, and not a maximum one, so that the total penalty that could be incurred by a member or senator could amount to enormous sums where the infringement does not become apparent until years after it has occured. 
The Government does not believe that a breach of the Constitution should be condoned, no matter how the breach occurred. The Bill now before the Senate will result, in the Government's view, in an equitable solution to this difficult question. The Bill provides for the recovery of a penalty of $200 in respect of a past breach at the suit of any person. It provides an adequate sanction in enabling a further $200 per day to be recovered for each day the member or senator sits when disqualified after he has been served with the originating process. Thus if a serious allegation is made and proceedings issued, the member or senator will be at risk if he continues to sit. 
The power to make provision repealing or modifying the common informer provision in section 46 of the Constitution is provided by section 5 1 (xxxvi) of the Constitution in conjunction with the words 'Until the Parliament otherwise provides' in section 46 itself. This Bill is an exercise of that power. 
It is not the intention of the Government to encourage common informer proceedings. But it feels that this procedure should be kept open notwithstanding its disuse during the twentieth century in relation to the Australian Constitution. However, we do not think it should be a vehicle by which a private citizen should be put in a position unjustly to enrich himself. The purpose of the provision is to allow alleged disqualifications to be independently tested. There is already another procedure for this and in normal circumstances it would seem to the Government that the Senate itself would refer the question to the High Court and have the matter properly judicially determined. One significant change that the Bill will make is that common informer proceedings if brought are to be brought in the High Court. 
The Bill will apply to disqualifications that have occurred before the date on which it becomes law as well as those that occur after that date. However, a provision has been included in clause 3 that a suit under the Bill is not to relate to any sitting of a person as a senator or member at a time earlier than 12 months before the day on which the suit is instituted. It does not appear to the Government to be in the public interest that the Bill should be used as the means of raising matters long since past. 
The Bill also makes it clear that in any common informer proceedings a senator or member at fault is not to be penalised more than once in respect of the same wrongful sitting. It will be seen that the Bill will thus preserve the common informer procedure provided for by the Constitution, while modifying its application in a way that will be more in keeping with modern times and justice. The Houses 'power to refer questions of disqualification to the High Court will remain unaffected. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
-I am about to quote what is in the Bill. I am sure that the honourable senator will be glad to hear it if he has not already read the Bill. Clause 13 provides: 
It is unlawful for a person who supplies goods or services to the public or to any section of the public- 
to refuse or fail on demand to supply those goods or services to another person; or 
to refuse or fail on demand to supply those goods or services to another person except on less favourable terms or conditions than those upon or subject to which he would otherwise supply those goods or services, 
If by reason of the race, colour or national or ethnic origin of that other person or of any relative or associate of that other person. 
In clause 3 of the Bill, 'services' are defined as including: 
. services consisting of the provision of facilities by way of banking or insurance or of facilities for grants, loans, credit or finance. 
Accordingly, conduct of the kind reported would be made unlawful by those provisions of the Racial Discrimination Bill. 
I have not heard of the alleged facts as stated by the honourable senator and, of course, I pass no judgment on the truth or falsity of them. If the facts are as stated by the honourable senator there would seem on the face of it a matter which should be investigated by the corporate affairs commission or whatever body is charged with the superintendence of the affairs of companies and the conduct of directors in Queensland. I know that in New South Wales AttorneysGeneral have been in recent years notoriously slow and even dilatory in the investigation of alleged company scandals, but I know nothing of the practice or reputation of the Queensland equivalent of the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission. All I can say in passing is that the existence of a practice such as that alleged, if these practices are in fact occurring, underlines the necessity for an Australian companies Act to be passed by this Parliament at the earliest possible moment. 
For the information of honourable senators I present an interim report by staff members of the Bureau of Meteorology entitled: Cyclone Tracy'. 
It would not be proper for me to give any assurances to the honourable senator on behalf of the Attorney-General, but I will convey his remarks to the Attorney-General. 
-The last time I can remember something of this nature occurring was when the wife of a member of the Liberal Party was advertising sheets. I do not remember that provoking any outrage on the part of the present Opposition. However, I will direct this question to the Attorney-General and let the honourable senator have a reply in due course. 
On 26 February 1975  Senator Gietzelt  asked the following question, without notice: 
Is the Minister for Manufacturing Industry aware that consumers are experiencing difficulties in purchasing a wide variety of goods, that large retail stores have allowed stocks to be depleted, and that consequently consumer durables, timber, nails, items of drapery and other locally manufactured goods are in short supply? In view of the unemployment position, can the Minister explain why manufacturers and/or retailers are not combining their efforts to provide consumers with a choice of goods? Will the Minister have his officers carry out a survey in the market place to verify these complaints and examine whether manufacturers and retailers are involved in some plan, action or conspiracy to reduce production and distribution in an effort to exacerbate current economic disabilities and embarrass the Australian Government? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
In response to the honourable senator's question I undertook to ask my Department whether a survey could be conducted into the availability of consumer goods in large retail stores. A survey of these stores has shown that the total value of their stocks is higher than it was a year ago. It would appear that the increase is due to price increases to a greater extent than to increases in quantity and some lines such as colour television are in short supply because of unexpectedly high demand. In certain other cases there have been shortages resulting from reduced production caused by liquidity problems and increased costs affecting manufacturers. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
I have a distinct impression that our opponents have not really got their hearts in this debate. Having been whipped up into a state of mock indignation by a few hysterical editorials a couple of weeks ago and by their own failure to read the plain meaning of words, honourable senators opposite have been stuck with this motion today. Even such hardy old cold war warriors as  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Carrick  have given me a distinct impression that they were merely going through the motions. That is about the kindest interpretation that one can put on their conduct. It is a much kinder one than to accuse them of moral obtuseness, thickness of hide or bluntness of conscience; but those who look back on their whole record in relation to the Vietnam matter might be excused for putting that interpretation on their conduct here today. It also shows a very poor political sense in the Opposition regurgitating a theme which has so greatly discredited it. If there is one thing that I think the conservative forces in this country would like to forget, would like to sweep into the ashcan of history, it is their record in relation to Vietnam. But no, they are trying to drag what they think is the last little bit of political credit out of the matter. 
I think that anybody who has listened closely to this debate on the very cables and letters themselves must conclude that you have to go in for more hair-splitting and pettifogging that you usually expect from even lawyers like  Senator Greenwood  in order to find a meaning in the conduct of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or of his representative in this place in relation to this matter in order to give the words the meaning which the Opposition seeks to attribute to them. I found the efforts of honourable senators opposite in this regard to be just plain dreary. Let us test the good faith of the Opposition in this matter.  Senator Greenwood  said that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  had shown a lack of the candour, honesty and respect for the Parliament which the Parliament is entitled to expect from Ministers. Surely we cannot have a more gruesome example of a double standard, of a lack of sincerity or of a total absence of credibility than words like that from a Party with this record on this very subject. 

 I have heard  Senator Greenwood  sometimes inveighing against what has always struck me as a rather fair newspaper in the city of Melbourne, the 'Age'. I do not know whether  Senator Greenwood  likes to read only newspapers which give a favourable version of events according to his political standards, but I would recommend for this reading a series which has appeared in the 'National Times' over the last 3 weekends. It is a piece of painstaking, brilliant journalistic research into the history of Australia's involvement in the Vietnam war. If he or other Opposition speakers had read that series I doubt whether they would have had the nerve to stand up in this place today and utter words like 'duplicity' and 'falsehood' and phrases like 'misleading the Parliament' on this very subject where the entire record of the Opposition when it was in government was one of duplicity, deliberate deceit, half-truth and the concealment of facts- much more serious facts than those we are considering- which amounted to dragging this country into a war in which it had no legitimate part. 
This is a particularly interesting newspaper to be publishing these facts. It cannot be discredited as some disreputable little communist rag or some little minority organ. In fact it is published by the same mighty organisation which publishes the 'Sydney Morning Herald' from which  Senator Carrick  drew much comfort when he referred, in particular, to an article which appeared in it a couple of weeks ago and which I suspect is primarily the cause for the Opposition getting all steamed up about this matter. I think that this editorial is about as hysterical a piece of writing as I can remember seeing in a newspaper which is becoming increasingly hysterical as Labor holds on to office in this country. It is a newspaper which regards a Labor government as some quaint form of historical aberration and which inveighs against us from day to day. I do not remember the exact phrase that was used by  Senator Carrick,  but it was something on the lines that what  Mr Whitlam  and  Senator Willesee  were alleged to have done in relation to the cables and the letters which are the subject of this debate amounted to something like the most monstrous piece of deceit in the history of the Australian government since Federation. 
The editorial went on to draw the conclusion that this conduct absolved the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  from any undertaking which he had given, to the effect that in general a government should be allowed to serve out its full term. The editorial suggested that the conduct of the Government in this matter was so heinous that all bets should be called off and that we should be tipped out of government. The Appropriation Bills have not yet been passed. Surely in the next day or two we will see whether what we have had from members of the Opposition today is merely an exercise in empty rhetoric, a sort of knee-jerk reaction whenever the matter of Vietnam arises, or whether they agree with the editorialist of the 'Sydney Morning Herald ' and regard this conduct as so heinous as to warrant the Government being thrown out of office. It will be interesting to see what they do. I for one do not think they are nearly as serious as they sound because they know in their hearts that they do not have a leg to stand on. 

 Senator Maunsell upbraided  Senator Gietzelt  for having referred to some incidents in the past in relation to Vietnam because, he said, they were irrelevant to this debate. Surely they are highly relevant. We are concerned here in charges of misleading the Parliament and with a comparison of the conduct of members on this side with that of members of the Opposition in the matter of dealing honestly with the Parliament and with the Australian people. So 1 think it is peculiarly apposite for us to recall what must rank as an infinitely greater act of deception than anything that has been done by this Government. 
Much greater. The allegation that deception was practised by  Sir Robert  Menzies in 1965 has never been answered by the previous Government. In fact, one of his successors, the egregious  Mr McMahon,  even compounded the difficulties of the previous Government when in 1971 he attempted to give an explanation. He merely proved that everything we had said about that deception was abundantly true. 
I do not acknowledge that there is any deception on the part of the present Prime Minister. I would think that if  Senator Greenwood  were in a court of law attempting to make out a case that it was more probable than not that the Prime Minister had even unconsciously, let alone deliberately, deceived the nation over these communications, he would fail singly to make out his case 
The case against  Sir Robert  Menzies and the various other distinguished characters of the past referred to by  Senator Gietzelt  is an overwhelming one. I commend the evidence contained in the newspaper produced by the Fairfax organisation on which  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Carrick  would rely. It is a careful examination of the events. I refer honourable senators opposite to the debate at the time of the announcement by  Sir Robert  Menzies on 29 April 1965 and to the letters which were produced in 1971 by  Mr McMahon  which show abundantly that  Sir Robert  Menzies set out not only to deceive the Parliament but to follow a pattern of deceit of his Cabinet over a period of months before making an announcement committing an Australian battalion to fight in Vietnam. The impression that he set out to make by an elaborate program of deceit was that the Australian battalion was being sent to Vietnam only at the request of a friend who needed us there to help him in his hour of extremity. The evidence proves overwhelmingly that the Australian representative went cap in hand, every day knocking on the door of the Vietnamese  President,  in effect saying: 'Won't you ask us to send you some troops?' It was only on the morning of the day on which  Sir Robert  Menzies announced that the battalion was being sent to Vietnam that he extracted a letter which said not in effect 'we ask you to send a battalion here ', but 'we take up your offer to send us a battalion'. 
The history of this period makes abundantly clear that the Australian conservative governments were not attempting to help the poor 
South Vietnamese but were attempting to toady to their great and powerful friend, the United States, and were attempting to involve the United States more and more deeply in this part of the world. It was not only a deception of one day or one phrase; it was a long, drawn out, carefully calculated deception of the Parliament, of the government of the day and of the Australian people by the leaders of that Government. For anybody at this moment to attempt to turn the charge of deception, of falsehood, of lying to Parliament against this Government is, in my view, an act of obscenity. 
I suppose that by implication  Senator Missen  is saying that the fact that they were so dreadful does not excuse us. That is if his interjection means anything. I maintain that what I have said about  Sir Robert  Menzies and the previous Government has not been refuted. I maintain that the Opposition today, here and in the other chamber, has failed singly to make out a case that anybody practised any deception on this Parliament in relation to the communications which passed between this Government and the Government in Hanoi or the Government in Saigon in the recent past. 
I appeal to members of the Opposition to forget, in their own interests, this question of Vietnam. There is nothing left for them in it. There was never anything but discredit and shame for them in Vietnam. Forget about it. Stop talking about it. Or if they talk about it they should talk about it in the vein in which our Prime Minister talked to  President  Ford, and that is that the only thing that those who despoiled this poor unfortunate people can do now in any decency is not to grandstand about orphans, not to pretend that we can accommodate thousands of Vietnamese in this country, but to contribute generously to rebuild the land that we have despoiled. This is the only decent thing that an Australian government can do about South Vietnam or North Vietnam at present. Honourable senators opposite must stop trying to make politics out of it or to get some cheap advantage out of it because not only are they not entitled to such an advantage but they are falling on their faces in the process. If they went back to their electorates and asked how they were doing on this question of Vietnam, I am sure they would find that they were not doing at all well. If they rely on the judgment of people such as  Senator Greenwood  who has this knee-jerk reaction to anything involving communism they will not be helping their own cause, and they will be wasting the time of a parliament which should be devoting its time and energies to much more important things. 
Let us have debates on inflation. Let us have debates on the state of the economy. Let us talk about things about which we can really do something and in which we should be making a real effort to solve problems. Yes, we acknowledge that there are problems. We do not suggest that anybody attempting to run a complex industrial society today can avoid making errors. We do not suggest that we do not need all the help we can get to solve these problems. One of the best contributions that members of the Opposition could make would be to stop talking about things in which their record is discredited and in which they have no positive suggestions. Let us discuss the matters which are the real gravamen of our country's troubles. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
This Bill and a complementary Bill, the Customs Bill, which will be introduced shortly, are designed to give effect to the Government's decision to adopt the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Anti-dumping Code. The opportunity will also be taken to strengthen the Government's powers to protect Australian industry against the practices of dumping and subsidisation of imported goods, in the light of experience gained with the existing Act, the Customs Tariff (Dumping and Subsidies) Act. That Act will be repealed with the coming into operation of this Bill. Australia, as a member of the GATT, is bound by the Agreement's anti-dumping and countervailing duty provisions, contained in Article VI of the GATT. 
In 1967 the GATT issued the text of an agreement, known in short as the Anti-dumping Code, which interpreted the provisions of Article VI of the GATT on anti-dumping duties and laid down rules for their application so as to ensure the greatest possible uniformity in the practices of acceding governments. A comparison of the Code with the present Australian legislation and practices in relation to anti-dumping showed that there were no substantial differences between them. The report of the InterDepartmental Committee on the feasibility of Australia acceding to the GATT Anti-dumping Code was tabled in the Senate on 4 December 1973, and concluded that accession to the Code would not inhibit Australia in taking effective measures to counter what it considers to be actionable dumping. 
The Code is the accepted international system to counter dumping practices. Most of Australia's major trading partners are Code signatories, and our adoption of the Code would minimise resistance by those countries to our conducting dumping inquiries within their territories. By acceding to the Code we will become a member of the Committee on Anti-Dumping Practices. This Committee meets annually for the purpose of affording parties to the Code the opportunity of consulting on matters relating to the administration of their anti-dumping systems in the light of the provisions of the Code and the furtherance of its objectives. One significant point of difference between the provisions of the present Act and the Bill arises out of considerations other than those determined by the decision to adopt the Anti-dumping Code. In 1965 the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board referred to the unwarranted costs, delays and inconvenience out of the requirement for a prior inquiry and report by the Board before the Minister could impose dumping duties. 
In 1973 the Government sought a report from  Sir John  Crawford and  Mr Rattigan  on this issue. The report which was released on 9 January 1974 confirmed the view that the Minister should be empowered to impose a dumping duty without prior inquiry and report by the Industries Assistance Commission. The report did recommend, however, the decisions of the Minister should be appealable to the Commission. The provisions of the Bill reflect these recommendations. I commend this Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator DrakeBrockman)  adjourned. 
I want to refer to the last point raised by  Senator Missen.  It is true that the Government has had in contemplation for some time the establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Office on a statutory basis. A Bill to achieve that end is well advanced and we hope to introduce it into the Parliament in the near future. I would not like anything very contentious or sharply political to be injected into this debate on the Australian Legal Aid Office because I esteem and value the contributions that  Senator Missen  always makes in these matters. I do not question the fact that his contribution to this debate is based on a desire to see the Australian Legal Aid Office find its proper place in the total scheme of legal aid in this country. I have no doubt that he laments, as I do, the unfortunate complications and delays that have arisen in the implementation of the aspirations of the Australian Government in this respect, especially with regard to legal aid in Victoria. 
This matter was raised not only by  Senator Missen  tonight in the mild and temperate way which is his custom but also in a sharp and acerbic way by  Senator Greenwood,  which is his custom, when Appropriation Bill (No. 5 ) was being discussed on 23 April. I would like to correct a certain misapprehension which  Senator Greenwood  had about the nature of the grant of legal aid to Victoria. In the debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 5) on 23 April he made certain comments. I will not quote his remarks in full, but he was suggesting that there was some derogation from the authority of the Australian Government in the matter of a grant of legal aid when the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  was imposing certain conditions and insisting - 
-Senator Greenwood would be wise to listen because he is on very bad constitutional ground. As I said in my opening remarks, I would like to have kept this debate on the reasonable and temperate level which is customary among lawyers and which is always adhered to by  Senator Missen.  But if  Senator Greenwood  wants to conduct the debate on a sharply acerbic and political ground, why does he not make sure that he gets his facts right? For instance, he attacked the conditions which the Attorney-General was imposing in handing over the money which had been appropriated to assist the Victorian legal aid scheme on the basis that he was taking too much upon himself because, as  Senator Greenwood  misapprehended, this was a grant under section 96 of the Constitution. I trust that in the time that has been available to him since this matter was last debated  Senator Greenwood  has taken a little bit of legal advice- something which lawyers often need- and has discovered that a legal aid grant is not a section 96 grant. I detect no interjection from  Senator Greenwood,  so I assume that he accepts that correction of the misapprehension which he brought to- this debate last time this matter was before the Senate. Nor is it a grant involving a new policy. It was an item in the Appropriation Bill and it contemplates that grants may be made direct to legal aid bodies. The constitutional basis of this grant is section 8 1 of the Constitution. 
In any event,  Senator Greenwood  totally misapprehended the basis of this power and he suggested that the Attorney-General had taken too much upon himself in insisting that before the grant was paid over to the State of Victoria the Australian Attorney-General was entitled to ask for certain guarantees of co-operation. Far from having any guarantees of co-operation, what he was met with by the Attorney-General of Victoria was a challenge to the legal basis of the legal aid which he was insisting on getting. 

 Senator Greenwood finds himself in the extraordinary position of complaining that the State of Victoria missed out on a grant of $307,000 in legal aid while supporting the proposition that this grant is not legally based. He is seeking, in the language of the lawyers with which I take it he is familiar, both to approbate and to reprobate. But the Attorney-General of Australia took the reasonable view that he was entitled to some assurances of co-operation from the Victorian Attorney-General before he should hand over this munificence from the Australian Government amounting to $307,000. 

 Senator Greenwood, under the misapprehension that this was a section 96 grant, accused the Australian Attorney-General of exceeding his power. I assume that  Senator Greenwood,  with his intimate acquaintance with the lawyers of Victoria, would know that  Mr Wilcox,  the Victorian Attorney-General, is a fanatical, troglodytic advocate of States right and is way out of tune with the lawyers of Victoria.  Senator Greenwood  would know that, no matter what resolution was carried by whatever stage management was involved within the Law Institute of Victoria, the Council of the Law Institute of Victoria, representing the more enlightened members of that Institute, was in favour by 20 to one of rejecting the motion that was carried by the Law Institute of Victoria to challenge the validity of the legal aid scheme. 
He would also know that the legal aid committee and prominent members of the Council of the Law Institute of Victoria would prefer, and have made it quite clear they would prefer, to deal directly with the Attorney-General of Australia than to have the moneys that have been allocated to them channelled through the Attorney-General of Victoria who is totally out of tune with the more intelligent people in the legal business in Victoria. I have no doubt that  Senator Greenwood,  representing as he does the Neanderthal wing of the Victorian legal community, would find himself in tune with  Mr Wilcox,  but his fellow lawyers in Victoria do not share that view. 
The Attorney-General of Australia, in attempting to cut the Gordian knot and get legal aid off the ground in Victoria, took it upon himself to send the money direct to the legal aid committee, and it was gladly accepted with outstretched arms. Is  Senator Greenwood  now suggesting that the money should be withheld from the purposes for which it was intended in Victoria merely in order that the amour-propre of a 
Neanderthal member of the Victorian legal community should be satisfied? I think he is completely out of tune with the lawyers of Victoria, and if he wants to follow this mad crusade that he is following by suggesting that everything that is done by the Australian Government is bad and everything that is done by the State governments is good, he will be denying legal aid to the people of Victoria who need it so badly, especially in view of the imminent collapse of the legal aid schemes in Victoria because of a massive defalcation which is in prospect. So  Senator Greenwood  may take his ground wherever he likes. He may stand up and proclaim the evil of all things done by the Australian Government, this hostile foreign power, and in doing so he can deny legal aid to all sorts of necessitous litigants in the State of Victoria 

 - Senator Cotton is certainly entitled to answers to the questions that he has postulated. I suggest that a part of the answers was provided by the Leader of his Party in the other place when  Mr Wentworth  lamented the making of handouts to Tasmania. It is curious, of course, that whenever the matter of Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd or Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd is being discussed objections to what the Government has done are never voiced by  Senator Wright, Senator Rae  or  Senator Marriott. 
-Yes, but in a very mild way. It is left to the economic rationalist- I say that with respect- of the Opposition Parties,  Senator Cotton,  to raise objections to these matters. We have been accused of- I think the expression is- pork barrelling.  Senator Wright  is doing a lot of grumbling, which is customary of him at this hour of the night. I would like to remind him of a statement made by his leader,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, on the matter of the provision of help to Tasmania. I would like to read it to him. Perhaps he has not read it. It appeared in a handout by  Mr Fraser  on 1 8 April 1975, after the EZ grants, which of course are a matter of these appropriations and which the Opposition, if it wishes to make a great matter of principle about them, can reject, just as it can reject the grant under section 96 of the Constitution which is proposed in the matter of APPM. We will see whether the Opposition is prepared just to make a great matter of windy rhetoric about this or whether it is prepared to stand up and be counted. In any event  Mr Fraser  has made it quite clear that he is not prepared to stand up and be counted in opposition to the granting of assistance to the State of Tasmania. After all it is notorious that the Opposition has made a big play over the last year of its attempts to woo the voters of Tasmania. Undoubtedly on grounds of high principle the Opposition would not go in for any pork barrelling. It has never gone in for any pork barrelling in the past. 
It did not do so in relation to the apple juice subsidies or anything like that! Undoubtedly  Senator Wright, Senator Rae, Senator Marriott  and the other Opposition Senators from Tasmania will stand up in the Senate and reject the appropriations which embody these pork barrelling propositions in relation to the State of Tasmania.  Mr Fraser  is not quite so forthright A handout issued by him on 18 April reads: 
The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, last night dissociated the Opposition from the published remarks of  Mr Wentworth  MHR claiming that NSW and Victoria should not have to provide financial help to Tasmania and that NSW was becoming a bit tired of it. 

 Mr Fraser said that he understood  Mr Wentworth  's remarks were intended to be a criticism of the general ineptitude of the Tasmanian Labor Government. 
He said that the Opposition was totally committed to the federal principle of making additional grants to the smaller States and it had already committed itself to policies which will enable Tasmania to enjoy a standard of living equal to any other Australian State. He said: 'We recognise particular difficulties have faced the Tasmanian people which call for specific assistance by government. ' 
Some of our proposals for that assistance have recently been outlined in the Opposition policy package which I have recently reaffirmed '. 
Consideration interrupted. 
These grants are put on different bases. The particular one we are considering, the Electrolytic Zinc grant, is included in this Appropriation Bill. The Opposition, if it disapproves of this grant, can reject or amend the Bill. I believe that grants of this nature, which I regard as exceptional, in general should be the subject of a section 96 grant. That is the basis on which the Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd grant is made. A Bill will be introduced in the other House within the next week or so, it will come here and  Senator Greenwood  and the Opposition will have an opportunity to throw it out. I assume that opposition to the grant will be led by  Senator Wright.  It will not be a matter which will be, as it has been described, something secret and clandestine and under the lap. The Senate will have an opportunity to debate the matter and an opportunity to throw the matter out if it does not like it. I trust that is an answer which satisfies  Senator Greenwood. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
'Australia' is preferred because it is simpler; the governments of Canada and New Zealand no longer use their corresponding title 'Dominion'. 'Commonwealth' confuses English-speaking people connected with Britain or the United States, since the former now relate the word to the Commonwealth of Nations and the latter to the Commonwealth status formerly enjoyed by the Philippines, at present by Puerto Rico and prospectively by the Marianas. 
The main considerations leading to the Government's decision to use 'Australia' were stated by the Prime Minister on 20 October 1966 (House of Representatives Hansard, page 2048 ) when he spoke as Leader of the Opposition on the Extradition (Commonwealth Countries) Bill, the first bill in whose title the word 'Commonwealth' was used in the sense of 'Commonwealth of Nations': 
My proposition is that we should use none of the words "Australian", "Commonwealth", "Federal", or "National" unless they serve to identify or distinguish and that we should prefer the geographic term to the others, particularly to the term "Commonwealth". If it is desired to distinguish an Australian organisation from a foreign one or to identify it overseas as Australian, the best word is "Australian". "Federal" applies to many countries- for example, West Germany, India, the United States, Canada and Mexico. "National" applies to every country and "Commonwealth" promotes confusion with many international institutions- for instance, Commonwealth preference, Commonwealth War Graves Commission, Commonwealth Games, Commonwealth Law Conference and Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. If it is desired to distinguish a body responsible to the Australian Federal 
Government or Parliament from a body responsible to an Australian State Government or Parliament, the word "Australian" would again appear appropriate in all circumstances. "National" or "Federal are apt counterparts for the word "State" but do not encourage the States to distinguish between their own similarly titled instrumentalities by using their geographic description. ' 
A year earlier (House of Representatives Hansard, page 1976) Prime Minister Menzies had declared: 'I myself have been in the habit of referring to the "Australian Government" wherever 1 go. This is something I commend to all honourable members.' 
Lest the honourable senator is solicitous for the States in this matter of terminology I should reassure him that none of them use the word 'State' in their parliamentary notice papers, journals and Hansards. There are only two instances where any of them uses the. word 'State' in its official documents. First, there is the 'Government Gazette of the State of New South Wales'. There are, however, the 'Victoria Government Gazette', 'Queensland Government Gazette', The South Australian Government Gazette', 'Government Gazette of Western Australia' and 'Tasmanian Government Gazette'. (The 'Australian Government Gazette' succeeded in July 1973 the 'Commonwealth of Australia Gazette'). Secondly. South Australian statutes are enacted by 'the Governor of the State of South Australia, with the advice and consent of the Parliament thereof. The enactment clauses in the statutes of the other State Parliaments (and, since 1973, of the Australian Parliament) use the geographical name by itself. 
(a) In the case of Acts of the Parliament, and regulations and other instruments issued under the authority of those Acts, the necessary legislative provision is made by the Acts Interpretation Act 1901-1973 (see sections 17 (a) and 46(a)). 
Other changes have not required statutory authority. 
Under the Reserve Bank Act, the Reserve Bank of Australia is responsible for the Australian note issue, including the printing and issuing of the notes. In line with the Australian Government's preference that the term 'Australia' be used wherever practicable, the Reserve Bank adopted the revised wording. 
If the question is intended to refer only to the change on Australian bank notes, see the answer to question (3) above. If the question is intended to refer to other uses of the word 'Australia', the changes have been made by the various appropriate authorities to give effect to the general policy of the Australian Government that the word 'Commonwealth' should be avoided as far as possible in referring to Australian bodies. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Nineteen. 
Details of freight transported by Departmental vehicles to Darwin after Cyclone Tracy are as follows: 193 tonnes of galvanised iron ex Adelaide 300 tonnes of steel ex Alice Springs 15 tonnes of corrugated iron ex Rockhampton 25 tonnes of generators ex Adelaide 2 cranes ex Brisbane 2 trucks and1 cherry picker ex Sydney 1 5 tonnes of chlorine ex Sydney 250 mattresses ex Adelaide 1 vehicle load of ABC equipment ex Adelaide 
Due to the urgency of these operations and the prevailing disaster situation and its consequent effects, it would be most difficult to attempt to ascertain the time taken for each journey. 
The Minister for Defence has supplied the following information. 
It is not practicable to open the Woomera Range road for use by private hauliers. In the first place, the road, for much of its length, is an unsealed light access road for the instrumentation posts along the centre line of the range. It is vulnerable to rain damage, was not designed for heavy traffic and would quickly break up if used by heavy transport. Secondly, it is necessary to close the road even to departmental traffic at frequent intervals when trials are being conducted on the range. Closure is required for safety reasons and to prevent electromagnetic, dust or vibration interference to sensitive electronic and optical equipment in the instrumentation posts which the road services. It is expected that such interruptions would affect civilian traffic to the extent that the hauliers would not be in any better position than using the present public highway which is 40 miles longer. Thirdly there are considerations of defence security in respect of the classified trials and equipment on the range, and physical security of equipment at the posts beside the road which are unfenced and frequently unattended when not is use for particular trials. 
Special consideration has always been given to cases of genuine emergency. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Northern Territory Police for the year ended 30 June 1974. 
I support the principle of a fair system of wage indexation; but I hasten to add, as leading spokesmen for the Government have made clear in recent times, that such a system, if it is to be just and if it is to work, must be accompanied by some form of tax indexation. If we are to ask people, especially people on low incomes, to be content at least for a period with having their wages adjusted to meet rises in the cost of living, it is only reasonable that they should get all of that amount. Of course, that is not achieved unless there is some form of tax indexation. So, that is a package of which I personally am in favour. 
-There are various things wrong in the question asked by the honourable senator, including false allegations of falsehood in the advertisements in question. However, it is such a detailed question that I shall refer it to the Attorney-General and let the honourable senator have a detailed reply. 
There is a curious lack of cohesion, an odd absence of a constant theme, in what we have heard from the Opposition this afternoon. For example, I thought for a while that what Opposition members objected to most about this Government is that we are spending too much money. But then  speaker  after  speaker  rose to complain that we were not spending enough money.  Senator Jessop  had a complaint that we were not giving  $46,000  to some school in South Australia.  Senator Missen  wanted to know why we were not spending money on air conditioning in this place. It is as though these people live in a wilderness of single instances, all unrelated to the other. I should like them to spell out just what is their complaint about this Government. Are we spending too much, or are we not spending enough? I think it was left to  Senator Greenwood  to go a little bit further than any of the other speakers in distortion and misrepresentation. I refer especially to what has become one of his pet obsessions at the moment. I refer to what he said about the structural assistance scheme. Among the phrases that he used about the scheme was that it was 'wide open for patronage'. I should like to tell him a few things that perhaps those on his side of politics have not told him. I have received personal representations for a piece of this patronage from none other than his Leader,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, his ex-Leader,  Mr Snedden,  his present  Deputy  Leader,  Mr Lynch,  and a South Australian member named  Mr Giles.  I think  Senator Young  will recall that he has asked me to use my offices to advance some representations for somebody in South Australia. 
If it is so awful, why does the honourable senator not boycott it? 
-The honourable senator acknowledges that he is also interested in what  Senator Greenwood  chooses to call the 'pork barrel'. I might mention that  Mr Lynch  was successful in his representations on behalf of a business in his electorate for a grant, as was  Mr Giles.  These gentlemen, in making their representations to me, did not express any horror - 
All right, but in the other cases they were representations for grants under the various structural assistance schemes sponsored by the Government. As I said last night, I made a rough total the other day as to how the money had been handed out under one of these loathed schemes, the SANMA scheme. SANMA is an acronym for Special Assistance to Non-Metropolitan Areas. I came up with the figures that  69  per cent of the money distributed in these grants has gone to electorates held by Opposition members and  3 1  per cent to enterprises in electorates held by Labor members. So if there is any patronage in these grants, it seems that it is going mostly to our political opponents. As I have just illustrated, they are most anxious to get on any gravy train that may be around. Of course, as I also said last night, the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser,  went out of his way publicly to rebuke a member of his Party,  Mr Wentworth,  for complaining about this Government's generosity to the State of Tasmania.  Mr Fraser  said in a special Press release that he repudiated and dissociated himself from any suggestion that the Australian Government should not be giving special grants to the State of Tasmania. So much for the sincerity of the claims by the Opposition that there is something furtive, secret or reeking of patronage in this scheme. 
Insofar as  Senator Greenwood  did have a point, it was that when we did not introduce these schemes under the umbrella of some special legislation we in some way were depriving the Opposition or the people of Australia of the benefits of accountability. But there is nothing secret about anything that we do. All of these matters will appear in appropriation Bills. Members of the Opposition will be able to ask questions about them. Details of every payment made under the Regional Employment Development scheme, for instance, will be available to any members of the Opposition when the time comes to be querying the manner in which the Government has expended its money. In other words, we are, as we always have claimed to be, an open Government which will account to the Parliament and to the people for everything we spend. 
The proposition that we do not need some sort of structural assistance scheme is tantamount to condemning this country forever to an antiquated system of protection which grew up ad hoc over the years under a series of LiberalCountry Party governments. We believe that there is a need for tariff reform and for a revision of our protection system in this country. As anybody knows, such measures hurt somebody. If we are to say that a government has to avoid the political flak which inevitably results from closing down certain plants and from putting people out of work, that is another way of saying that the status quo has to last forever because governments cannot afford to take the political pain involved in the sort of changes I am talking about. If we are to have the sort of structural change that I am advocating we also have to have assistance for people and companies hurt by such a program. 
The fact that we have to have schemes such as the RED scheme is a measure, I confess, of the fact that the economy is in difficulties; but I do not see any reason to apologise for the RED scheme. Here again we get this sort of inconsistency from our opponents. We get the constant complaint that we are rearing a generation that does not know work and that will never want to work, because we are over-generous with our social security payments. On the other hand, when we come up with a scheme that involves people working if they want to get paid, which is the essence of the RED scheme, there also is something wrong with that. Obviously there is no way in which this Government can please the Opposition. Every scheme we come up with will displease  Senator Greenwood.  He will say that it is secret when it is open. He will complain that it is not covered by legislation when in effect it will appear in an appropriation Bill. 
Of course,  there  are even some on the Opposition side who seem to misapprehend our schemes altogether, such as  Senator Scott  who suggested that the RED scheme in some way ignored the needs of local councils. If he examined the RED scheme a little more he would know that many of the grants under it- in fact a majority of them- are made to local councils. We, of course, claim the right to specify that the sort of use that will be made of the funds we make available under the RED scheme will have a high labour content. Is there anything sinister in that in a period when people are out of work? The suggestion that in some way we are bypassing the local government bodies because of some mad desire to exercise all the power from Canberra just will not stand up. 
If we are having this wide ranging survey of what the Government's economic policies are about instead of directing our minds to what we should be considering in these Supply Bills, I would like to leave those few thoughts with honourable senators opposite. We would be greatly assisted if they would develop some theme in their debate and if they would, above all else, tell us whether we are doing too much, whether we are spending too much, or whether we are spending too little. Above all, I ask them to come up with some positive schemes as to how we should better deploy our resources, instead of engaging in this destructive, negative, non-stop attempt to drag down everything that the Government is trying to do. We would appreciate a little bit of thought from the  Senator Greenwoods  and the  Senator Wrights  as to how they would propose to cure the ills of this country. We would love to know  Senator Wright's  view on the cure for inflation, for example; but all we get from him is a series of grumbles that do not advance the debate any further. So I suggest to honourable senators opposite that we would be better employed in our continued discussion of these Supply Bills if we were to be given a little of the benefit of their wisdom as well. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The second reading speech on this Bill has been delivered in the other place and I ask for leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
I am advised that there is no foundation whatsoever for the malicious slanders concerning these 2 public figures. I am advised that there is no such petitionfiled in the Victorian Supreme Court or in any court in Australia. The alleged petitioner has said that there is no such petition and that there will not be any such petition involving these 2 public figures or either of them. He has said that there is no basis for the slanders concerning them. I will not mention their names as that would only give an opportunity to others to do further damage to them. 
I am advised that in the case of one of these public figures a newspaper, the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph', actually sent a reporter to inform his wife in his absence that her husband had been named as co-respondent in such divorce petition and ask for her reaction. When she expressed her disbelief the reporter assured her it was a fact and it would be in the news. The behaviour of this newspaper must be an all-time low in an unwarranted invasion of privacy. 
I am astonished at the way in which a rumour, once it starts, can persist despite denials and despite statements of fact. There has never been any intention on the part of the Government or Nissan or Toyota or Chrysler to manufacture a new motor car. The plan about which the Government has talked is to attempt to get Nissan, Toyota and Chrysler- I may mention that other manufacturers have also expressed interest- to make a 4-cylinder engine, not to manufacture a motor car. The announcement of tentative plans by both Toyota and Nissan to commence local production has raised questions, such as the one asked by  Senator Carrick,  as to how the small Australian market can be supplied economically with an increased rather than a reduced number of manufacturers. I stress that what we are talking about is an engine, not a new motor car. I can assure the honourable senator and anybody else who is interested in this subject that the entry of Japanese companies would be compatible with the Government's objectives of product rationalisation and improved resource allocation, provided their operations involved the use of existing under-used facilities for the production of components, particularly engines. The Japanese companies are well aware that any proposals for entry into local manufacture will be carefully assessed against the Government's objectives for the industry, including the desirability of some form of Australian Government participation. I might mention finally that we are particularly interested to see the underutilised foundry at Lonsdale in South Australia involved in any such plans for the manufacture of a. 4-cylinder engine. 
It has come as quite a surprise to me to find out how many readers the 'Australian Women's Weekly' has in this place. Most Australian Legal Aid Offices are opening outside normal business hours, staffed by officers who are employed in the Attorney-General's Department. Offices open between eight in the morning and six at night, and are staffed by staggering hours of attendance. That is considered necessary because the people for whom this service caters will quite frequently have to avail themselves of the service outside their normal hours of work. Some offices are opening later, usually on one night during the week, and overtime is paid to legal officers and administrative staff involved but not to senior legal officers and above. Approval is being sought to pay overtime to senior legal officers and above. Offices of the Legal Aid Office are not staffed by private practitioners after hours. 
I have received a deputation representing the management of the Email factory at Orange, which is in some difficulty and where there is a threat of a lay-off of some employees. I am considering proposals to relieve the situation there, but I have not yet reached any decided view as to whether any of the structural adjustment schemes or any other schemes of the Government, which schemes have come in for so much criticism from the Opposition, are apposite for the solution of this problem. If it is decided to give some assistance to Email Ltd to keep its employees in their jobs, I shall be very interested in the subsequent reaction of the Opposition. 
I do not know the answer to the questions asked by the honourable senator but I shall take up this matter and let him have the information as soon as possible. 
I will refer the honourable senator's question to the Minister and let the honourable senator have an early reply. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the second report of the Australian Legal Aid Review Committee dated March 1975. 
It is true that there have been increases in the prices of motor cars in the past few months and that more rises are forecast. I suppose we cannot forecast accurately what those rises will be until the outcome of the present round of wage applications and especially the outcome of the metal wage case emerge. However, I have seen many reports recently in the Press, and reports have been made to my Department, that forward orders for passenger vehicles have levelled off and in some cases have fallen since the market recovery which began in February. There is no firm evidence at this stage to establish that this is happening. Actual sales, as measured by registrations, continue at a satisfactory level. Of course, it must be remembered that today's sales are the result of orders taken some time ago. Some falling away from the sales peak reached in February and March is bound to occur because, undoubtedly due to the inducement offered by the partial remission of sales tax, there was a certain amount of forward ordering. The important question which no one can answer at present is: How severe will the reduction be? 
I think it would be incorrect to ascribe too much importance to the gradual increases in sales tax towards their former level which is now occurring in monthly steps of 2 te per cent on passenger vehicles and 2 per cent on commercial vehicles. The companies themselves have increased prices several times since 29 January because of cost increases unconnected with sales tax. Sustained recovery in the industry will depend on a general recovery in the economy but I stress that the difficulties, if they can be substantiated, in which the motor industry finds itself at present are not to be ascribed even mainly to the fact that the remission of sales tax is progressively being removed but primarily to increases in the price of motor cars. However, the Government is keeping the general state of the motor car industry under constant review. As a matter of fact, I will be seeing the managing director of one of the larger manufacturers tomorrow. I saw the Managing Director of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd last week and I expect that I will be seeing the Manager of Chrysler Australia Ltd in the near future. It is not a matter about which the Government feels any complacency and we will, as I said, be keeping the matter under constant review. 
Yes. 
I will take up the matter again with the Attorney-General and let the honourable senator have a reply. 
-Yes, I have read the story on the front page of the 'Australian '. Honourable senators will note that if it is read carefully it is apparent that the writer of the story had no knowledge of the contents of any document containing the submissions which the Government will put to the Prices Justification Tribunal but that he has merely extrapolated from a letter written by the Prime Minister to the Prices Justification Tribunal on 12 November last and from remarks made in the House of Representatives yesterday by the Treasurer on the general question of the profitability of companies. The precise details of the Government's submission will be known to honourable senators and the public generally, I hope, within the next few days because it is expected that counsel representing the Australian Government will be called on within that time. I think I should confine myself at this stage to saying that the submission does not go beyond suggesting to the Tribunal a general approach which it might make when applications are made for a rise in prices based on the desirability of maintaining profitability. The Government regards this as a most important case and it wants to give all the assistance that it can to the Tribunal in reaching a proper decision. In addition to the general submissions indicating the approach which the Government believes the Tribunal should take, it also places before the Tribunal certain factual material which is probably available only to the Government. 
-Yes, my attention has been drawn to the remarks referred to by the honourable senator. The Government, of course, is very much aware that most of the business enterprises in this country are small. I suppose it all depends on your definition of small', but the Government took as a reasonable cut off point the employment of 100 persons. It is undoubtedly true that business enterprises in Australia in that category account for a great deal of the business activity in the country, and that the small business sector plays a vital role in the economy. The Government also acknowledges that small businesses face special problems because of their size. Because of these special problems, the Government has taken the initiative to set up the National Small Business Bureau which is paying special attention to the problems and needs of small businesses, including such areas as the adequacy of finance facilities available to them. 
In this regard, it is interesting to recall that the previous Government, we assume, was also aware of the problems of small business because as long ago as 1968 the Liberal-Country Party Government decided to set up a committee of experts to report on the matter. That report was completed and dated June 1971 but was not published, issued, presented to Parliament or made available for discussion by the previous Government between then and when it went out of office at the end of 1 972. Recently I opened the first 2 regional offices of the Small Business Bureau in Sydney and Perth. They are pilot propositions. The Government intends to see how their services are availed of, and if there appears to be an adequate demand for their services they will be extended to other vital centres throughout the country. Recent inquiries I made indicate that there has been a very promising response to the setting up of these facilities and that their advice and counsel is being availed of by a large number of small businessmen. 
The Government also recognises that there is discrimination against small firms. To help counter this discrimination we initiated measures in the Trade Practices Act to prohibit price discrimination. The Government is confident that the small businessman does not want to be treated as a privileged or preferred sector or to be subsidised. He wants a fair go which will enable him to perform adequately his vital role in the economic system, and this Government has acted to see that he gets a fair go. 
In answer to the last part of the honourable senator's question, I readily assent to the proposition that justice delayed is justice denied. As to whether it has been delayed in this case, I am not sufficiently informed of the facts to be able to tell him. However, I will make inquiries of the Minister involved and let the honourable senator have a reply as soon as possible. 
-The Prices Justification Tribunal granted some rises. I do not know the precise figures relating to the increase in sales but  I  know they are of the order mentioned by  Senator Gietzelt.  I also know that it has been acknowledged by the manufacturers and the dealers that this improvement in sales, this moving of the accumulated stocks, is due entirely to the measures taken by the Australian Government. By the way, it is curious in this regard to note that the 'Sydney Morning Herald', which has been mentioned in other contexts here today, assailed these measures as amounting to a denial to the consumer of the right to have a car of his choice and at the same time complained about the possibility of unemployment in the motor car manufacturing industry. 
As to the question of the price of cars, on the occasions when  I  have raised this matter with the manufacturers, with whom  I  am in constant contact,  I  have always been met with the rejoinder that increases in costs prevent them from making any reduction in prices. As the Government has no access to the books of those companies or of their parents,  I  have no way of testing the accuracy of these assertions. 
On 5 March 1975,  Senator Georges  asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General the following question, without notice: 
I direct the attention of the Minister representing the Attorney-General to an editorial in the 'Australian Financial Review of 4 March 1975 which appears to indicate that the Trade Practices Act is being used to inhibit public discussion on matters of public interest. I ask him: Does the Trade Practices Act place as sub judice any matter relating to an application by a firm to the Trade Practices Commission? Will he clearly state whether this is desirable? If it is not desirable, what action will be taken to prevent firms from making mischievous applications in order to protect their own interests? ' 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I refer to my reply to  Senator Georges  on 5 March 1975 at the end of which I stated: 
Therefore, I intend to draw this matter to the attention of the Attorney-General and to ask him whether the Act needs amendment in order to put the intention of section 162 (e) beyond all doubt.' 
I have now received the following advice from the Attorney-General- 
I have considered the matter and concluded that the Trade Practices Act 1 974 does not need amendment in this regard. 
The question that arises is not whether the Trade Practices Act makes any matters pending before the Trade Practices Commission sub judice, but whether the rules as to contempt of court which are made applicable by sub-section 162 (e) have the effect of prohibiting any discussion relating to a pending matter. 
The law of contempt of court applied by this sub-section is the same law as is applied to every court of record. The Trade Practices Commission is not placed in any special position. 
Under the law of contempt of court, public comment on a matter that is before the courts is not of itself contempt of court. Contempt of court is not involved unless the comment is of such a kind and made in such circumstances as to have the effect of interfering with the proper administration of justice. The risk of interfering with the proper administration of justice must be a real one. These principles do not prohibit reasonable comment concerning matters pending in the courts and I do not expect difficulties with the application of these principles to the Trade Practices Commission. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have my second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
I thought it had been. I have seen it and I had assumed that it had been circulated. If it has not, I will repair the omission as soon as possible. 
Question resolved in affirmative. 
-Mr Frank Monte has been interviewed by the Australian Police regarding advertisments in the Sydney Press for bodyguards for work in security teams overseas. He has also been in contact by letter with the Chief Commissioner of the Australian Police as to whether he could be in breach of Australian law in acting as agent for a person who desires to interview suitable persons to engage in this work in a Middle East country as a security adviser. The question as to whether a breach of the law might be involved has been referred to officers of the Attorney-General 's Department. I might say  Mr Monte  has not had any further contact with his client at this stage. 
I regret that I have not given  Senator Carrick  a full copy of the speech I delivered to the Harvard Club on Friday night last. I will repair that omission as soon as I leave this chamber. If he had read the entire speech he would have said that what I was advocating was precisely the opposite of what he suggested. I said that this is not the moment for a wholesale reduction of tariffs. I also made out a thesis, very carefully documented I thought and soberly argued, that - 
-No, I was not fully reported. I will repair any misconceptions  Senator Carrick  formed by letting him have the speech in full. The thesis I set out was that structural adjustment in Australian industry is eminently desirable but that if social disruption is to be avoided this sort of change effected by the tariff has to be introduced gradually and with plenty of forethought as to the disruption of human lives and resources which may be involved. In other words, as I pointed out, the chances of genuine lasting tariff reform in a period of recession like the present one are nil and it is not until we have industry back on its feet that we can contemplate a wide-ranging review of the tariff with the aim of having a more rational use of physical, human and capital resources. A careful reading of the speech- I will let  Senator Carrick  or any other member of the 
Opposition who wishes to read it have a copywill show that tariff reform as a weapon of structural adjustment is something which has to be undertaken carefully, gradually and with an eye to the human disruption that may be involved. There is no such disruption or no such plan involved in the immediate future. 
I had not intended to intervene in this debate, but I was more or less challenged to do so by  Senator Carrick  whom, I may say with respect, I regard as a serious, intelligent and admirable senator. However I fear that his long standing as the holder of the position of Leader of the Liberal machine in New South Wales induces in him, in a debate such as this, a line of argument in which I fear he does not even believe. There is a sort of selective indignation, a sort of ersatz holiness in what he puts to us in his argument. Let us take, for example, the last argument that he was putting, that is that in New South Wales for many years we had a Labor government which was dedicated to the gerrymander. I would be the last to deny that charge. I think that for many years the dice were loaded against, not to put too fine a point on it, the conservative forces in New South Wales. I think there was a long period in which a Labor government, by one device or another, sought to perpetuate its rule. I think the same happened in Queensland. I think during the long period of Labor government in Queensland there was an unconscionable gerrymander. 
-And in Western Australia. Are we not in an era in which we would like to put paid to that situation? 
I will come to that. There is no excuse for a gerrymander, no matter who engineers it. In New South Wales there was an unconscionable gerrymander for many years, engineered and defended by the Labor Party. In Queensland the same thing happened- a gerrymander engineered and defended by the Labor Party. In South Australia there was probably the most unconscionable gerrymander in the history of almost any so-called democratic government in the world. In Queensland at present a gerrymander has the effect of giving to the people of an admirable State- a State with all sorts of delightful peoplethe name 'deep northerners'. There is a blot on everybody who comes from Queensland because they are represented by a hillbilly Premier who is elected by 17 per cent or 18 per cent of the population. 
Every gerrymander, no matter who is responsible, casts a blot on the country, the State or the community which is responsible for it. I was astonished to hear  Senator Carrick,  thrown back on the ropes by an interjection from  Senator McLaren,  defending the gerrymanders, or at least being silent about them, which favour his Party- the terrible gerrymander in Queensland at present- 
-And in Victoria. He was defending them on the basis that the Labor side of politics had been responsible for defending or engineering gerrymanders in the past. 
Exactly. As my learned colleague,  Senator Wheeldon  points out to me, it is the tu quoque argument in logic: You did it, so we are justified in doing it. I am ashamed- I say it publicly- of every gerrymander with which my Party has been associated. I do not think  Senator Carrick  is entitled to throw a comforting umbrella over the gerrymanders which he now defends because of the sins of the Labor Party in the past. I suggest that his slurs on the mapmakers and his irrelevant comments on the bad practices of my Party in the past are no defence against gerrymanders of today. I think we have entered an era in which we who are really devoted to having the voice of the people heard should publicly condemn all gerrymanders. I did not hear, for instance, any comment by  Senator Carrick  on the fact that in  1953  or  1954-1  am not quite certain of the date- when  Dr Evatt  was Leader of the Labor Party, it polled something like  53  per cent or  54  per cent - 
-The historical fact is that the Labor Party polled  53  per cent of the vote throughout Australia in  1953  or  1954  but did not become the Government. 
It is irrelevant whether you did. I want to be fair. As I have said, with respect, I think  Senator Carrick  was forced, in the heat of parliamentary debate into the argumentation that he adopted. I honestly think, knowing him as I do, he does not in his heart defend a gerrymander. 
I know. I suggest that our approach to this problem of redistribution at this moment in history should not be clouded by the sins of either Party in the past. Let us try to be fair now. Let us not throw some childish argument at each other: You did this in Queensland, we did this in South Australia, you did that in Victoria, therefore that is what politics is about and we should not try to improve our political manners. I think it is time we grew up and adopted different standards. 
In reply I will be quite brief in summing up this debate. I am very grateful that the level of the debate was raised in the latter stages by the contributions of  Senator Chaney, Senator Missen, Senator Bonner  and 

 Senator Rae. I think that we got into the doldrums, that we got on to a fairly low level, when  Senator Sheil  and  Senator Wood,  I am afraid I have to say, were discussing this matter; but I think that the debate has been brought back to the appropriate level by the last speakers for the Opposition. I know that it is always a bit embarrassing for one's political opponents to be praised from this side of the chamber but I must say that in my dealings with  Senator Missen  and  Senator Chaney,  especially on the committees with which I have been involved with them, I have become accustomed to a very high level of involvement in the issues which we were discussing: If I may say so, with respect, I thought that the contribution made by  Senator Missen  tonight was on a very high level and expressed all the aspirations which we on this side of the chamber have for this Bill. 
I think that I have to deal briefly with some of the objections that have been raised, especially by  Senator Greenwood  who, among other things, expressed some doubts as to the constitutionality of the Bill. As is well known, this Bill introduces into Australian law obligations contained in the International Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination.  Senator Greenwood  quite correctly pointed out that in 1966 the Liberal Government, which preceded the present Government, supported this Convention before the United Nations. As he said,  Senator Greenwood  supports this Bill. Varying degrees of support for this Bill have emanated from the Opposition.  Senator Greenwood  supports the Bill with qualifications.  Senator Wright,  who has not contributed to the debate, opposes the Bill by grunts.  Senator- Missen, Senator Chaney  and  Senator Bonner  have expressed quite eloquent and quite moving support for the Bill. I should like to deal briefly with the legal caveat that  Senator Greenwood  places on the constitutionality of the Bill. He pointed out that it is based on the defence power given under placitum (xxix) of section 5 1 of the Constitution, and he expressed certain reservations. 
I am sorry, the external affairs power.  Senator Greenwood  expressed certain reservations as to the dangers of this sort of extension of the Commonwealth power. I think that  Senator Greenwood  's objection or fears about the constitutionality of the Bill have to be adverted to. He expressed the fears that have been sometimes expressed by conservatives in the country about this business of using the external affairs power to adopt 
United Nations conventions and thereby to introduce new elements into our law.  Senator Greenwood  said that he feared that these conventions could be used to override virtually all the provisions of the Constitution simply to give effect to obligations which have been made with small and relatively insignificant neighbours. He expressed this view:   . . The Bill would be challenged in due course before the High Court of Australia. If it is challenged it will provide the opportunity for which many people have been waiting when the scope of the external affairs power may be the subject of a judicial delineation. 
I do not take that expression of opinion by  Senator Greenwood  as indicating any real reservations about the basis of this Bill or the desirability of the principles of this Bill becoming law, but it does give expression to an opinion sometimes voiced by lawyers that the foreign affairs power, especially in relation to treaties and conventions, could be abused. There is another passage in  Senator Greenwood's  speech which suggests that we could enter into some snide arrangement with some unimportant country and in that way override all of the provisions of the Constitution. 1 do not think  Senator Greenwood  is really serious about this. I suggest that  Senator Greenwood  would have sufficient confidence in the good sense of the High Court to know that any abuse of the foreign affairs placitum in the Constitution would be subject to the scrutiny of the judges of the High Court. We do not really have to fear that some subterfuge would be used by any government to enlarge the powers of the Federal Parliament in the way in which he suggests. In any event, as suggested in the passage that I have quoted, if there is any doubt about the constitutionality of this Bill we can confidently leave it to the High Court to decide the matter. I am sure that  Senator Greenwood  would agree with me that we do not have anything to fear in regard to the impartiality of the High Court in deciding the limitations of the foreign affairs power in this regard. 
I turn to another of the criticisms which  Senator Greenwood  made of this Bill. He said, in what I found to be a quite refreshing passage, that much as he dislikes communists, much as he dislikes fascists, he respects their right to disseminate ideas. It was very refreshing to find  Senator Greenwood  in this unfamiliar, Voltairian role. The appropriate passage from Voltaire was quoted by  Senator Missen.  Voltaire said: 
I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it. 
Some honourable senators might find that to be an odd comment from  Senator Greenwood  whose comments on other matters would have suggested that he would not have been nearly so tolerant of dissident opinions as he has said in this debate he is. We on this side of the chamber applaud his conversion to libertarian views. We trust that we will hear more of this enlightened view from him when he speaks on other legislation that comes before the chamber. 
-Senator Greenwood did, did he? 
I am grateful for those reminders from the other side of the chamber. I give  Senator Greenwood  full credit for his glorious past, but we on this side, judging him from his more recent history, could have been forgiven for thinking that he did not have quite such a liberal view. As I say, I do not know what  Senator Greenwood  stood for in 1951 or 1952. 
I will go back as far as the honourable senator likes. It is totally irrelevant to what we are talking about, but I take  Senator Greenwood's  comment to mean that my past will not stand all that much examination. I am prepared to have my past submitted to the closest scrutiny and to admit that I have espoused extreme views which I no longer hold. But I feel that I have moved from what might be calledilliberalism to an enlightened view. I fear, judging from what I have heard from  Senator Greenwood,  that his movement, intellectually, rationally and emotionally, has not been forward but sadly has been backward. I am glad to know that there was a time when he held enlightened views. I would love to be provided with any documentary evidence- any writings, any record- of a time when  Senator Greenwood  was a general liberal. I appeal to honourable senators opposite to provide me with such documentary evidence. 
In any event, I got an impression in listening to  Senator Greenwood  in this debate that he was a reluctant supporter of a Bill to outlaw racial discrimination, and I hasten to add that I am not attempting to overstate the case. I do not for one moment believe that  Senator Greenwood  is in favour of racial discrimination. I believe that his innate conservatism induces him to oppose any interference with the status quo. A careful examination of his speech during the second reading debate reveals that his motivation really is that this is a Bill which alters the status quo. He says, in effect, that you cannot legislate to change human conduct. Of course, nobody on this side of the chamber believes that you can legislate to change human conduct. There would not be a person in the chamber who would believe that the most detailed, careful statute could, for instance, turn  Senator Wright  into anything but what he is. There is no way legislatively of turning a brontosaurus into a human being. 
It is possible, but not by legislation.  Senator Greenwood,  restraining himself as best he could and doing his best not to line up with a Neanderthal wing of his Party, as represented by  Senator Sheil  and, I am sorry to say,  Senator Wood,  used a softer term. He talked about exacerbating tensions. He suggested that if this Bill were passed we would be exacerbating tensions. I have been reminded by my Whip that this is not a subject that we want to pursue indefinitely, no matter how much  Senator Wright  might like to grunt on into the night with his Neanderthal objection to our policy. I will content myself with closing the debate on that note, and I look forward to having a detailed examination of the measure in Committee. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable Senator's question: 
16. 
Arena, R, 24 April 1974; Barron, M. P., 15 February 1974; Berndt, D. C, 16 January 1974; Bowne, A., 19 February 1974; Calomeris, J., 14 March 1974; Csernik, F., 2 1 January 1975; Cujes, J., 13 March 1975; French, K. A., 29 January 1974; Fuller, J., 2 August 1973; Lovasz, C, 8 May 1974; Morosi, J., 18 January 1974; Mullins, P. H., 7 February 1975; Oakes, V., 24 July 1973; Solo, M., 29 January 1975; Stern, I., 1 February 1974; *Waters, B., 25 July 1974. 

 Mrs Waters moved to Sydney after appointment. 
Rhodesia:  Mr J.  D. O'Donnell's Passport 
The answer to the last point raised by  Senator Greenwood  is no, I do not. It is interesting to note that only Sweden and Uruguay have made a declaration in terms of 
Article 14. The Netherlands has also made a partial declaration applying, inter alia, in respect of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Europe. No decision has yet been made as to whether Australia will make a declaration. This is a matter which we do not take lightly but which we will take under consideration in the light of the manner in which this Act works once it becomes law. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 16A. 
That is a commonsensical comment, but the courts are not quite as obtuse as many non-lawyers think. This would be a matter of evidence. I am not suggesting that, in order to be in the clear, a landlord or publican would have to produce a written document to his barman saying expressly: 'You shall not indulge in certain practices'. It will be a matter of interpretation of evidence by the relevant court. 
Consideration interrupted. 
I can assure the honourable senator that I raised exactly that question in the inner councils of our 
Party within the last couple of days. I have every hope that that project will be revived and that he will soon see the Bill. 
The answer is yes. I move the following amendment: 
In sub-clause (3), leave out 'or members of the Council or to make regulations under this Act', substitute 'or to make regulations under this Act and the power of the AttorneyGeneral to appoint members of the Council '. 
The amendment is necessary as a result of an error in the original drafting of the Bill. It had been wrongly assumed that members of the Community Relations Council were to be appointed by the Governor-General, when in fact they are to be appointed by the AttorneyGeneral. It is purely a machinery amendment. I would anticipate that there would be no objection to it. 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman, I understand  Senator Greenwood  has indicated -of course this attitude was expressed in the vote at the second reading stage- that the Opposition does not oppose this Bill, but it is becoming increasingly obvious that  Senator Greenwood  accepts the Bill with great reluctance. 

 -What Senator Greenwood has just said is really a captious objection. He is saying, in effect, that even if we pass this Bill, even if we ratify this Conventionof course, we have to pass the Bill in order to ratify the Convention- we will still be subject to international criticism. There is no question about that. Every country of every ideology has the right to criticise the conduct of another country. We will not escape any slurs about racist conduct in Australia merely by passing this Bill. Every nation which believes that it has a superior morality or a superior legal code to ours- no matter how misguided it may be- will still obviously claim the right to criticise Australia, even if we pass this Bill. 
The International Committee which is set up more or less to police this Convention has, as part of its charter, to consider questions as to whether countries which ratify the Convention are really complying with the spirit of the Convention. It has the power to deal with matters of complaint- the sort of matters about which  Senator Greenwood  was talking- after it has been ascertained that all available domestic remedies have been invoked and exhausted. That means that the constitutional limitations, the general juristic limitations, on our power to deal with racial discrimination in this country will be considered by that Committee in considering as a result of complaints whether we have complied with the terms of the Convention. 
Of course, the fact that there is a man named Perkins who has gone from this country and has used all methods of propaganda to criticise Australia is quite beside the point which we are considering. The fact that we are attempting to deal with matters of racial discrimination in this country does not affect the fact that people who consider themselves to be aggrieved by our laws will avail themselves of their freedom to criticise us.  Senator Cavanagh  amply answered a question on the activities of  Mr Perkins  during question time a day or so ago. We abhor the conduct of  Mr Perkins  in availing himself of a Commonwealth grant and then going and using the world forum to criticise the country which gave him that benefit. I think I should fall back on a comment which  Senator Greenwood  made in his speech in the second reading debate, which I refer to as his Voltairean stance: He may abhor somebody's opinions but he defends to the death his right to express them. If we are to appear in the eyes of the world as a country which abhors racial discrimination, and which does what it can to eliminate racial discrimination, we just have to cop it sweet, to use a good old Australian expression. When  Mr Perkins  goes abroad at Government expense and tells the world that we are a racist society, I think we do something to advance our cause as a non-racist society if we allow  Mr Perkins-  we have not got much choice anyway- to say what he likes about us. A nonracist society or a society which is trying to eliminate racial discrimination is, I suggest, a society which can stand such criticism and which can say: 'We stand on our record and we are doing what we can to eliminate racial discrimination. ' But  Mr Perkins,  the signatories to this Convention and the rest of the world can go before whatever forum is available to them and still call us racist; we will be judged by our performance. 
The Government does not feel strongly about this amendment, but I would like to give some logical sort of explanation of the stand we take. Our attitude is that the remedies which should be available in this proposed statute primarily should be civil remedies. I think the whole purport of the Bill is that there is a minimum of criminal penalties provided. The suggestion is that in this field incitement is a lesser offence than the actual committing of the offence. I am not using the word offence' in a technical legal sense. In general 1 suppose it would be conceded by anybody that to murder a man is a more serious crime than to incite somebody to murder a man. That may be arguable. It seems that there is some dispute among the lawyers about it. The fact that they have some doubt about it highlights the dilemma that we face here. What is the greater offence in the field of racial discrimination? 
I take the worst historical example that we have had in recent history, the example of Nazi Germany. It must be obvious to anybody looking at the history of the worst excesses of the Nazis that in the hearts of a large section of the German people were deep seated atavistic passions of hatred for the Jewish people. Not only that; there were obvious manifestations of it every day. Discrimination was practised by people infected with the anti-semitic virus. In this Bill we attempt to strike against such attitudes by imposing civil remedies for those who are the  victims of  such practices. But surely it is something a little more heinous than harbouring those civil passions to actively incite people to indulge their prejudices. I suppose that if I sought an analogy I could take the question of drugs. It is commonly accepted that it is far more heinous to be a pedlar of drugs than to be a user of drugs. I would put the inciter of racial prejudice in an analogous position of that of the pedlar of drugs, as against the man who harbours the racial poison of antisemitism or anti-colour. This is the thinking behind the inclusion of clause 29, which the Opposition proposes to excise. 
The reason why the Opposition is moving to insert new clause 16A is to place among the civil offences what it is removing as a criminal offence. I do not see anything illogical or inconsistent in the proposition that it is more evil to incite to racial discrimination than to practise acts of racial discrimination. That is our thinking behind this. Also, there is the technical matter that the Convention does require us to make incitement to racial discrimination a criminal offence. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Clause 17 (Liability of principals and employers). 
I can understand  Senator Greenwood's  anxiety. Anybody who has practised as a lawyer is anxious about any reversal of the accepted onus of proof in matters of contravention of the law; but I think it would be easy to get carried away with addiction to this principle. After all, we are not dealing here with criminal offences; we are dealing with a matter for which there is a civil remedy and, as a matter of practicality, it is very difficult to see how what we are seeking to achieve in this clause could be achieved without this reversal of the ordinary onus. 
Let me give an example to illustrate what I am talking about. Take the case of a barman in a hotel who takes it upon himself to refuse to serve an Aborigine or a man from a country in the far north. I am seeking an example of the people who threaten our way of life. I am thinking of someone from a country such as Malaysia or Vietnam- the people about whom some of our citizens feel some paranoia. Suppose the barman said, as this man walked in and asked for a schooner, or even a glass of lemonade, 'No, we do not serve people like you'- and one can imagine the colourful terms that some of our barmen use. It could be said that this was just an expression of prejudice on the part of the barman, but the case might be that the barman in this hotel was under general riding instructions from the proprietor of the hotel to this effect: 'We do not have those so-and-so's in this pub.' A complaint against the barman would have no effect. The complaint really is against the policy of that hotel. If there is to be any remedy for people who want to drink in that hotel they have to have the practice of the hotel reversed. Unless the proprietor of the hotel can be brought to book for practices which he has instructed his barmen to put into effect, no remedies are available to the people who are victimised by the practice. 
-This is a delicate matter of law, as pointed out by  Senator Greenwood.  In a criminal sense, there is a heavier onus to prove in the case in point that it was the publican who told the barman to act in a certain way. It seems to me to be a not unreasonable onus if this is to be workable at all. Surely every publican would be able to say: 'This is not my policy. I just happen to have a racist barman. I just happen to have a bloke out there in the public bar who just does not happen to like Aborigines. It is nothing to do with me'. Every day an Aboriginal could come into the hotel and be refused a drink by this barman or another barman. This practice could go on for ever and the matter would never be remedied. If a publican does not have such a policy and if he does not mind having Aborigines drinking in his hotel he could come along to the court and say, in accordance with this provision: 'This was none of my doing. This was the independent act of my barman'. In the absence of countervailing evidence he would be believed and would not be penalised. But if the practice went on day after day and month after month the capacity of that publican to raise this defence would, as a matter of practice, be eroded. 
As a way of making the remedies that we propose practicable I suggest that this reversal of onus is eminently reasonable. The publican who had not instructed his barman to refuse to serve Aborigines and who had reprimanded his barman and told him to reverse that practice would surely be in the clear before the law, but if this practice went on and on he would not be able to discharge the mild onus that I suggest is provided in this clause. As a lawyer I share  Senator Greenwood's  general mistrust of the reversal of onus, but as a practical matter I do not believe that we would be able to make this Bill work unless we had the reversal of onus for which this clause provides. 
I should like to draw to the attention of  Senator Greenwood  that if clauses 28 and 29, against which the Opposition proposes to vote, are deleted, as would appear probable, he should look at whether clause 27 at least in its present form should survive in the Bill. Perhaps the first words 'Except as expressly provided by this Part' might be deleted. 
I agree that it is purely consequential and have no opposition to the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
As I was saying, I believe that the solution to this problem lies in the setting up by the Parliament itself of some form of assistance. I think there should be draftsmen outside the Office of Parliamentary Counsel who would fulfil the task suggested by this amendment. I think that there is no more over-worked section of the Public Service than the Parliamentary Counsel. If there were a genuine case for asserting that Opposition members and private members had not been receiving an appropriate or adequate service from the Parliamentary Counsel, I would see some virtue in this amendment. I see no ground whatsoever for the suggestion that the already over-worked Parliamentary Counsel should be called on to give priority to private members and Opposition members as is suggested in the amendment. I believe that we should look to other solutions to this problem and, for that reason, the Government opposes the amendment. 
I do not know why  Senator Greenwood  needs an answer from me about whether such an alleged raid took place since everything else he said was based on the assumption that it did take place. However, I can understand his familiar concern with democratic practices, so I will get an answer from the Attorney-General and let the honourable senator have it as soon as possible. 
-Yes, I saw a story on the front page of today's 'Australian Financial Review' which contained the implications to which the honourable senator has adverted. It is true that a team from my Department visited Japan a couple of weeks ago, but the implication of the story that the team was disappointed is simply not true. This was one of a _ series of discussions with the Nissan and Toyota * companies about their prospective entry into an 85 per cent manufacturing plan in Australia. This is an important and complex matter involving millions of dollars of investment, and the Government has no intention of stampeding the Japanese companies. The discussions were constructive and I confidently expect the details of these companies' proposals to achieve 85 per cent local content to be finalised in the near future. The achievement of higher Australian content levels by these major manufacturers is of great importance to the Australian component industry. 
-The honourable senator mentioned to me as we were coming into the chamber this morning that he was going to ask me this question. He showed me the Ordinance in question which on its face would appear to support what he says, that is, that a man may be left with as little as $23 a week and a woman with as little as $15.25 a week under the garnishee proceedings of this Ordinance which was made in 1966. It is quite obvious- I think honourable senators opposite would agree- that $23 bought a little bit more in 1966 than it does today. If this is still the law- as 
I say, I have not had a chance to check it- it obviously cries out for amendment. So I will draw it to the attention of the Attorney-General with a view to having it amended, if it has not been amended. 

 Senator JAMES McCLELLANDAttachment of Wages Limitation Ordinance 1966. 
-Yes. Cabinet resolved at its last meeting to set up the committee referred to by the honourable senator. It will consist of 3 judges. The Government at present is attempting to obtain the requisite judges. 
I am not aware what stage the preparation of this legislation has reached. I certainly agree with the honourable senator that it is desirable that the legal profession and all concerned with the future activities of the Australian Legal Aid Office should have ample time to consider this legislation and I will therefore convey his request to the Attorney-General and suggest that it be complied with. 

 - Senator Wright, as he has said himself, is at something of a disadvantage in this debate seeing that he was not here when the Bill was originally debated in the Senate. It is just not true to say that what appears in clause 50 and what is sought to be amended by the message which has come from the House of Representatives was left in deliberately.  Senator Missen, Senator Chaney, Senator Durack, Senator Everett, Senator Button  and I gave lengthy consideration to the clauses of this Bill in the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I assure  Senator Wright  that the words that are now sought to be amended remained in clause 50 entirely by oversight. I am glad by the way that  Senator Wright  was abroad when this Bill was originally debated or perhaps we would still be debating it. 
The Bill is quite inconsistent if we leave in clause 50 a different terminal point for deciding the 12 months separation to that which appears in clause 48. There is no logical basis whatsoever for having a different terminal point in the case where there has been an interruption of the separation and when there has been an uninterrupted separation. Clause 50 directs itself to the question of resumption of cohabitation by parties which might raise a presumption that they are to be reconciled. As  Senator Missen  clearly points out this eventually is taken into account in sub-clause (3) of clause 48 which states that the court will look at an application in the light of resumption of cohabitation and will decide whether the resumption of cohabitation did create some resumption of reconciliation. To say that because parties have come together again for 3 months there should then be a different yardstick for determining the period of separation is, to me, absurd and illogical. For that reason I suggest that  Senator Wright's  objection should be overruled by the Committee. 
If  Senator Wright  is to uphold the line of reasoning, as I suppose he would call it, that he has now given to us he would have to assert the right to move for the deletion of any clause in the Bill on which the other place has suggested an amendment. He could presumably move, and claim relevance under standing order No. 224, for example, for the deletion of clause 50. If this is the limit to which his logic takes him I think there is really no need to debate the matter at all. The matter is self-evidently absurd.  Mr Temporary Chairman,  you have put to  Senator Wright  the irrelevance of his proposed amendment to the amendment which we are discussing and I think there is no point in delaying the consideration of this matter any further. He is clearly out of order and his proposed amendment is irrelevant to the amendment which we are considering. 
I have some sympathy with the thinking behind  Senator Greenwood's  amendment but I would like to foreshadow that the Government proposes words which are in the nature of a compromise. They are as circulated and in effect they amount to substituting for the words 'whether or not that reason is the dominant reason for the doing of the act' the words 'if that reason is a substantial reason for the doing of the act'. This may seem to be a rather hair splitting proposition and we do not feel very strongly about having this clause amended in the way that  Senator Greenwood  suggests. However, I would commend to him that the caveats that he places upon the manner in which this clause might work would be satisfied by adopting the words I suggest. 
I suggest with respect that  Senator Greenwood  would do justice to this Bill by forgetting about  Mr Grassby.  After all, the Bill has to be considered on its merits. There is no mention of  Mr Grassby  in the Bill. The provisions of the Bill are either good or bad in their own right We agree that the prime function of the Commissioner should be to act as a conciliator, but with respect we suggest that he also needs the powers which we seek to confer on him by this sub-clause for the simple reason that he will frequently be dealing with aggrieved persons who are intimidated by the notion of taking a matter to law. The people are often illiterate or underprivileged and would feel, if it came to taking a matter to law, that they were at a disadvantage and that they should not take it as far as that when, as a matter of public policy, it might be desirable that the matter be taken to law. 
There is nothing sinister in our intention in including this sub-clause in clause 20. After all, comparable legislation in other countries confers a similar power. The Race Relations Board in Great Britain has the power to institute litigation in the way we are suggesting. The counterpart of that Board, that is the Commissioner for Race Relations, should have similar power. I suggest that  Senator Greenwood  is a little overborne by his fear of the sinister qualities of  Mr Grassby,  qualities of course, which nobody who knows  Mr Grassby  could ever suspect him of having. This is the only reason why we want the Commissioner to have that power. There will be many cases which should be litigated and which will not be litigated if the power is not given to somebody of the prestige of the Commissioner to launch proceedings which otherwise would not be brought. 
The Government feels more strongly about this clause than it does about the others we have discussed, and takes the view that the elimination of this clause would have the effect of emasculating the Bill. In his speech in the second reading debate,  Senator Greenwood  made some play of what he called the ineffectiveness of British legislation dealing with race relations and I must confess that he made his point with some cogency. However, the lesson he should draw from that is that it is the absence of just such a power as this in the British legislation which tends to fetter its power and to make it so ineffective. This power exists in other legislation of this kind. For example, it exists in Canadian legislation and in New Zealand legislation and it has often been said that the real failure of the British Board- I am not suggesting that it is a complete failure but refer only to whatever limitations on success of the British authority exist- is primarily due to the absence of this power to compel people to give evidence or produce documents. It is said that this constitutes some star chamber system or some invasion of privacy or some invasion of the rights that we have become accustomed to under our system of law, but I draw attention to sub-clause 9 which has been lightly glossed over. It provides: 
A person is not excused from answering a question or producing a document in pursuance of this section on the ground that the answer to the question or the document may tend to incriminate him, but any such answer or document is not admissable in evidence against him in any proceeding other than a proceeding for an offence against sub-section (8). 
So in any subsequent litigation, which, I stress, would be civil litigation which would flow from the operation of this clause, the person involved would not be in any way disadvantaged because of the operation of sub-clause 9.I further point out that a subsequent clause, clause 49, guarantees the provision of legal aid to a person finding himself in the situation to which clause 23 applies. For those reasons I dispute the proposition that there is any great invasion of cherished democratic rights involved in this clause. The Government says that this clause is necessary if the Bill is to have any real effect because, as I have heard it said often about the British legislation, the Board frequently has difficulty in getting answers to letters it writes. The Board investigates a matter, finds that it does not have enough information on a given complaint, it writes to persons whom it considers should be able to give that information to the Board and the letters are ignored. This makes a travesty of the efforts of an authority like this to do something about stamping out racial discrimination. 
We are not lost for precedents. They do not have the powers in England, and that is to the cost of the legislation there. They have them in Canada and New Zealand and, of course, in other legislation in this Parliament, legislation introduced by both sides of politics, there is no absence of compulsory evidence gathering powers. Some that come to mind are the Copyright Act sections 167 and 172, the Income Tax Assessment Act sections 263 and 264, the Industries Assistance Commission Act sections 34 and 35, the National Health Act sections 127 to 129, the Prices Justification Act sections 23 to 26, the Public Accounts Committee Act sections 13 to 15, the Royal Commissions Act sections 2 to 5, the Trades Marks Act sections 1 19 to 12 1 and, of course, the Trade Practices Act sections 155 and 160, to which  Senator Greenwood  adverted in his remarks. 
I am at a loss to understand that there is something altogether novel about this clause- that it is something unknown to our law- which derogates from human rights when, as we have seen, the legislature on so many occasions has judged that there be compulsory evidence gathering powers conferred on various authorities and tribunals. I sound this warning that I am very much afraid that this Bill will not have the effect which the Government seeks if this power for compulsory evidence gathering with all of the safeguards that are built around it is deleted from the Bill. On this one matter, I would propose to divide the Senate. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (2.57)- I intrude in this debate not on the basis of a lawyer but simply as a citizen of this country who has been reared in the traditions and concepts of what are the rights and privileges of the citizen against administrative justice. This is another attempt to impose on the citizenry a response to administrative tribunals armed or clothed with semi-judicial authority. I do not accept from  Senator James  McClelland the argument that numerous pieces of legislation in the Commonwealth jurisdiction provide for this form of administrative tribunal. I go on to say merely that Parliament has been recreant in allowing some of these Bills to go through and I blame myself for it. One of the curiosities of our history is that we have grown out through an immense struggle amongst the English people in particular from the areas of administrative tribunals of one kind or another. The basic cause of the Civil War was the existence of the Star Chamber, an extra judicial tribunal that attempted to obtain evidence of one sort or another by which the citizenry of England could be prosecuted. 
We went through the great religious wars of Europe which are still indelibly burnt into the minds of people, when the canonical laws carried this form of administrative tribunal. I shall not mention the names because I do not want to excite any rancour in the place. I think that those of Scottish descent might be willing to allow me to acknowledge to the Senate that in the time of John Knox in Scotland and for a couple of hundred years afterwards they had people called sniffers-out. I think this is a fairly good description of the clause the Senate seeks to eliminate from the Bill because, in fact, all this is going to do is to clothe a sniffer-out with all the panoply of parliamentary enactment. I suggest that if the clause goes out- and I hope that it will go outthe Government will at least come back with some alternative. 
It is the character of quality of every bureaucrat that he wants more power and that is why it has crept into the statutes of this country in past years. I have no doubt that in the future there will be more of this constant cry by administrators for more power. To detract and subtract from their juridical tribunals the methods by which the citizen can have some kind of freedom against the increasing menace of direct Government prosecution, if you like, or interference in the habits of people through so-called administative tribunals is to encourage nothing more or less than those hateful things known as sniffersout that imposed an iron will on Scotland for 200 years. I oppose the clause. 
As befits a measure as important as this one I think that the debate is being conducted in a mild and temperate tone, but I would suggest that it is rather hyperbolic to use terms such as Star Chamber and even sniffer-out. I would remind  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack that the sniffer-out in every case will be a judge of the superior court or of the Australian Industrial Court. No objection seems to be taken from time to time to learned judges being cloaked with all the powers of sniffers-out in various royal commissions that are held, several of which are proceeding now. It is a rather extravagant and loaded term to use just as I suggest that Star Chamber is. What is suggested seriously by Opposition senators? Do they suggest, for example, that conferring the sort of powers about which we are talking on the Income Tax Commissioner turns him into some kind of Star Chamber or makes him some sort of reprehensible snifferout? 
If what  Senator Greenwood  alleges happened in respect of the matter that he raised in question time this morning, when we get to the full facts of that matter and if it turns out to have been the sort of invasion of human rights which he suggested in his question- and I should like to know the full facts before reaching that conclusion- I will be as forthright as he in condemning such practices. I think we are getting altogether too carried away in imputing to this particular clause the powers of a Star Chamber or of a sniffer-out which will in some way or other make people's lives miserable. I repeat what I said earlier, namely, that if this clause is removed from the Bill I believe that it will not be worthless but will suffer from the disabilities that have been proved to bedevil similar legislation in the United Kingdom. For that reason I appeal to honourable senators to support the maintenance of this clause in the Bill. 
I shall deal firstly with the last point raised by  Senator Missen.  He commented on the fact that we have omitted from our proposed amendment the equivalent of subclause (4) in the Opposition's amendment. The reason is that a sub-clause with exactly the same effect is to be found in sub-clause (5) of clause 
That is the only reason we omitted the subclause to which  Senator Missen  referred. I would suggest that it is not required. I would seriously suggest to  Senator Greenwood  that it be omitted from his amendment to clause 25.I wish to make another suggestion to him, and that is to point to a weakness which I believe exists in his proposed sub-clause (3). It existed also, I must confess, in our proposed amendment. It hinges on the use of the words 'presided over' in proposed sub-clause (3). The weakness that I see in that formulation is that this procedure could be set at nought by a person who was summoned to a conference not turning up at that conference. That goes to a question which arose in connection with another clause. The whole procedure envisaged in the Opposition's proposed sub-clause (3) is that a condition precedent to the launching of civil proceedings is that the Commissioner should have presided over a conference and then issued a certificate that he has done so. I suggest that if the word 'called' were substituted for 'presided over' this would meet all of the requirements which the Opposition seeks to impose. 
It may be that the person involved could not be found. He could just disappear, go into smoke. 
-Not permanently. I am not suggesting that he does it permanently, but he could make himself scarce at the time a conference was being called. I cannot see what the Opposition loses by adopting the substitution which I am suggesting. After all, if the Commissioner calls a conference, the purpose of this sub-clause would have been served. The purpose is to give to the parties involved an opportunity to submit to conciliation. As I understand it, that is what the Opposition seeks to achieve by its proposed sub-clause (3). I do not think that aim is eroded in any way by substituting the word ' called ' for 'presided over '. 
I share some of the apprehensions voiced by some members of the Opposition about the width of the verbiage in the preamble of clause 28. I imagine that it could lead to a limitation of freedom of speech which would be most undesirable. It could even react against Aboriginal people. I am not suggesting that the ambit of this Bill is confined to the elimination of prejudice only against Aboriginal people but I can envisage circumstances in which clause 28 could operate against the interests of Aboriginal people. That is why I would suggest for the consideration of the Opposition the formulation that we have proposed in substitution to the preamble portion of clause 28- to leave out the passage commencing with the words 'A person shall not' preceding paragraph (a) and substitute the words 'A person shall not, with intent to provoke a breach of the peace '. 
I do not think it is true to say that the notion of guilty intent is altogether unknown to the law. We are all familiar with the old legal doctrine of mens rea and there is nothing necessarily sinister in making the commission of an offence dependent upon a certain intent. But I would like to narrow it to what amounts really to incitement to violence rather than the rather loose formulation that we have in clause 28 at present. I do not feel strongly about the clause but I would like to see it retained, as indeed I would like to see clause 29 retained, but limited in the way I have suggested; that is, that a person shall not do these things with intent to provoke a breach of the peace. I commend that proposal for the consideration of the Opposition. 
Just as a formality, we seek to retain the clause for the same general reasons as those I outlined in support of retaining the previous clause. We believe that there should be strong deterrents to incitement to illegality in this field and for that reason we would like the clause retained. 
Clause negatived. 
Clause 30. 
1 ) A person shall not insult, hinder, obstruct, molest or interfere with the Commissioner, an officer or employee of the Commissioner, a person presiding over a conference referred to in section 22, a prescribed authority referred to in section 23 or any of the members of a conciliation committee in the performance of any functions or the exercise of any powers under this Act. 
) A person shall not- 
refuse to employ another person; 
dismiss, or threaten to dismiss, another person from his employment; 
prejudice, or threaten to prejudice, another person in his employment; or 
intimidate or coerce, or impose any pecuniary or other penalty upon, another person, by reason that the other person- 
has made, or proposes to make, a complaint to the Commissioner; 
has furnished, or proposes to furnish, any information or documents to the Commissioner; 
has attended, or proposes to attend, a conference referred to in section 22; or 
has appeared, or proposes to appear, before a prescribed authority referred to in section 23 to give evidence or produce documents. 
Penalty: $500. 
I have circulated a proposed amendment as an alternative to the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood.  The purport of my amendment is to include in clause 49 (2) a specific reference to the Australian Legal Aid Office. The amendment is similar to the provisions of clause 1 17 (4) of the Family Law Bill that was passed by the Senate and clause 58(2) of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill that has been passed by the House of Representatives and will soon be considered by the Senate. The amendment states that legal aid is to be provided in accordance with the means and needs test of the Australian Legal Aid Office for the giving of legal aid assistance. In summary, this test is that the applicant for legal aid is unable to afford the cost of legal representation. This test is one that has been supported by the Law Council of Australia and is used in most Australian legal aid schemes. 
I move: 
Leave out sub-clause (2), substitute the following subclause: 
Where an application is made by a person under subsection ( 1 ), the Attorney-General, the Director of the Australian Legal Aid Office or a person employed in the Australian Legal Aid Office authorised by the Director in writing in that behalf may (in the case of a person employed in the Australian Legal Aid Office, subject to any restriction specified in the authorisation) authorise the provision to that person of legal assistance, including assistance by way of the payment of any costs and expenses reasonably incurred by or on behalf of that person in connection with the proceeding, in accordance with the means and needs test of the Australian Legal Aid Office for the giving of legal assistance. 
I find it incongruous that  Senator Wright,  who saw fit to oppose my amendment to clause 49, should now give voice to the fears he has about the wide powers of the Attorney-General. If he had read the amendment which I circulated he would have seen that legal aid could have been given either by the Attorney-General, the Director of the Australian Legal Aid Office or a person employed by the Australian Legal Aid Office. One would have thought that in order to be consistent  Senator Wright  would have given enthusiastic support to my amendment. Evidently he sees no inconsistency in his attitude. 
It is pleasing to note that  Senator Wright,  speaking for the Opposition, will not oppose the Bill even though he could not forbear to take a sideswipe at the proposition that the Parliamentary Counsel properly belongs within the administrative domain of the Prime Minister. One would have thought that something was exceptional about this proposition from the way  Senator Wright  spoke, but I remind him that in that citadel of democracy, Queensland, the office of the Parliamentary Counsel is in the Premier's Department. In the United Kingdom the Parliamentary Counsel traditionally comes under the domain of the Treasury. So the notion that something is outrageous or exceptional about this arrangement is untenable. I do not propose to debate the main matter which we are to consider- the amendment which has been foreshadowed by  Senator Wright.  I merely say that the Government does not accept the amendment and will be opposing it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I do not think, with due respect to  Senator Missen,  that there is any onus on the Government to show that this does not need to be done; rather there is an onus on those who seek to change the present situation to show that there is some vice in the present situation which requires to be cured. There is no doubt, as members of the Opposition would readily admit if they searched their consciences, that abundant assistance has been available to them under the present dispensation. I have a list of members of the Opposition who have been given assistance by the Parliamentary Counsel during the life of the present Government. It is a very impressive list and shows that there is really no requirement for this amendment. I suggest to members of the Opposition that they would not fare better under this change than they fare at present. 
The only case I know of of a member of the Opposition being refused assistance by the Parliamentary Counsel in recent times is that of  Senator Wright. Senator Wright  approached me in the last few months and asked me to approach the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  with a request that the Parliamentary Counsel should make a draftsman available to him to draft some measure that he was to put before the Parliament. It turned out to be a minor drafting chore related to the judicature provisions in chapter III of the Constitution. That part of the Constitution is encrusted with judicial decisions and the amendment would, in effect, have required a senior experienced member of the Parliamentary Counsel staff to desist from his ordinary duties for a period of probably 6 months. This struck me as an abuse of the rights of a member of the Opposition and underlines the possibilities of abuse which lie in this amendment. I suggest that if this amendment were carried the First Parliamentary Counsel would have to advertise for a couple of comparatively junior people to be made available to him and he would, far from getting the services of an experienced member of the Office of Parliamentary Counsel, have to do the best he could with the services of a couple of relatively junior people. I am not suggesting for a moment that Opposition members are not entitled to some assistance in drafting amendments for private members' Bills but I suggest that the solution to this problem- is that this assistance should probably come from outside the Office of Parliamentary Counsel. 
Consideration interrupted. 
I want to make one of my very rare appearances as a  speaker  on the adjournment debate and I can assure honourable senators that I will be very brief. I do not think that we ought to let this occasion go by without paying some tribute to a previous member of this Senate on this historical day when the Family Law Bill finally passed through this Parliament. I am referring to  His  Honour,  Mr Justice  Murphy, who sponsored this Bill as a senator in this Parliament. I think honourable senators will agree that when the dust of history settles on this Parliament one of the things for which it will be remembered is the enactment of what is probably the most enlightened matrimonial causes Bill in the world. I think that it is fitting that we should pay a tribute to the man who more than anybody else was responsible for the conception of this Bill, for bringing it to this Parliament, for drafting it and for seeing that it became law. 
Before I sit down I would also like to pay a tribute to the work of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which, in its deliberations helped to make this a better Bill than it was when it was introduced into the Parliament. I pay a tribute especially to the work of- if I have to single our anybodySenator Missen who I think interested himself more than anybody else on the Committee and indeed in the Senate in making this a better Bill. I woul like to think that senators on both sides of the chamber will remember  Senator Murphy,  as he then was, as the sponsor and advocate of this Bill and the man who made it possible. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
See the answer to House of Representatives Question No. 926 (Hansard, 8 April 1975, page 1312). The period mentioned therein is not less than two years. 
I can appreciate the interest of Opposition members in the disadvantages that may face small businessmen. This matter engaged the attention of members of the Opposition when they were in government, and in fact in about 1968 their Government commissioned an inquiry into the plight of small businesses. I understand the report was received a year or two later and that it lay in cold storage until the present Government came to office. This Government, as is well known, took some steps to assist small businesses. It has set up 2 small business bureaus in Perth and Sydney as pilot schemes. Expert advice is available at a nominal charge for those small businesses which are ordinarily disadvantaged as compared with large corporations which are able to afford expensive business consultants' advice. In other words, where the Opposition twiddled its thumbs, this Government has stepped in to try to redress some of the balance in favour of the small businessman. 
It is a fact that at any time a fairly large proportion of small businessmen goes to the wall, primarily because they are under-financed, they do not have enough expertise, and they do not have the benefit of the sort of advice we have provided for them. The percentage of the work force employed in small businesses depends on the criterion: What is a small business? If we take the cut-off point to be 100 employees- I have not the figures to hand at the present time and I stand correction on this- I think about 37 per cent of employees, at least in the manufacturing part of industry, are employed in small businesses. So the general answer to the honourable senator's question is that this Government is very conscious of the special difficulties of small businesses and that unlike our predecessors we have taken some steps to look after their grievances. 
-The Government has made it quite clear that the profitability of the private sector is a very important ingredient in the general prosperity of the country. As to guidelines for the Prices Justification Tribunal, the Prime Minister in either November or December 1974 wrote to the  Chairman  of the Prices Justification Tribunal in effect giving that Tribunal new guidelines to include the question of profitability in the considerations that it took into account in dealing with applications for price increases. Of course, it is well known that in the submission which the Government put to the Prices Justification Tribunal in respect of the application by the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited for an increase in its prices based on the need for profitability, the Government set out guidelines or, in effect, its view of the considerations that the Tribunal should take into account in dealing with such applications. With due respect to the honourable senator,  I  do not think that the Prices Justification Tribunal could seriously claim that it is in any doubt about the Government's attitude towards the question of profitability. 
-And capital investment. I am not sure whether  I  have supplied the honourable senator with a copy of that submission but, if  I  did not,  I  will let him have one. It is clear in that submission that the Government understands fully that we will not be able to claim that we have turned the corner in the present difficult economic circumstances until businessmen generally indicate that they are once again able and willing to reinvest in bringing their plants up to date. That is a matter which is at the very centre of the Government's thinking at the present time. 
I was fascinated throughout  Senator Greenwood's  speech to hear the constant reiteration of the word 'clandestine'. Let us look at the situation with which we are dealing. What the honourable senator is objecting to, insofar as I could detect a coherent theme in his remarks, is that a social democratic party, namely the Australian Labor Party, should maintain fraternal relations with a social democratic party which has been overthrown by force of arms in another country. I would seriously ask  Senator Greenwood  to give me further and better particulars of his complaints about our conduct. As I understand the recent history in Chile, a legally elected government that was seeking to produce some reform and improvements in the social relationships in that country was overthrown by a combination of military forces - 

 -As Senator Poyser interjected, I think with some point, that Government was overthrown- I think there is some evidence of this- with the assistance of the Central Intelligence Agency. 
I think 1 can. 
-Given enough time I can produce authority to indicate that the subversion- 'subversion' is a word that  Senator Greenwood  is very fond of- of the legally elected government of Chile was assisted and advanced by the CIA and by some rather sinister forces in American society. 

 -Senator Sir Magnus Cormack has reduced his contributions to these debates to interjections which are rather declamatory and unsupported by evidence. I suggest that if he feels so powerfully about this argument he should stand up in his place. 
I am glad to hear that statement. I would welcome it if the level of this debate were to be raised somewhat above the post-prandial enthusiasm that we are accustomed to in this place. 
It was much more rational before dinner. It has become more euphoric and, if I may be excused a term that the honourable senator might find embarrassing, a note of ratbaggery has entered the debate since dinner. I would like to remind  Senator, Greenwood  of appearances that he has made at gatherings that are called the captive nations gatherings.  His  theme, insofar as I can detect a theme, is that it is improper for the Australian Government to be interested in the fate of dispossessed governments. I would like  Senator Greenwood  to follow that chain of logic that I am attempting to develop. 
I would like  Senator Wright  to attempt to do so also. I would like this splenetic old fossil,  Senator Wright,  to attempt also to follow the chain of logic I am attempting to develop. I understand that  Senator Greenwood  and his blood brother  Mr Wentworth  constantly attend yearly gatherings that are called the captive nations gatherings. At each of those gatherings they incite discredited, decrepit old representatives - 
-Ex Nazis of banished regimes - 

 -Mr President, I do not need any protection but I would suggest that the neanderthal grunts of  Senator Wright  should be restrained in the interests of having the people on his side of the House also hear what I have to say. 
Copious amendments have been circulated by the Government which have the effect of bringing before the Senate legislation much more extensive in scope than that covered by my second reading speech. I think it would assist those taking part in the debate if I were to set out briefly the general purport and the effect of the amendments which have been circulated by the Government without, of course, canvassing those amendments in detail. 
The Government has circulated 2 sets of amendments to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill 1975. One proposes the establishment of an Administrative Review Council and the other provides for certain jurisdiction to be conferred on the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. The Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has given an undertaking that the Government will propose amendments to the Bill in the Senate to establish the Administrative Review Council and will endeavour to propose amendments conferring jurisdiction on the Tribunal. The proposed Administrative Review Council would be constituted by the  President  of the Tribunal, the Australian Ombudsman- who is to be appointed under a Bill now before the House of Representativesthe  Chairman  of the Law Reform Commission and not less than three or more than seven other members. In its membership, the 
Council differs from what was proposed by the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committeethe Kerr Committee- and in the amendments moved by the Opposition in the other place. The principal difference is that it is intended that the membership of the Council will be rather more widely based, to enable it to draw on a greater area of practical and academic expertise in public administration. 
The Council will be an advisory body. It will advise on the need for appeals from administrative discretions, the working of appeal tribunals and the desirability of providing for appeals against administrative decisions and of the jurisdiction in respect of those appeals being vested in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. It will also advise on what changes are desirable in the procedures for administrative decision making in the exercise of statutory discretions. The amendments would insert a schedule in the Bill conferring jurisdiction on the Tribunal in respect of the matters specified in the schedule. The schedule covers a substantial part of the recommendations of the Bland Committee. That it does not go further does not mean that the Government has decided against appeals to the Tribunal in other matters recommended by the Bland Committee or under legislation enacted since the Bland Committee made its report. The content of the Schedule has been dictated by 2 considerations. The first was what could physically be done in the time available. The second is the fact that the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security has been asked to report on what procedures should be available for appeals by those who are adversely affected by security reports. The first factor prevented detailed consideration being given to a number of Acts and to the recommendations of the Bland Committee concerning appeals in compensation and in medical matters. The second factor has resulted in a decision to defer, until the Royal Commission has reported, the question of appeals under the Australian Citizenship Act, the Passports Act and section 14 of the Migration Act. 
The Schedule does, however, provide for appeals under the Customs and Excise legislation, an important area where there has not previously been a ready avenue of appeal against departmental or ministerial discretion except in those cases in which there have been provisions for action to challenge in a court the liability for duty. 
The Government proposes that the Bill should confer power to vary the Schedule by regulations. A study of the existing statutory discretions not covered by the Schedule is proceeding, and the power to vary the Schedule by regulation will enable additional jurisdiction to be conferred on the Tribunal without the delays that would be caused if Bills for this purpose had to be fitted into a crowded legislative program. By its power of disallowance, the Parliament would exercise a control over the matters to be dealt with by regulation. It is expected that a great deal of additional jurisdiction will be conferred in this way by the time the Tribunal is ready to commence operations. It has been considered more appropriate that jurisdiction to hear appeals under the Austraiian Capital Territory ordinances should be conferred by ordinance. The preparation of an ordinance for this purpose is being put in hand. 
The amendment, as amended, is totally acceptable to the Government. I commend  Senator Greenwood  for his reasonableness in accepting the proposition that his original amendment could be improved in the way in which it has now been improved. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
I seek leave to move: 
In sub-clause (2), leave out paragraph (c), substitute '(c) for any other reason specified in the certificate that could form the basis for a claim by the Crown in right of Australia in a judicial proceeding that the contents of the statement should not be disclosed. ' 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2), leave out paragraph (c), substitute '(c) for any other reason specified in the certificate that could form the basis for a claim by the Crown in right of Australia in a judicial proceeding that the contents of the statement should not be disclosed.' 
I move: 
In sub-clause (6) (a), leave out ', or another enactment having effect under that enactment, '. 
In sub-clause (6)(b), leave out ', or another enactment having effect under that enactment, '. 
They are consequential amendments and are of exactly the same nature. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Postponed proposed new clause 26a. 
Might I suggest that amendment No. 10 relating to sub-paragraph (c) of clause 36(1) also be postponed as it involves an identical problem to that in proposed amendment No. 8, and they should be taken together. 
I direct the honourable senator's attention to clause 28, which I think covers the question that he asks. Sub-clause (1) of clause 28 states: 
Where a person makes a decision in respect of which an application may be made to the Tribunal for a review, any person (in this section referred to as the 'applicant') who is entitled to apply to the Tribunal for a review of the decision may, by notice in writing given within the prescribed period to the person who made the decision, request that person to furnish to the applicant a statement in writing setting out the findings on material questions of fact and the reasons for the decision, and the person who made the decision shall, within 14 days after receiving the request, prepare and furnish to the applicant, such a statement. 
Does that answer the question you asked, senator? 
A member of the Tribunal includes the  President.  We must go back to clause 5 for that. It reads: 
There is hereby established an Administrative Appeals Tribunal, which shall consist of a President and such number of Deputy Presidents and other members as are appointed in accordance with this Act. 
I respectfully suggest it is subsumed in that clause that the  President  is a member. 
-Yes, that is so. 
I find the arguments of  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Missen  persuasive. The Government will not oppose the amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 9 (Status of presidential members). 
I have been invited to come up with something a little less draconian but, while I appreciate the spirit of the Opposition amendment, I am afraid that the Government regards the Bill as framed as satisfying the normal requirements we are used to in our legal structure. We believe the Tribunal could be relied on as can courts, and it would operate in the same way as do the courts in interpreting the limitations of the claim of Crown privilege. For that reason, and because we feel strongly about the necessity for this provision, the Government adheres to the formulation in the Bill, and I propose to divide the Committee on this matter. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Greenwood's  amendment) be left out. 
The principles involved in this amendment are identical to those involved in the matter on which the Committee recently divided, so I merely signify the Government's formal opposition to the amendment. I should point out that we are dealing with clause 36(1), apart from sub-paragraph (c), which is the subject of a separate amendment. This is amendment No. 9, and the Government formally opposes it. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (3) leave out 'or (2), that enactment, or other enactment having effect under that enactment', substitute ' that enactment '. 
Sub-clause (3) will then read: 
Where an enactment makes provision in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ) of that enactment . . . 
The amendment is consequential upon the substitution of the new sub-clause (2). 
Amendment agreed to. 
-My Department is in regular contact with the manufacturers in Australia on all aspects of problems of the motor car industry. We do not have the May figures as yet: I expect to have them within the next few days. There is no doubt that there will be a slump and that there is cause for concern about sales in the motor car industry. Likewise, there is no doubt that the measures taken by the Government in respect of a remission of sales tax had the effect of not only clearing accumulated stocks but also probably persuading people into forward buying; in other words people who ordinarily would have postponed the purchase of a car until August or September of this year bought it in February or March because of the favourable price resulting from the Government's remission of sales tax. It would be inevitable in any circumstances, even in a situation of economic buoyance, which of course we do not enjoy at the moment- I note the assent of  Senator Wright  to that proposition, showing that he is on the ball about everything that is happening in our society- that measures such as those the Government took would have had the effect of persuading people to buy early rather than late, and that would have produced a downturn at the present time. The extent of the downturn is not known to me, but when I have the figures I will make them available to the Senate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill gives effect to the Government's measures providing financial assistance to the Australia shipbuilding industry. The measures were announced by the Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply on 18 December 1973. It is the Government's objective to provide assistance which will assure the continuing development of a rationalised and efficient shipbuilding industry in Australia. The assistance will alleviate local shipbuilder's disabilities against prospective import competition while providing intending purchasers with the opportunity to source their requirements overseas. 
Honourable senators will be aware that financial assistance has been provided to the shipbuilding industry since 1947. The assistance is currently provided under section 47 of the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act 1956, as amended, under which Australia agrees to purchase a vessel from the shipowner on completion of construction and the shipowner agrees to re-purchase the vessel from Australia at the same price less the amount of the subsidy to be provided. The level and mode of assistance to the industry has been reviewed by the Tariff Board from time to time, the latest review being the Tariff Board report on shipbuilding signed on 25 June 1971. The annual payments of subsidy have risen from about $2m in 1947 to about $3Om in 1974 
The legislation now being introduced sets out the assistance that will be available to shipbuilders and the procedures by which that assistance will be made available. The Bill is similar to other bounty legislation and brings the method of providing assistance to shipbuilders into line with other bounty assistance accorded to manufacturers. The Bill provides that bounty will be payable on the production in Australia, in registered shipyards, of vessels of 150 gross construction tons or more and fishing vessels 2 1 metres or more in length, where these vessels are for use in Australian waters or for use by Australian flag operators in international trade. Bounty is also payable on the modification in Australia of existing vessels where the cost of the shipbuilding type activity involved in the modification exceeds $500,000. There is provision for pro-rata re-capture of bounty if the vessel is disposed of for use outside Australian waters by other than an Australian flag operator within 10 years of completion of the construction or modification. 
The amount of bounty payable is as follows: vessels of less than 1000 gross construction tons, 25 per cent of the bounty price; vessels of 92 000 deadweight tonnes or more, 25 per cent; oil exploration vessels, 25 per cent; modification of existing vessels, 25 per cent; other vessels up to 3 1 December 1 980, 25 per cent to 40 per cent according to gross construction tonnage and date of keel laying specified in the building contract; and other vessels on or after 1 January 1981, 25 per cent. 
In determining the bounty price the cost of certain items such as purchase of designs overseas, miscellaneous stores, fees and specialised functional equipment not being part of shipbuilding activity may be excluded. The Bill also includes provisions for the registration of premises for the construction, or modification, of vessels generally or vessels of a particular kind. The provisions are similar to those provided in the Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Act 1972, and the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1973. The Minister for Transport will be responsible for the administration of the bounty legislation. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to seek the approval of the Parliament to pay to Tasmania, in accordance with the provisions of Section 96 of the Australian Constitution, a sum not exceeding $650,000. Such payments are to be made in return for Tasmania providing financial assistance to Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd, subject to that company in turn maintaining employment at agreed levels. 
Briefly, the background to this matter is as follows: Last year concern was expressed regarding a possible shortage of printing papers. As a consequence, considerable quantities were imported, whilst at the same time Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd- the only Australian manufacturer of fine papers for printing and writing purposes- was also experiencing a high level of demand. Towards the end of 1974 it became apparent that very high levels of stocks were held by merchants and users of fine paper, and as a result orders for further supplies from the local supplier fell away dramatically. Consequently, APPM Ltd found its inventories of paper rising sharply. An inquiry by the Temporary Assistance Authority found that the company was not at present being threatened by imports, and the Government accepted the recommendation of the Authority that emergency protection against imports should not be applied. 
Orders on the company have continued at very low levels throughout 1975, and orders have been at a level considerably below the company's production. The company found that it was impossible to continue to amass stocks and was faced with the necessity of closing down large sections of its plant, which would have had particularly sudden and serious consequences in employment and social terms in the areas in which these plants are located, both for the families directly concerned and the many others indirectly dependent upon the company and its employees. 
Alternative employment opportunities in the areas concerned are very limited, and the particular areas which would be affected are heavily dependent on the company's operations. The Government considered it desirable that all steps reasonably possible to avoid such a serious situation should be taken. Because of the findings in the report of the TAA it was clear that assistance through the tariff was not appropriate. 
Because of the very high level of stocks held by the company, it has reduced operations in the coating plant of one mill from a 7-day to a 5-day week, and at other locations is working 3 weeks in every four. This has enabled retrenchments to be kept to a minimum, but still results in production in excess of demand. To permit a reasonable level of operations to continue, it is proposed that Tasmania will reimburse the company for interest actually paid, up to a maximum of $650,000, on a loan necessary to finance the accumulation of additional stocks. Tasmania will then be reimbursed by the Australian Government. These payments will only be made if the Minister for Manufacturing Industry is satisfied as to the reasonable maintenance of employment levels and other conditions, such as the provision of necessary information. 
I draw the attention of honourable senators to clause 5 of the Bill. Apart from retrenchments resulting directly from the reduction in throughput I have mentioned, the company cannot, in terms of the agreement, undertake further retrenchment of employees before 31 December 1975 without the express agreement in writing of the Australian and Tasmanian Governments. Such agreements would only be contemplated in extreme circumstances, such as if stocks continue to rise and reach a level beyond which further stock accumulation would be untenable. The financial assistance proposed by this Bill is exceptional in nature to meet exceptional circumstances. It is not intended to be a generalised form of assistance. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
I move: 
After Part IV, insert the following Part: 
PART IVa-ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW COUNCIL 47a. (1) In this Part, unless the contrary intention appears- "appointed member" means a member referred to in  paragraph 47c ( 1 ) (d);  "Council" means the Administrative Review Council; "member" means a member of the Council. 
A reference in this Part to an administrative decision or an administrative discretion includes a reference to an administrative decision made, or administrative discretion exercised, otherwise than under an enactment. 47b. There is hereby established a Council by the name of the Administrative Review Council. 47c. ( 1 ) The Council shall consist of- 
the President; 
the Australian Ombudsman holding office under the Ombudsman Act 1975; 
the  Chairman  of the Law Reform Commission established by the Law Reform Commission Act 1 973: and 
not less than 3 nor more than 7 other members. 
The members referred to in paragraph ( 1 ) (d ) shall be appointed by the Governor-General and shall be appointed as part-time members. 
The performance of the functions or the exercise of the powers of the Council is not affected by a vacancy in the office of a member referred to in paragraph ( 1 ) (a), (b) or (c) or by reason of the number of appointed members falling below 3 for not more than 3 months. 47d. A person shall not be appointed as a member referred to in paragraph 47C ( I ) (d) unless he has had extensive experience in public administration or has an extensive knowledge of administrative law. 47e. ( 1 ) The functions of the Council are- 
to ascertain, and keep under review, the classes of administrative decisions that are not the subject of review by a court, tribunal or other body; 
to make recommendations to the Minister as to whether any of those classes of decisions should be the subject of review by a court, tribunal or other body and, if so, as to the appropriate court, tribunal or other body to make that review; 
to inquire into the adequacy of the law and practice relating to the review by courts of administrative decisions and to make recommendations to the Minister as to any improvements that might be made in that law or practice; 
to inquire into the adequacy of the procedures in use by tribunals or other bodies engaged in the review of administrative decisions and to make recommendations to the Minister as to any improvements that might be made in those procedures; 
to make recommendations to the Minister as to the manner in which tribunals engaged in the review of administrative decisions should be constituted; (0 to make recommendations to the Minister as to the desirability of administrative decisions that are the subject of review by tribunals other than the Administrative Appeals Tribunal being made the subject of review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal; and 
to make recommendations to the Minister as to ways and means of improving the procedures for the exercise of administrative discretions for the purpose of ensuring that those discretions are exercised in a just and equitable manner. 
) The Council may do all things necessary or convenient to be done for or in connexion with the performance of its functions. 47f. An appointed member shall be appointed for such period, not exceeding 3 years, as the Governor-General specifies in the instrument of his appointment, but is eligible for re-appointment. 47g. (1) An appointed member shall be paid such remuneration as is determined by the Remuneration Tribunal but, if no determination of that remuneration by that Tribunal is in operation, he shall be paid such remuneration as is prescribed. 
An appointed member shall be paid such allowances as are prescribed. 
This section has effect subject to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973-1974. 47h. An appointed member may resign his office by writing signed by him and delivered to the Governor-General. 47j. ( I ) The Governor-General may remove an appointed member from office for misbehaviour or incapacity. 
If an appointed member is absent, except by leave of the Minister, from 3 consecutive meetings of the Council, the Governor-General may remove him from office. 47k. (1) The Council shall hold such meetings as are necessary for the performance of its functions. 
The  President  may at any time convene a meeting of the Council. 
The  President  shall, on receipt of a request in writing signed by 3 members, convene a meeting of the Council. 
At a meeting of the Council, 4 members constitute a quorum. 
The  President  shall preside at all meetings of the Council at which he is present. 
If the  President  is not present at a meeting of the Council, the members present shall elect one of their number to preside at that meeting and the person so elected shall preside accordingly. 
Questions arising at a meeting of the Council shall be determined by a majority of the votes of the members present and voting. 
The member presiding at a meeting of the Council has a deliberative vote and, in the event of an equality of votes, also has a casting vote. 
The Council may regulate the conduct of proceedings at its meetings as it thinks fit and shall keep minutes of those proceedings. 
A person acting in the office of the Australian Ombudsman may attend a meeting of the Council and, in relation to a meeting of the Council that he attends in pursuance with this sub-section, shall be deemed to be the Australian Ombudsman. 47l. The staff of the Council shall be persons appointed or employed under the Public Service Act 1922- 1 975. 47m. ( 1 ) The Council shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June in each year, prepare and furnish to the Minister a report of the operations of the Council during that year. 
The Minister shall cause the report of the Council to be laid before each House of the Parliament within IS sitting days of that House after the receipt of the report by the Minister. 
The first report by the Council shall relate to the period commencing on the date of commencement of this Act and ending on 30 June 1976. 
Proposed new Part IVa provides for the inclusion in the Bill of clauses for the setting up of an Administrative Review Council. This is one of the institutions which was envisaged in the Kerr report as an integral part of a total scheme of administrative law. I touched on the reasons why this is desirable in the remarks which I made last night as an addendum to my second reading speech. As I know that this is a matter on which the Opposition is in agreement with the Governmentin general agreement, at least- I feel that it is unnecessary for me to say anything further at this stage. I know that the Opposition also has circulated a proposed amendment to effect the same purpose as that which is sought to be achieved by the Government's amendment. I should like some indication from  Senator Greenwood  as to whether the Government's proposed amendment is acceptable. 
I refer to the doubts expressed by both  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Wright  as to the impairment of the effectiveness of this council by the addition of further members in addition, I must confess, to those who were suggested by the Kerr Committee. It may be that there is a presumption of some sort of cumber.somness in having additional persons on the council. I have no doubt that if that turns out to be the case it will be possible to amend the Act in due course, but I do not think there is such a great deal in the fears expressed. After all, something may be added to the deliberations of the council by the seconding of persons of the type envisaged in proposed new section 47C ( 1 ) (d). I have in mind retired senior public servants or professors of public administration- people who would have had some sort of general purview in the course of their lives of the things that we are seeking to achieve in this Bill. Of course it would also be envisaged that the real work of the council would be done by the  President,  the Ombudsman and the  Chairman  of the Law Reform Commission. I do not think it is realistic to suppose that their deliberations would be seriously held up by having available thoughts and deliberations of other persons. 
Proposed new Part agreed to. 
Clauses 48 to 57- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 58 (Regulations). 
I formally oppose the amendment. Specific reference to the Australian Legal Aid Office already exists in legislation passed by this Senate, namely, the Family Law Bill, and I cannot help thinking the objection to the specific reference to the Australian Legal Aid Office in this Bill, as with the Racial Discrimination Bill which was before us a few days ago, is based on  Senator Greenwood's  recently aroused antipathy to the Australian Legal Aid Office and is not soundly based in any particular principle. It is not a matter on which I would be prepared to divide the Committee; I merely signalise our formal opposition to the amendment. 
in reply- I do not think there is anything contentious in what has been said by speakers on the opposite side of the chamber, so I propose that the definitive debate on specific matters in the Bill be dealt with in Committee. There is only one matter to which I should like to advert, namely, the list handed to me last night by  Senator Greenwood  asking why discretions under certain Acts which the Bland Committee thought should be granted to a body similar to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal were excluded from the schedule. The first one is the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act, which has been amended since the report of the Bland Committee in such a way as to make it clear that some of the matters arising are to be treated as policy questions. Moreover, the recommendations in respect of this Act do not appear to be consistent: For example, no appeal under section 9 is proposed. The Act therefore requires further detailed study. 
The second Act adverted to by  Senator Greenwood  is the Book Bounty Act. There are a number of bounty Acts which, in the estimation of the Government, should all be considered together. It is intended to deal with this by regulation. The appeal provisions would require careful drafting consideration and there just has not been time for the draftsman to give attention to these Acts. The third one is the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Act, to which the same considerations apply as apply to the Book Bounty Act. The fourth matter is the Coal Excise Act, and to what extent there should be an appeal under section 12 of this Act depends on whether there should be a right of appeal to the Tribunal against the amount or form of security required by Customs. The Bland Committee generally has not recommended appeals against determinations of the amount or form of security required by Customs. An appeal under section 12 of this Act would not seem to be of much value unless a right of appeal is given against the fixing of the amount of, or manner of giving security required, which is dealt with by earlier sections of the Act in respect of which no right of appeal is recommended. There needs to be a reexamination of the whole question whether there should be a right of appeal against the fixing of or manner of giving security, and this should be approached on a consistent basis throughout the whole of the legislation administered by Customs. 
The Bland Committee has not recommended an appeal under section 17 of the Act but it recommended an appeal in respect of a precisely equivalent provision under the Distillation Act. Again, the whole of the legislation administered by Customs needs to be reviewed in order to ensure consistency of terms in cases where the Minister is given power to cancel a licence for the carrying on of some manufacturing processes or other activity on the premises. The fifth item on  Senator Greenwood's  list is the Citizenship Act. Refusals of citizenship may be based on security reports and the form of appeal in such cases is a matter that has been referred to the Hope Royal Commission. As I said in the second reading speech, the Government proposes to defer matters which await the report of that Royal Commission. 
The sixth matter is the Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act. The discretions conferred by this Act involve questions of whether there should be a right of appeal against a requirement by Customs to give security, and so the same considerations apply to this Act as apply to the Coal Excise Act, to which I have already referred. The seventh item is the Copyright Act and the questions arising under section 135 of the Copyright Act are the same as those arising under the Commerce (Trade Descriptions) Act, to which I have already referred. The eighth item relates to the Gold Mining Industry Assistance Act. There has not been time to discuss this with Treasury and to give drafting instructions. Sections 12 and 13 of this Act were repealed in 1965 but the Bland Committee recommended an appeal under those sections. 
The ninth matter related to the Life Insurance Act, and consideration of this has been deferred pending a decision on the future of the insurance tribunal under the Insurance Act 1973. The tenth item is the Narcotic Drugs Act, which is in process of being re-written, so it is not thought that it should be included in the schedule at this stage. The eleventh item is the New Zealand Reexports Act, and insofar as this Act is still operative the appeal provision in section 167 of the Customs Act on the amount of duty payable would appear to cover matters arising under this Act. 
Item No. 13 is the Navigation Act. The Bland Committee recommended that an appeal should go to a court of marine inquiry or to the Medical Appeals Tribunal, except for one case. This is the reference in Appendix E of the report in section 361 of the Navigation Act. The Committee recommended an appeal to the Tribunal. Section 36 1 does not confer any discretionary power on a 
Minister. It deals with suspension or cancellation by the court of marine inquiry. The last item on the list was the Passports Act and the same considerations apply to this Act as to the Citizenship Act. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Interpretation). 
Yes. I had not adverted to the clause in the depth which the honourable senator has applied to it, but that is my understanding of the intendment. 
The Government has circulated a proposed amendment to clause 3 to add at the end of the clause a sub-clause. The intention of the proposed addition is to make it clear that a reference in the Act to a decision is intended to cover all the various forms that a decision may take. This is set out in detail in the circulated amendment. I move: 
At the end of the clause, add the following sub-clause: - 
A reference in this Act to a decision includes a reference to- 
making, suspending, revoking or refusing to make an order or determination; 
b ) giving, suspending, revoking or refusing to give a  certificate,  direction, approval, consent or permission; 
issuing, suspending, revoking or refusing to issue a licence, authority or other instrument; 
d ) imposing a condition or restriction; 
making a declaration, demand or requirement; 
f) retaining, or refusing to deliver up, an article; or 
doing or refusing to do any other act or thing. '. 
That is a proposal which commends itself to the Government. Would  Senator Greenwood  be prepared to indicate at this stage what number he had in mind in order that we might give some thought to it before we reach this matter again? 
I agree that clause 5 be postponed and we will give consideration to the suggestion made by the honourable senator. 
Clause 4 agreed to. 
Clause 5 postponed. 
Clauses 6 and 7 agreed to. 
Clause 8. 
Subject to this Part, a member holds office on such terms and conditions as the Governor-General determines. 
The terms and conditions that may be determined by the Governor-General under sub-section (3) do not include terms and conditions authorising the provision of superannuation benefits. 
I shall deal firstly with the point raised by  Senator Missen.  I would not have thought that the words in this clause would be sufficient to make a presidential member a judge for the purposes suggested by the honourable senator- that is, to give him a lifetime appointment. I would have thought that he would have had to be specifically designated as a judge to attract that sort of entitlement. 
I understand that that is arguable. I would have thought not. I would have thought that he would have had to be designated specifically as a judge to become entitled to a lifetime appointment. 
This matter is not something on which the Government proposes to go to the barricades. There are 2 aspects of this matter. The first is the Opposition's oft stated objection to the very notion of a Superior Court. This matter will recur several times in the consideration of subsequent clauses. I do not propose to argue all over again whether there should be a Superior Court.  Senator Greenwood  did not do that. The Government does not resile from the stand that it has taken in the past, for the reasons that have been stated in previous debates. We still espouse the proposition of a Superior Court. It is no secret that the Superior Court Bill will be presented again to the Senate. I see no point in arguing all over again at this stage the case for a Superior Court. I formally state that we adhere, in respect of this clause and of other clauses, to the proposition of a Superior Court. We will not divide the Committee on this matter, but I adumbrate that if this clause is defeated we will be proposing the insertion in clause 19 of a sub-clause which preserves the right of a presidential member to enjoy the privileges of the Judges Pension Act. That is an amendment which, if necessary, I will move later. I suggest that in all the circumstances it might be better to postpone consideration of this clause until after we have considered clause 1 9. 
Further consideration of clause postponed. 
Clauses 10 and 1 1- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 12. 
A full-time member shall not, except with the approval of the Minister, engage in paid employment outside the duties of his office. 
This also is an amendment about which we do not feel very strongly but I would put these considerations to  Senator Greenwood:  The proposal that members of the Tribunal should be allowed to engage in other occupations does not apply only to those whose salary strikes  Senator Greenwood  as being sufficient to deter them from any other activities. It also applies to other members of the Tribunal -for example, to accountants, valuers, etc.- who are paid considerably less than the high emolument to which  Senator Greenwood  has referred. 
I think that it says something for the limitations which our society places on the activities of some of its leading citizens that this would be almost taken for granted in a society such as in the United States, where a man who chooses one occupation is not considered to be limited for his entire life to that occupation. In the United States it is quite commonplace for professors of law to act as arbitrators in disputes between companies or between trade unions and companies. It is quite accepted that such people will accept lecturing engagements. In fact, it is accepted that the special talents which have enabled them to get their high office should be at the disposal of the community in extra-curricular activities. 
I find nothing horrifying in the proposition that a member of this Tribunal might accept, for example, a part-time lecturing position. I do not apprehend that activities such as that would in any way diminish his efficiency or his devotion to his main task. I suggest that the Opposition might reconsider its attitude towards the amendment which is, I think, limiting the activities of people who could spread their talents more widely to the benefit of the community at large. Having said that, I indicate that it also is not an amendment on which I propose to divide the Committee. 
As a result of the incorporation of a schedule into the Bill, it is necessary to move a small amendment to clause 23. 1 move: 
In sub-clause (2) after sub-section 26 (6), insert 'or a provision of the Schedule '. 
I do not think it is necessary to elaborate on that. I think it is self-explanatory. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Clauses 24 and 25- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 26. 
1 ) An enactment may provide that applications may be made to the Tribunal- 
for review of decisions made in the exercise of powers conferred by that enactment; or 
for review of decisions made in the exercise of powers conferred, or that may be conferred, by another enactment having effect under that enactment. 
Where an enactment, being an Act or an Ordinance of a Territory, authorizes the making of regulations prescribing matters necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to the Act or Ordinance, regulations under the Act or Ordinance may provide, notwithstanding that so to provide would be inconsistent with the Act or Ordinance, that applications may be made to the Tribunal for review of decisions made in the exercise of powers conferred by the Act or Ordinance, and, where regulations under the Act or Ordinance so provide, provision may also be made by regulations under the Act or Ordinance modifying or excluding the operation of any provision of the Act or Ordinance providing for appeals from or reviews of decisions in respect of which applications may be made to the Tribunal for review. 
Where an enactment makes provision in accordance with sub-section ( 1 ) or (2), that enactment, or another enactment having effect under that enactment- 
a ) shall specify the person or persons to whose decisions the provision applies; 
For the purposes of this section, a failure by a person to do an act or thing within the period prescribed by an enactment as the period within which that person is required or permitted to do that act or thing shall be deemed to constitute the making of a decision by that person at the expiration of that period not to do that act or thing. 
Where an enactment provides for applications to the Tribunal- 
that enactment, or another enactment having effect under that enactment, may also include a provision that a non-presidential member shall not exercise, or participate in the exercise of, the powers of the Tribunal in relation to such applications unless he was appointed as a non-presidential member in accordance with a procedure, or has special qualifications,  specified in the provision, and sub-section 21(1) has effect subject to any provision so included; and 
that enactment, or another enactment having effect under that enactment, may also include provisions adding to, excluding or modifying the operation of any of the provisions of sections 22, 23, 27, 29, 32, 33 and 35 or of sub-section 43 ( 1 ) or (2) in relation to such applications, and those sections and sub-sections have effect subject to any provisions so included. 
I move: 
Leave out sub-clause (2), substitute the following subclause: 
An enactment may make provision under this section that is inconsistent with a provision of the Schedule and, where an enactment so makes provision, any provision of the Schedule that is inconsistent with that provision of the enactment is of no effect.'. 
This new sub-clause enables other enactments to make provision for appeals to the Tribunal inconsistent with the Schedule. This new subclause is made necessary by reason of the fact that in some cases the Schedule confers rights of appeal under regulations. Without the new subclause it would not be possible for an amendment of the regulations concerned to vary the provisions of the Schedule. The deletion of existing sub-clause (2) removes the power for regulations made under another Act to make provisions for appeals under that Act inconsistent with the provisions of that Act. 
-That is denned in clause 3 which in part states:  enactment ' means- 
an Act; 
an Ordinance of a Territory; or 
an instrument (including rules, regulations or bylaws) made under an Act or under such an Ordinance, and includes an enactment as amended by another enactment; 
I apprehend the honourable senator's reservations about this clause, but I suggest that it is worthy of trial in its present form.  Senator Wright  suggests that it is a simple matter to amend what we have by statute, but it is not all that simple. It takes some time to get amendments of that kind through the Parliament. I suggest despite the reservations that he has- I must confess, as I have done, that I see some point in them- that the Bill is worth a trial in its present form. If the honourable senator's fears emerge as having some substance 1 think there is sufficient consensus in this Parliament, and there would be in future Parliaments, about what we are setting out to achieve in this Bill for an amendment to cure those vices to be assured of a passage in this Parliament. 
I suggest that this is a Bill about which there is comparative unanimity on both sides of the Parliament. We are setting out to establish a machinery which will do something to mitigate the rigours of bureaucratic and ministerial, shall I say, tyranny. I do not think there is any real contest on either side as to the desirability of that machinery and I do not think there need be any real anxiety that the Bill in its present form will be abused. If it is, I suggest that the Parliament will readily devote itself to an amendment to cure such vices as may emerge. 
I am indebted for the contributions that have come from the Opposition spokesmen on this matter. I think they have disclosed a shortcoming in the Bill and I am prepared to move an amendment to clause 3 ( 1 ) (c) to make it read as follows:  regulations made under an Act. 
I do not know whether that would go far enough to allay the misgivings expressed by the Opposition, but I agree entirely that we should confine ourselves to legislative measures which are examinable by the Parliament. I do not know whether I am in order to move this amendment,  Mr Temporary Chairman-  we are going back. I seek your guidance on this matter. Consideration of the clause we had reached, clause 26, drives us back to the definition clause, clause 3(1) (c). If it is in order, I move that clause 3(1)(c) be amended to read:  regulations made under an Act. 
Yes, in place of the existing clause 3 ( 1 ) (c). 
I wonder if this matter could be deferred for a few moments,  Mr Temporary Chairman.  My advisers point out to me that this amendment would have some consequences that were not foreseen by me when I foreshadowed it. But if it could be postponed to a later time in the consideration of the Bill in order that we may examine the consequences, but with the idea of moving an amendment later, on which would involve the considerations that I have just mentioned, I should like to do so. I therefore move: 
That further consideration of clause 26 be postponed to a later time. 

 -Yes, Mr Temporary Chairman. 

I am sorry,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  but which clause am I to speak on? 

 Senator JAMES McCLELLAND I understood we were postponing consideration of clause 26,  Mr Temporary Chairman.  There would be other amendments to clause 26 that are unrelated to the problem we were just considering but in all the circumstances, having postponed consideration of that part of the clause, I suggest that we should postpone consideration of the other parts of the clause as well for the time being. 

 -Yes, Mr Temporary Chairman, I am suggesting that all amendments relating to clause 26 be postponed for the moment. 
Further consideration of clause 26 postponed. 
Proposed new clause 26a. 
I move: 
After clause 26, insert the following new clause: 26a. (1) The provisions of the Schedule have effect according to their tenor notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act (other than sub-section 26 (2) ) or in any provision of any other enactment in force at the commencement of this Act. 
A reference in sub-section 26(4) or 27(1) to an enactment includes a reference to the Schedule. 
The regulations may amend the Schedule- 
a ) by inserting in the Schedule- 
provisions authorizing the making of applications to the Tribunal for review of decisions made in the exercise of powers conferred by an enactment; and 
where a provision authorizing the making of such an application is contained in the Schedule- provisions, having effect in relation to the application, of the kinds mentioned in paragraphs 26 (6) (a) and (b); 
by inserting in the Schedule a provision modifying or excluding the operation of any provision of an enactment in force at the commencement of this Act that provides for the review otherwise than by the Tribunal of decisions in respect of which applications may be made to the Tribunal for review; and 
by omitting any provision of the Schedule. 
An amendment of the Schedule made by the regulations applies only in respect of decisions made after the amendment takes effect. '. 
Once again I express my gratitude to  Senator Wright  for pointing out what I concede is a weakness in the amendment that the Government has proposed. It is a weakness that is there by inadvertence. What we were seeking to deal with in paragraph (c) of proposed new clause 26a (3) was the situation in which an Act had been repealed. I suggest that if we were to add to paragraph (c) such words as would make it read 'by omitting any provision of the Schedule that has ceased to have effect' we would achieve the purpose that is aimed at in the proposition advanced by  Senator Wright.  I agree that if we are to take away a right which is conferred by this statute it should be done by a substantive amendment of the Act. All that we were seeking to achieve in paragraph (c) was to deal with the position in which an Act had been repealed. I do not know whether those words would satisfy the objection raised by  Senator Wright.  I invite him to give us his thoughts on that aspect. 
I am doubtful whether the alteration to my formulation really makes much difference, but I would be content to accept the formulation suggested by  Senator Wright  and I am prepared to move accordingly. 
-Before any motion is formally moved,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I wonder whether the final consideration of the amendment I have advanced could be postponed until a little later to enable the draftsman to examine it carefully with a view to finding a formulation that might satisfy all the requirements of the Opposition and the Government. 
Further consideration of proposed new clause 26a postponed. 
Clause 27. 
1 ) Where an enactment provides that an application may be made to the Tribunal for a review of a decision, the application may be made by or on behalf of any person or persons (including Australia or an authority of Australia) whose interests are affected by the decision. 
The Government feels that the sphere of exercise of ministerial discretion embraced in sub-clause (2) of clause 28 is one exception to the proposition that ministerial discretions should be open to scrutiny. It is a matter on which the Department of Defence in particular feels very strongly and it is the reason why it is included in the Bill. I point out that under the scheme of the Bill- and let us read clauses 28 and 36 together- there is no information on which a Minister makes a decision which is closed off from the scrutiny of the Tribunal. In any event any document involved does go to the Tribunal, and in matters other than security considerations, the Tribunal may make it available to the applicant. The only case in which the reasons for a decision are not given to an applicant are those involving the considerations expressed in subclause (2) of clause 28. 
The Opposition's assumption that a certificate under clause 28 is a bar to an application to the Tribunal is based on a wrong proposition. A certificate under sub-clause (2) of clause 28 does not bar an appeal to the Tribunal. The effect of that certificate is that an applicant is not entitled to a statement of reasons if the disclosure of that statement would, in the opinion of the Minister giving the certificate, be contrary to the public interest for reasons set out in sub-clause (2) of clause 28. The power to give a certificate has been vested in any Minister rather than just the Attorney-General for the following reasons: Firstly, the right to claim Crown privilege against the production of a document in ordinary proceedings in court resides in any Minister and is not restricted to the Attorney-General. Secondly, the appropriate Minister to give a certificate, we believe is the Minister who is responsible for the subject matter in question. For example, he will be the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Foreign Affairs or, in the case of confidential material supplied to the Department of Social Security, that Minister. 
I think that  Senator Greenwood  in his comments has traversed both his proposed amendments, amendment No. 7 and amendment No. 8, so it may be appropriate to comment on what he said about his proposed amendment No. 8 now. The effect of that amendment would be to delete the paragraph which would empower the Minister to give a certificate under clause 28(2) for reasons other than those set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) of that sub-clause, namely security, defence, international relations and the disclosure of Cabinet proceedings. In the House of Representatives the Opposition objected to what it described as a blanket authority being given to a Minister to certify that a document is not to be disclosed. The Opposition argument also assumed that the ministerial certificate was the end of the matter. Two things may be said about that. First, the courts have not attempted to define the limits of the categories of public interest that may give rise to a claim of Crown privilege in respect of the production of documents in judicial proceedings. One may give obvious examples where it would be right to give a certificate on the ground of public interest, for example, where the statement of reasons to an applicant would necessarily involve the disclosure of the private affairs of another person. But it is impossible, I suggest, to foresee in advance all of the categories of public interest which would justify a refusal to disclose information to a person who wished to appeal to the Tribunal. 
A second consideration is that the certificate of the Minister on a ground other than those set out in paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-clause (2) of clause 28 is not final. It is reviewable by the Tribunal as is set out in clause 36 sub-clause (3). Thus the position is the same as in a claim of Crown privilege on the ground of public interest before the courts. If the Tribunal considers that the claim of public interest is not made out by the Minister it can order the release of the information to the person who applied for it. To sum up, we believe, while understanding exactly the motivations of the Opposition in moving its amendment, that the amendment is based on an unjustifiable fear of the effects of the Bill as it stands at present. We believe that the exceptions that we are making to the general requirements of disclosure can be justified in the national interest. 
I wonder whether this amendment could be postponed until a little later today while we attempt to find a formula which would satisfy the objections of the Opposition and at the same time achieve what the clause in its present form aims to achieve, that is, the preservation of the right of privacy of the individual. 
Clause 28 postponed. 
Clauses 29 to 35- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 36. 
1 ) If a Minister certifies, by writing signed by him, that the disclosure of information concerning a specified matter, or the disclosure of the contents of a document, would be contrary to the public interest- 
by reason that it would prejudice the security, defence or international relations of Australia; 
by reason that it would involve the disclosure of deliberations or decisions of the Cabinet or of a Committee of the Cabinet; or 
c) for any other reason specified in the certificate, the following provisions of this section have effect. 
This section excludes the operation of any rules of law relating to the public interest that would otherwise apply in relation to the disclosure of information or of the contents of documents in proceedings before the Tribunal, but does not affect any rules of law relating to privilege in relation to the disclosure of information or of the contents of documents in such proceedings. 
The Government will not oppose this amendment, but by way of explanation I might say that the words objected to are in the Bill for more abundant precaution. The words which the amendment moved by  Senator Greenwood  proposes to omit are there in order to protect claims of privilege that may be made on grounds other than the public interest; for instance, a claim of privilege based on the solicitor-client relationship. I suppose it might be argued that this abundant precaution is over cautious, but the Government does not feel excited enough about it to insist on the clause remaining in its present form. For that reason, the Government will not oppose the proposed amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Further consideration of clause 36 postponed. 
Clauses 37 to 39- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 40. 
The oath or affirmation to be taken or made by a person for the purposes of this section is an oath or affirmation that the answers he will give to questions asked him will be true. 
I shall answer the question raised by  Senator Missen  which has been answered largely by  Senator Wright.  The protection against self-incrimination is contained in clause 49 (3) and clause 51. 1 would suggest that the effect of the amendments, if carried, would be to give a witness before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal greater rights than witnesses in any other court have. In my view, no cogent reasons have been advanced why a witness appearing before this Tribunal should have greater rights than a witness appearing before a court. I would point out also that the notion that what makes a need for such an exceptional right apparent is the power which this Tribunal has to issue a summons in its own right does not appear to indicate a genuine exception at all because that is an inherent right which resides in most courts. Further, I see a danger in the proposed new sub-clause (3B) which on my reading of it, would exclude a power to take proceedings against a witness who perjured himself before this Tribunal. The proposed new sub-clause states: 
Evidence given by a person before the Tribunal is not admissible against him in any criminal proceedings other than proceedings for offences against this Act. 
If we read the Bill closely we see that there is no provision which makes perjury an offence. The offence of perjury is created by the Crimes Act. Accordingly, I think it is rather dangerous to have the proposed new sub-clause in its present form. Obviously the numbers are with those who favour the amendments. I would suggest for the consideration of the Opposition that if the amendments are persisted with these words should be added at the end of proposed new subclause (3b):  or for the giving of false evidence. 
I would not oppose the idea of the clause being postponed if that will assist to produce an amendment which is more consonant with the Government's notion of the form that the Bill should take. But I would like to point to, I think, one fallacy that existed in the argument in respect of this clause put by  Senator Greenwood.  It relates to the proposition that the ground on which it can be argued that a witness before this Tribunal can, in certain circumstances, be distinguished from a witness in the ordinary sense is that an unwilling witness can appear before the Tribunal on the summons of the Tribunal itself. But of course it is notorious that an unwilling witness may be summoned in any court. Any party to a proceeding may issue a subpoena to a person to give evidence and, if it is served in the proper way, that person is under an obligation to appear before the court even though he may be unwilling or hostile. The same goes for a criminal proceeding. Either the Crown or the defence can issue a subpoena to a person to attend. That person may be most unwilling to attend, but in the normal course of events he would not be entitled to be represented. 
I do not think that a case is made out here for treating a witness- even one who is present on the summons of the Tribunal itself- in any way which is different from the manner in which a witness is treated by the law in general in other courts. If it will assist to get a better formulation of what the Opposition seeks to achieve in respect of clause 40, 1 would have no objection to the clause being postponed. 
As I stated earlier, the Government's position is that it adheres to the proposition that the words 'Superior Court' should be retained in the Bill wherever appearing for the simple reason that it is still wedded to the notion of a Superior Court and in fact will be reintroducing legislation proposing a Superior Court which has already been rejected by the Senate. I would foreshadow that if the Opposition persists with the various amendments designed to remove the words 'Superior Court' and to substitute the words 'Supreme Court of a State or Territory', we would offer the suggestion that instead the words 'Industrial Court' should be substituted. The reason why we do that is that we believe an administrative tribunal which is dealing with the question of the discretions of Federal Ministers and public servants and institutions generally should be appealed from to a Federal court. We believe it is not appropriate that State courts should be the ultimate courts of appeal in matters which are within the province of the Federal Government and its instrumentalities. 
There is of course a further argument in favour of having one court as the ultimate appeal court in these matters, and that is the desirability of achieving some sort of uniformity of approach in these matters. I put now a proposition in respect of not only this amendment but also all amendments involving the words 'Superior Court' for the Opposition to consider whether it would be prepared to accept the words 'Industrial Court' instead of, as it proposes, the words 'Supreme Court of a State or Territory'. 
I find it rather odd that  Senator Greenwood  should suggest, at least by inference, that the Australian Industrial Court is not an ordinary court of the land. I also find odd his plea of uniformity of Opposition attitude that wherever the words 'Superior Court' bob up in legislation, as a matter of principle the Opposition seeks to replace those words with the words 'Supreme Court' of the relevant State, because that is not the uniform practice of the Opposition. We only have to look at the Trade Practices Act which passed through this Senate last year. The Opposition had every opportunity to amend that Act but in fact it allowed the Australian Industrial Court to remain in that legislation as the relevant court to hear appeals. I suggest that there is nothing odd in my proposition, even though there is something odd in the name Industrial Court', when one thinks of the extension of its jurisdiction from that on which it has traditionally been based. But there is an historical and logical explanation for that. 
The Australian Industrial Court is gathering additional jurisdiction primarily because of the absence of the type of court that we have in mind in the Superior Court. The industrial court, I suggest, is going to get more and more jurisdiction as Commonwealth legislation grows. Apart from the Bankruptcy Court, it is the only court which exists below the level of the High Court in the Commonwealth constellation and it is the logical court to hear such matters. 
I repeat my appeal to  Senator Greenwood  that, despite what he claims to be a uniform policy of the Opposition on this matter, it is not a policy without exceptions as I have shown in the case of the Trade Practices Act. It appears to me to be overwhelmingly logical that the appropriate court to hear appeals in matters of law from the decisions of this Tribunal is the only Commonwealth court which exists apart from the High Court and the Bankruptcy Court. For those reasons I repeat the suggestion that the Industrial Court should be the appropriate court of appeal. 
Theoretically, I see a lot of force in the proposition advanced by  Senator Wright,  but I think  Senator Missen  has put his finger on the main objection to altering the subclause referred to. That is that there may be pending matters under existing legislation; for example, actions under the Customs Act which may be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction, or actions under the Taxation Administration Act which in the Australian Capital Territory are maintainable in the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court. It would be necessary to introduce into the Bill quite elaborate transitional provisions if we were to attempt to give the Bill any retrospective operation. I suppose it is a little arbitrary to say that injustices that have occurred up to now will not be subject to the sort of redress that is envisaged in the Bill; nonetheless the fact remains that the Government had to have a starting point somewhere. I do not think it is advisable to reopen matters that have been decided. On balance, whilst acknowledging that there is some force in what  Senator Wright  puts, I think the Committee would be wise to adhere to the intendment of this clause; that is, to confine the remedies to events occurring after the proclamation of the Bill. 
Proposed new schedule agreed to. 
Postponed clause 5. 
The matter for consideration previously was whether the Government would accept the proposition of a named number of Deputy Presidents. The answer is that, on consideration, the Government has decided against such a proposition. It is not a deep matter of principle, but the Government feels that it is not possible to conjecture at this stage just how heavy will be the work load of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. For that reason at this stage the Government would prefer to keep the number open. 
Clause agreed to. 
Postponed clause 9. 
I move: 
Before sub-clause ( 1 ), insert the following sub-clause:  (Ia)  Subject to this section, the Judges' Pensions Act 1968-1974 has effect as if a presidential member had the status of a Judge of the Australian Industrial Court.'. 
The Government considers that the position of persons in this category in relation to pensions would be subject to considerable doubt- in fact they would not be covered- unless this subclause were inserted. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Postponed clause 26. 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman, the Government has made some further amendments to its proposed amendment, designed primarily to satisfy the objections- the justifiable objections- raised by  Senator Wright.  What is proposed now is that the existing sub-clause (2) be omitted and in its place the following words be inserted: 
An enactment (being an Act, an Ordinance of a Territory or regulations made under an Act) may make provision under this section that is inconsistent with a provision of the  Scheule  and, where such enactment makes provision, any provision of the Schedule that is inconsistent with that provision of the enactment is of no effect. 
I seek leave to amend the proposed new clause by the addition of these words in sub-clause (3) (c): that has ceased to have effect by virtue of the operation of any other enactment. 
Sub-clause (3) (c) will now read: 
By omitting any provision to the schedule that has ceased to have effect by virtue of the operation of any other enactment. 
I adopt the words of  Senator Wright-  it merely has the effect of getting rid of dead wood. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (3) (c), add 'that has ceased to have effect by virtue of the operation of any other enactment. 
Amendment to proposed new clause agreed to. 
Proposed new clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Postponed clause 28. 
This is an exact repeat of the exercise that we have just gone through in respect of clause 28. I seek leave to move an amendment, which is to delete the existing paragraph (c) of sub-clause (1), and to insert in its place a new paragraph (c) in the following terms: 
for any other reason specified in the certificate that could form the basis for a claim by the Crown in right of Australia in a judicial proceeding that the information or the contents of the document should not be disclosed,'. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (1), leave out paragraph (c), and substitute the following paragraph: 
for any other reason specified in the certificate that could form the basis for a claim by the Crown in right of Australia in a judicial proceeding that the information or the contents of the document should not. be disclosed,'. 
The same arguments apply to this sub-clause as applied to clause 28.I think it will be necessary also for  Senator Greenwood,  if he is so minded, to withdraw his original amendment. 
I should like to say that I, too, welcome the passage of this Bill. I believe that it is one of the most significant Bills that has been passed by this Parliament in the time that I have been here. I am particularly gratified because some distinguished lawyers who have long been friends of mine were associated in the preparation of the original report which formed the basis of this legislation. I must confess that when I first read the report I was not too sanguine that it would be translated into something on the statute books in such a short time. Even though it may appear to those who have been listening sporadically to the debate today to be merely a lawyer's Bill, it is anything but that. It is a Bill to safeguard the rights of the citizens of this country against abuses of power by Ministers and by bureaucrats. I do not use the word 'bureaucrats' pejoratively. I believe that in a period of growing governmental power, it is essential that the ordinary citizens should have the sorts of safeguards that are enshrined in this legislation. I should like to reciprocate the remarks of  Senator Greenwood  and thank the Opposition for its cooperation and for the spirit in which this debate has been conducted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move: 
Thai the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have my second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to have my second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
I welcome the honourable senator's sudden interest in the State of Tasmania which I assume is not unrelated to forthcoming events in that State. 
I certainly will be there. I will be in Tasmania doing what I can. As the honourable representative of that distinguished State,  Senator Devitt,  reminds me, I was in that beautiful State earlier this week. I will be returning to Tasmania to take part in a byelection which the Government undoubtedly will win because of its splendid record in relation to that State. 
I welcome that interjection from another distinguished representative of the State of Tasmania,  Senator Marriott.  As to the specific points raised by the Leader of the Opposition, I was unaware that there was a crisis in transport in relation to Tasmania. If there is, I will investigate it and do what I can to help solve the problem. As to his predictions of my role in a presumptive portfolio to which he referred, if such an eventuality occurs I certainly will attempt to do my best to carry out what is a very onerous and difficult job. 
-I welcome this quite adventitious flowering of interest in the affairs of the beautiful State of Tasmania. I am not aware of the activities that were mentioned by the honourable senator but it would not surprise me if what he said were true because it would be merely another illustration of the deep abiding and expanding interest which the Australian Government has always taken in the affairs of Tasmania since we came to office. I will however make the inquiries which he suggests and let him have the figures for which he asks. I think, as the Leader of the Government in the Senate stated earlier, this would be just another example of the deep and abiding interest of the Australian Government in the affairs of that State. 
-The Opposition will have an opportunity, if not today at least later in the week, to indicate its economic rationality by opposing, if it chooses, a Bill which will come before this Parliament to authorise a grant under Section 96 of the Constitution to the firm Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd which is centred in the town of Burnie. 
Well, the economy of Tasmania is a particularly fragile one due, primarily, to the neglect of the interests of that State during 23 years of misrule by the previous Government. I do not have the exact numbers of unemployed in Tasmania but I point out that this Government has a series of programs designed to assist those who unfortunately are disemployed at the present time. They include the special assistance to nonmetropolitan areas, the Regional Employment Development scheme and various other schemes. But I should like some assistance from honourable senators opposite in telling me whether unemployment in Tasmania is a novel feature of the regime that presently is running Australia. Is it suggested that under the previous Government there was never any unemployment in the State of Tasmania? I suggest that any of the problems that confront Tasmania at the present time are due primarily to the long neglect of that State by the previous Liberal-Country Party Governments. 
-I was unaware that another company in Tasmania was in difficulties. I would have thought that  Senator Townley,  as a man who has the interests of that beautiful State very close to his heart, would have approached me and informed me of the difficulties facing Cadbury Schweppes Pty Ltd. Now that I have become apprised of that company's difficulties I will certainly give them my close attention. This Government has instanced on several occasions its particularly close interest in the problems of Tasmania. Examples were given by the Leader of the Government in the Senate earlier today. The problems of the Electrolytic Zinc of Australasia Ltd and Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd have received the close attention of this Government. I can assure the honourable senator that we will give equally sympathetic consideration to the problems of Cadburys. 
I recall the honourable senator's question. After he asked it I had some informal discussions with the Attorney-General who expressed the hope that the Bill would be introduced during the present sessional period. I know that the Parliamentary Counsel has been heavily overworked due largely to the activist nature of the present Government which is ever eager to reform areas of Australian life which require reform. It may be that in the press of producing Bills to reform these areas the necessary legislation to introduce the Australian Legal Aid Office as a statutory body has been pushed down the queue. I hope not. I will take the matter up again with my colleague the Attorney-General and I shall let the honourable senator have an answer, I hope today. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report by the Working Party on Territorial Criminal Law together with a short ministerial statement. As will be apparent, this is a very bulky document and due to the limited number of copies presently available, reference copies of the report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. The report will be distributed to senators when additional copies become available. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
A Bill for this purpose was introduced by the then Attorney-General in the Senate in December 1973. It lapsed when Parliament was prorogued on the occasion of the Queen's visit. It was reintroduced in March 1974 and was defeated by the Senate the following month. Another Bill was then introduced into the House of Representatives and was passed by that House in July last year. That Bill failed on 26 February this year, on a tied vote, to receive a second reading in the Senate. The Senate is thoroughly familiar with the terms and arguments in favour of this Bill and I accordingly ask for leave to have my second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Committee does not insist on the amendment of the Senate to which the House of Representatives has disagreed. 
As honourable senators will recall, the amendment which was moved by the Opposition proposed that a section of not less than two of the staff of the Parliamentary Counsel should be seconded to draft proposed laws, amendments and instruments at the request of members of Parliament in priority to services for Ministers. As has previously been indicated both in the Senate and in another place, the amendment is unacceptable to the Government for 2 reasons. Firstly, in the opinion of the Government the needs of private members of Parliament, both senators and members of the House of Representatives, would be less adequately met under the amendment than under the present arrangements. Secondly, the amendment would seriously prejudice the legislative program of the Government which we claim should be paramount. 
Under the arrangements that have existed for many years the services of the official draftsmen are available to private members with one qualification, namely that the Attorney-General may decline to provide those services in circumstances that would substantially prejudice the legislative program of the Government. As I pointed out when the Bill was being considered by the Senate previously, this qualification has not in practice, under the present Government at any rate, prevented the reasonable requirements of private members being met expeditiously and efficiently. Assistance has been given to members of both Houses on numerous occasions and in many instances very substantial drafting work has been done. 
The most common need of private members and in particular of official Opposition spokesmen is for assistance with amendments to current Bills. This is often required at very short notice and under the present system the First Parliamentary Counsel is usually able to make available the services of the draftsman responsible for the Bill itself. The obvious advantage of that is that he is the man who is most familiar with the philosophy, intent and detail of the particular Bill and he is able to deal with the matter quickly. As we all know, speed is the essence in most of these cases. Moreover, with the consent of the member concerned the draftsman may be able to assist in reaching a form of amendment which may be acceptable to the Government, thereby expediting the whole process. 
If this Bill is amended as proposed it could hardly be expected that the services of a draftsman, other than the two specifically allotted, would be available. Even if those draftsmen were competent and experienced they would scarcely be able to prepare satisfactory amendments in the time usually required because of the need to familiarise themselves with the details of a Bill. Moreover, acute problems of priorities might arise among private members themselves. For example, if 2 private members each asked for assistance in the drafting of a major Bill the 2 draftsmen might be fully occupied for months. How would questions of priority be decided? A private member could ask for the drafting of an elaborate Bill that would have no chance of becoming law because it did not have the support of the Government. In the meantime legitimate requests by other members for assistance with amendments would not be fulfilled. 
Any difficulties that arise under the present system- they are rare and certainly less than they could be under the system envisaged by the amendment- would be attributable to a shortage of skilled staff in the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel to cope with the enormous workload that now exists. The First Parliamentary Counsel is making constant efforts to increase his staff and, as  Senator Greenwood  would appreciate from his recollection of his days as AttorneyGeneral, parliamentary draftsmen do not grow on every rose bush. I believe it is a mistake to think that if this amendment were passed a couple of experienced and competent draftsmen would immediately become available to provide the services contemplated by the amendment. The search for competent parliamentary draftsmen would be as difficult as ever. Frankly, we believe that if the amendment were carried it would be more or less a pious amendment because it would not result in any solution of the problem- we acknowledge that it is a problemwhich the amendment seeks to solve. For that reason we oppose the amendment. 
In the abstract, the argument advanced by  Senator Missen  is cogent and persuasive, but in practical terms, I suggest that the back bencher in this place really has little about which to complain. I can recall that even before I entered the Senate I was approached, in my capacity as a solicitor with some experience of workers' compensation matters, to assist the then shadow Minister for Labor- this was before the present Government came to office- in advising about the drafting of a model workers' compensation Bill for Government employees. I came to Canberra on several occasions. I engaged in discussions. 
Available to the shadow Minister were the services of a parliamentary draftsman in the person of  Mr Koltz,  who is here advising me today. He must have given, just in these discussions about the general philosophy about the proposed Bill, many hours of his time being briefed as to what was to go into the Bill- not to mention the time that he must have spent in drafting it. It was a most elaborate detailed code. I can recall- this was my first direct experience with the parliamentary process- being enormously impressed by the fact that these services were freely available to a member of the Opposition. A Bill emerged as detailed and as finely tuned as a Bill that would be presented to this Parliament. I know that recently  Senator Wright  had an experience of being refused the assistance of parliamentary counsel. But, with respect, I would suggest that his request was not a reasonable one. What he was proposing was a measure of assistance that would have tied up the services of a skilled parliamentary counsel for what I believe would have been an unreasonable period of time. 
I would certainly not oppose the granting of leave to the honourable senator to do so. I am not saying this by way of criticism of him. He is one of the most responsible senators in this chamber. He takes his duties so seriously that he probably does require the assistance of parliamentary counsel more than most. I would say that ordinarily that would not be refused to him. But there have to be some limits. I am not suggesting that the parliamentary counsel belong only to the government of the day and that their services should be denied to back bench members of the Parliament. I believe that within reason they should be available to all members of the Parliament. But can anybody in conscience say that that has not been the case? I suggest that the case that I have instanced is a characteristic case. I suggest that that is what is available in the way of service from the Parliamentary Counsel. 
I seriously suggest to honourable senators opposite that the service that would be available to them, if the amendment were carried, would not be as good as the service that is available to them now. The main point that I was attempting to make was that, in considering amendments to the legislation that is before the Parliament, which after all is the main call upon the services of parliamentary counsel by back bench members of the Parliament or by members of the Opposition, the service provided is really at its best when it comes from the counsel who has been responsible for drafting the Bill which is sought to be amended. If we were to have a couple of people who were not drafting Bills but who were available purely to do the sort of service for which honourable senators opposite are asking the service that would be available would be diminished. It would not be as good as the service that honourable senators opposite are getting now. 
I seriously put to honourable senators opposite that the notion that we can just go out, advertise for parliamentary counsel and get competent counsel who will be available to perform the services requested by honourable senators opposite is an unrealistic notion.  Senator Greenwood  would know as well as anybody that the search for people who are competent to perform this highly skilled task is an almost hopeless one. I can remember that when we were in Opposition I constantly asked questions of  Senator Greenwood  as to the expansion of the service of the Parliamentary Counsel and that he constantly replied, I believe truthfully, that he was trying as hard as he could but he just could not get parliamentary counsel. I did not mean to convey, as was suggested by  Senator Missen,  that if this amendment were carried the Government would not make a serious attempt to get the 2 extra parliamentary counsel referred to. That is not an attitude to which I would subscribe. I should think that we would try as hard as we could to get them, but I really cannot hold out much hope of being able to get them. So I say seriously to the Opposition that in its own interests it should not insist upon this amendment because it will not serve its purpose. 
Question put: 
That the Senate does not insist on the amendment of the Senate to which the House of Representatives has disagreed. 
As I stated earlier I do not know the details of this transaction. They are confidential between the Commonwealth Trading Bank and Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Limited. I had made a similar calculation. I think  Senator Cotton  has drawn a reasonable inference. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I am aware that my Department has a backlog of applications under the NEAT scheme from persons seeking long tertiary courses. I am informed that this backlog is being progressively reduced and that when an application is approved benefits date back to the commencement of the course or to the date of the application, if that is later. I am advised also that new procedures introduced by my predecessor will enable the rate of determining applications to be significantly accelerated and that my Department is currently reviewing what additional resources are necessary to ensure that applications can be determined expeditiously in the future. I remind honourable senators that my Department has a responsibility to investigate carefully all applications under the NEAT scheme and to ensure that funds are not committed, particularly to long periods of training, unless it is satisfied that the training is the most appropriate solution to an individual 's employment difficulty. I am advised that these investigations often require the applicant either to reconsider his or her initial training program or to provide additional information to support the proposal. I understand that these inquiries are often lengthy and time consuming and this explains the delay. In any event, I assure the honourable senator that every effort is being made to speed up the entire process, including that of notification. 
I am sure that the honourable senator with his well known and well deserved reputation for fairness would not want to have this matter decided without the proprietor of the karate institute being given an opportunity to state his side of the case. For that reason my Department has arranged for him to come to Canberra this week and state whether there is any substance in the allegations that have been made by the honourable senator. Of course, if it is true that he is holding the passports of the 2 Malaysians, that would be clearly illegal because no person has the authority to hold or withdraw a passport except the government which has issued it. However, inquiries are proceeding. I hope to be able to let the honourable senator have an answer very soon. 
in reply- I make a brief contribution to Bass day, even though I also suffer from the handicap from which the Liberal candidate suffers in that I am a mainlander. This has been a curious debate. It began with a stern economic lecture from  Senator Cotton.  As is usual with his contributions, I found myself in agreement with much of what he said. At the outset, before dealing with his arguments and the other arguments that have been presented, I would like to answer a couple of questions which he raised.  Senator Cotton  asked what was the rate of interest on the loan and what was the duration of the loan. I can only say that the interest rate is a matter between the company and the relevant bank. The reimbursement is for interest actually paid up to 3 1 December 1975. If  Senator Cotton  reads clause 3 of the Bill, he will find that it is a simple calculation to work out the interest rate. The duration of the loan, I would suggest is irrelevant. All we are concerned about is providing money to pay. interest up to 31 December 1975. Speaking for myself, I must say that I do not know what the duration of the loan is, but I would suggest that it has got nothing to do with what we are discussing here. 
I understand, but I can assure the honourable senator that there will be no further advances to this company, and I hope that there will be no further advances of this nature to any other company. 
The pronouncements that we have had from various speakers on the opposite side of the chamber, varying from the wisdom that fell from  Senator Cotton  to the inanities, if that is not too harsh a word, that fell from  Senator Townley,  are irrelevant to this debate because, as  Senator Grimes  demonstrated and as  Senator Bessell  agreed, the difficulties and the problems confronting this company have little to do with anything that this Government has done or has not done. Especially they have almost nothing to do with the reviled 25 per cent tariff cut of which  Senator Greenwood  tried to make so much. He saw fit to quote from the 'Temporary Assistance Authority report'. But I challenge him to find in the passage that he read or, indeed, in any other passage in the Authority's report any claim that the difficulties of this company were due to the 25 per cent tariff cut. In fact - 
What was put to the Temporary Assistance Authority was whether the difficulties of this company were due to the 25 per cent tariff cut because, if the Authority had said so, under various structural adjustment schemes that had been devised by the Government the company would have been entitled to relief of a different kind. It was because the Authority had found that the difficulties of this company were not due to the tariff cut that the Government, in its wisdom, decided to seek another method of helping it. 

 Senator Wright, with characteristic hyperbole, even implied that the company's difficulties had something to do with dislocation of shipping and that that was our fault like bad weather, marital disagreements, the collapse of the Hobart bridge and cyclone Tracy; they are all, presumably, the fault of this Government. I suggest that  Senator Townley  said nothing which requires an answer. He gave us a curious little uninformed lecture about the nature of inflation. He even made one curious suggestion that to further the socialistic ambitions of the Government we were bent on some course of action designed deliberately to wreck the economy. I invite honourable senators to ponder this problem, this absurd allegation that pops up from time to time. It amounts to a suggestion that politicians deliberately set out to cut their own throats because there is no doubt that if we achieved that end, whether deliberately or accidentally, whether by design or by blunder, we would be assuredly cutting our own throats and sending our Party into the wilderness for many years. So I suggest to honourable senators that they forget for all time this absurd suggestion that any economic difficulties that the country may be in at this time are the result of some deep dark plot by the machiavellian socialists designed to bring the economy to its knees. 
It is really a very curious exercise to listen to argument after argument advanced from the other side of the Senate which add up to reasons why the Opposition should be voting against this measure and to find in the end that it is coming down on the side of voting for the measure. What Opposition members are doing is saying that they support the Government's action to save employment in Burnie, but they take this opportunity to blame on the Government the situation that this Bill is designed to solve. I think that this is something like the action of a man who is being rescued from the surf raining blows on the lifesaver and blaming him because he nearly drowned. I think that any real examination of what got this company into its present plight must lead any honest observer to conclude that the difficulties that the company got into were caused by its own miscalculations, by a combination of forces that had, as I said earlier, almost nothing to do with anything this Government has done or has failed to do. 
What happened was that in 1 974- this is confirmed in conversations I have had with the management of this company- an idea became current that there was a looming shortage of paper. There was, as a matter of fact, a brief shortage of newsprint but there was not at any time looming a real shortage of the sort of paper we are talking about. But in any event those in the industry cashed in on this panic, and the result was a great stepping up in the production of this type of paper. I think that in 1 974 the APPM company actually increased its production by 20 per cent or 30 per cent. During the calendar year 1 974 the total amount of fine paper supplied to the Australian market was 268 000 tonnes, which was 33 per cent higher than that supplied in 1973. Of course the shortage did not materialise because the prediction was badly based, and the result was that stocks in the hands of merchants and consumers built up to some 88 000 tonnes by the end of 1974. 
It is surely absurd to say that any government was responsible for this situation. The idea that it was caused by the 25 per cent tariff cut is put paid to by the careful consideration which the TAAthe Temporary Assistance Authority- gave to this claim. As a government we were confronted with a situation in which this highly vulnerable town of Burnie was about to be hit by the equivalent of a cyclone. Anybody who knows Burnie- and I have taken the trouble to go there and find out something about the place for myself- knows how heavily dependent it is on APPM. I was asked a question by  Senator Greenwood  as to the numbers involved in the threatened lay-offs by this company. I can tell him that the Government was informed that if the company throughout its enterprises- it has enterprises in other places; Shoalhaven in New South Wales and Ballarat in Victoria- were not given the relief of the type that we have given it, it proposed to lay off 2000 employees, HOO of whom would be in the town of Burnie. Now, 1 100 people in a town of 22 000 people- the figure only has to be mentioned for the implications to be readily available. That action obviously would affect directly, at a conservative estimate, I would say some 4000 or 5000 people. Suddenly that number of people would cease to be breadwinners. Of course the indirect results of those people not being breadwinners or not having a means of livelihood can be readily apprehended. 
In other words we were dealing with a totally exceptional situation. We were dealing with a situation in which a town would have been temporarily almost wiped out. I suggest that to say that this was a piece of pork barrelling is to show a very inhumane attitude to the plights of human beings. This action went against our grain. I can assure the Senate that I, as the Minister rresponsible, received quite an amount of criticism from the ranks of my own Party for recommending a proposition which amounted to putting $650,000 into the hands of a heavily capitalised and hitherto prosperous company. As I think  Senator 
Devitt said, we took the view that this was not just a matter of an entry in a ledger or a concern with whether we were departing from our traditional attitudes towards companies. It seemed to us that this was an emergency for which we had to take exceptional measures, and that is what we did in this case. I would say that what we have done, far from being something that can be criticised, is an example of the Government's concern for the prosperity of the private sector. We have been asked to give some illustration of that. It has been said that we are hypocritical in talking about the prosperity of the private sector, but the moment we take positive measures to show that we are serious in that assertion we are criticised for it. 
Of course  Senator Greenwood's  comment is riddled with just that sort of inconsistency. He says that this is an example of a discretionary use of power. He asked how, having taken this action in regard to APPM, can we reject claims by other companies. I would like to pursue the logic of that proposition. He says that he supports our giving assistance to APPM. Does he support the proposition that we should give it to every other company in difficulties? If so, it is hard to see how he can offer any criticism about our giving it to APPM. Is he saying that we should not have given it to APPM because we are creating a dangerous precedent and we will have a great queue of companies in difficulties lining up here? If his principles are as rigid as all that, let him manifest them in a realistic way by crossing the floor and voting against the Bill. But of course, as we all know, the Opposition speakers in this debate want to have the best of both worlds. They want to be economic purists, they want to be economic critics, but at the same time they do not want to do themselves any danger in the looming by-election in Bass. So all his transparent Simon Purity will not stand the light of day. 

 Senator Greenwood made one or two other points. For instance, the point I have just made, that all of this company's difficulties were due to the action of the Government, has been refuted not only by what I have said but also by what  Senator Grimes  said and above all by what a very honest and fair member on his own side said.  Senator Bessell,  who knows the area well, did not go in for any histrionics or any extravagant tirades against the Government. He has to live in the Tasmanian community and he knows that that community does not want to listen to these abstract sermons. He knows that the community knows the facts of this matter. Of course, if  Senator Greenwood  would take the trouble to go to Burnie, as I have done, and to mix among the people of Burnie and of the neighbouring towns of Devonport and Wynyard, he would discover that allegations of the Government being to blame for the difficulties of APPM just will not stand up. The local population knows better, and the management of the company knows better. 
I have had numerous discussions with the management of the company during the times that led up to the taking of the decision that we took. I talked to the Managing Director and to various leading executives of the company. None of them attributed their difficulties to actions or omissions by the Government. They were quite frank in admitting that they had made a business miscalculation. It is a little hard to have to bear the brunt of making an unpopular decision to help a company like this and then to be accused to having done the wrong thing by people who will not stand up to their alleged principles by voting against a Bill which they criticise so much. 
Just by way of a diversion, I was interested to hear the little tariff lecture that we had from  Senator Greenwood.  As far as I was concerned, it merely established the fact that this is another one of the areas of vast ignorance which we have come to expect from him. The troubles that we got into as a result of the 25 per cent tariff cut- I am the first to admit that we got into troubles over the 25 per cent tariff cut, although it is irrelevant to this particular question- were due not so much to the mistaken idea of a tariff cut but were due largely to the fact that we do not have complementary powers to make a tariff cut achieve the purpose that we set out to achieve.  Senator Greenwood  poured great ridicule on the motivation for the tariff cut that he found in a statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  That was that in a period of demand inflation it was a good economic move to introduce a little bit of competition for local industry by letting more imports into the country. Any intelligent economist will tell us that that was impeccable logic but it came undone for various other reasons - 
-Not the least of which,  Senator, was  that retailers who were supposed to ease the pressure of demand by giving the consumer the benefit of some of the cheap imports that came into the country chose to mark up those imports to extravagant levels, thereby negativing the ambition of the Government to provide this import competition. Of course, the reason we could not do anything about that was that we were denied the powers over prices that we sought in a referendum against which the Opposition campaigned so fiercely a year or so ago. 
What sort of managers are we,  Senator Greenwood  asked. I should like him to take his mind back to the revaluation discussions that went on in his own Party some year or so before the Labor Government came into office, when the Liberals allowed themselves to be stood over and intimidated by their Party's alleged junior partner. The revaluation, which any economist could have told them was necessary at that time, was postponed until we came to office and had the courage to revalue. It has been estimated that that absurd opportunist decision, or the refusal to take a decision, cost this country something of the order of $ 1,000m. Any errors that this Government may have made to which  Senator Greenwood  takes exception are piddling compared with what that total failure of couragethat fact of being the prisoners of a hillbilly sectional partner- wrought in this country. 
If  Senator Greenwood  chooses to look back into history he will realise, if he is honest with himself, that a lot of the difficulties that this country is in today stem from what we inherited from his Government. I refer in particular to the instance that I have just given and, of course, the absurd miscalculation of the 1971 Budget. Many of the difficulties that this country is in at the present time can be traced back to the frantic efforts of the McMahon Government in its dying days to court popularity by taking economic steps that were hopelessly unwise, opportunist, ill-advised and designed to enable that Government to hang on to office at any cost. The troubles of this country did not begin in December 1972; they started before we came to office. If, as I have readily admitted on many occasions that it has, this Government has made mistakes, all of the blame is not to be attributed to us. As  Senator Devitt  has proved, we are beginning to recover; we have learned lessons from our errors, as the previous Government did not do; we confess to our errors; and we believe that, having learnt those lessons, we have now turned the corner and are on the way to recovery. 
Another of the simplistic charges that were flung at us by  Senator Greenwood  was that we were using taxpayers' money. Would  Senator Greenwood  have preferred that, instead of giving this $650,000 to APPM in an effort to keep it going and to keep up the morale of the work force and keep the work force in being in this town of Burnie and other places while it weathered this storm, we should have let the market take its course, let these men be put out on the grass and spend taxpayers' money on sustaining them and their families? Is that what  Senator Greenwood  considers a legitimate use of taxpayers' money, and does he say that another way of using taxpayers' money is legitimate? These are the gross failures of logic that are to be found in everything that was put to us by  Senator Greenwood  and which, in my view, cut the ground from beneath his case. 
In conclusion, I should like to point out that the action which this Government has taken to rescue the company, APPM, the workers of APPM and the town of Burnie from its present difficulties do not stop with this Bill. The Government has agreed also to make an advance placement of an order for 3000 tonnes of paper to help reduce the stockpiles of this company. Also, the Department of Manaufacturing Industry is monitoring carefully the imports of fine paper into this country and if these imports exceed a certain limit the Department will arrange to have the matter of assistance to the company on the basis of structural adjustment schemes referred once more to the Temporary Assistance Authority. Although we do not contemplate again making a payment of this nature to the company, if it becomes necessary at a given moment to afford the company some tariff protection, as recommended by the body set up to advise on tariff protection, this Government will not hesitate to take such action. This Government's unorthodox and unprecedented action of making a section 96 grant to Tasmania to be devoted to keeping APPM in being and to keeping its employees at work, rather than have them face the demoralisation of unemployment, is defensible on many grounds. The Opposition, which seeks to avoid the displeasure of the people of Burnie and of Tasmania- a displeasure which would be particularly unwelcome at a time when an important by-election is loominghas, in my view, today given the Senate an exercise in hypocrisy. I think that the public, which will examine what the Government has done in this case, will have no difficulty in assessing which of the parties in this Parliament has more humanity and more concern for the people of Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
in reply- With varying degrees of eloquence, ranging from the banal to the ludicrous, the Opposition has pointed out that this is a Bill which has been debated so frequently in this place that there is almost nothing more to say about it. I do not propose to add anything to what has been said; to do so, I suggest, would be supererogatory. With respect, I would never differ from my good friend  Senator Georges,  but I should not like to see too harsh strictures passed upon  Senator Missen  who, I think, has played a very progressive role in this place in matters going to legal reform. But I must join issue with him on this Bill, especially when he suggests that it is some sort of an act of idiocy to keep bringing the Bill before the Senate. I point out to him - 
-Who used the word 'megalomania'? 
-Senator Missen did? Did you really, Senator? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! I call the Minister. 
-There are certain matters to which one turns a blind eye or a deaf ear. But I was suggesting that the word idiocy' as applied to this Bill is carrying things a bit too far because, at one time or another, such distinguished non-Labor figures as  Sir Garfield 
Barwick,  Mr Nigel  Bowen,  Mr Tom  Hughes and even  Mr Ellicott,  had nothing but praise for the idea of a Superior Court. 
I do not propose to regurgitate the arguments in favour of a Superior Court. I commend to honourable senators a re-reading of the speech which I made in reply to the arguments that were advanced on the last occasion this Bill was before the Senate. I feel that honourable senators, especially members of the legal profession who are really interested in this Bill and who have not been snowed by the Supreme Court judges' lobby, might still find persuasive arguments in favour of introducing a Superior Court. I suggest that the real reason the Supreme Court notion has gone out of fashion is that there has been a great gathering of the freemasonry of the Supreme Court incumbents. I have been pushed into a corner sometimes by Supreme Court judges. As I said the last time this Bill was before the Senate, it is quite illusory to imagine that elevation to the bench automatically wipes out interest in legal politics by incumbents of the bench. I have found myself being lobbied by Supreme Court judges who are not activated by lofty principles but by what can only be called the territorial imperative. They see the Superior Court Bill as an attack on their territory. They feel that what they have they should keep. This always mystifies me; I cannot imagine why a man, having been promoted to the oasis of a judicial appointment, should care very much whether he has a large oasis or a small oasis. But the human ego appears to be such that people will fight for things such as that. 
The real reason why a proposition which was once respectable and admirable- the idea of a Superior Court- has suddenly become reprehensible is that judges who once thought there was something in the idea now find that it constitutes some inroads on their territory. Let us not get too carried away by the proposition put by such distinguished constitutional lawyers as  Senator Sheil  that this Bill is in some way a retrograde step. The question has been asked: Why are we bringing this Bill back again and again? It is like the question: Why is a man faithful to his wife? Does it occur to honourable senators that the simple explanation may be that he loves her. 
-Like all  Senator Greenwood  's logic, that is a curious and vulnerable logic. Surely love will survive the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune. The fact  that our beloved Bill, the Superior Court Bill- I say this with my hand on my heart- has been rejected 3 times does not diminish its worth in our eyes. So we put our arguments to honourable senators opposite again, probably for the last time, in the hope that our logic and the intrinsic merits of the idea will have come home to them and will have converted them and that tonight, despite the errors of their past, when it comes to the crunch they will find it in their hearts to cross the floor and vote for the Superior Court Bill. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
-This is a copy of a minute from a First Assistant Secretary of the Treasury to the head of  Mr Connor's  Department. 
-This is very unpalatable to  Senator Carrick.  Is it any wonder that a government, in dealing with established Treasury procedures, should entertain some doubts about its relationship with that Treasury when the head of that Department secretly undertakes investigations of a man and does not want the government to know anything about it? 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have been informed by the Trade Practices Commission that the information sought by the honourable senator is as follows: 
7590. 
For the grounds provided in section 91 of the Trade Practices Act 1974. 
None- all interim authorisations have been granted following a preliminary consideration of documents submitted. 
121. 
It is not known when all such applications will be finalised. The Trade Practices Commission is working expeditiously on these applications on an industry basis and anticipates that applications in respect of the major types of practices will be finalised within a year. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, I seek leave to make a brief statement to correct a misstatement which I made in a debate earlier today. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator McAuliffe)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
In the debate this morning, I tabled a document attributed to a  Mr J.  T. Larkin, First Assistant Secretary. I mistakenly stated during the debate that he was a First Assistant Secretary of the Department of the Treasury. In fact, he is a First Assisant Secretary in the Department of Minerals and Energy. 
Yes, I will undertake to do that. If it is considered that there should be some amendment to the Bill we will be open to suggestion. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have been informed by the Trade Practices Commission that the information sought by the honourable senator is as follows: 
24 notices have been given, in relation to 1 6 separate matters. 
The  Chairman  of the Commission,  Mr R.  M. Bannerman. 
The  Chairman  of the Commission. 
Yes. 
None. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have been informed by the Trade Practices Commission that the information sought by the honourable senator is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a)5190;(b)5093;(c) 110. 
(a)2173;(b) 1754;(c)90. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have been informed by the Trade Practices Commission that the information sought by the honourable senator is as follows: 
10 884 individual applications up to 3 June 1975. 
(a) 18; (b) 42. 
None. The Commission has scheduled four applications for public hearing with the first hearing commencing on 27 June 1975. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Trade Practices Commission has informed me that the statistics sought are as set out in the following tables: 
-Following the question that I was asked yesterday- I think by  Senator Drake-Brockman-  I spoke to the Attorney-General about the apparent delay in establishing the tribunal that we are talking about. The Attorney-General told me that in his search for the 3 judges whom the Government has decided to appoint he had approached one distinguished judge- whose name I do not think I should mention at the moment- as a beginning. He was the first judge whom the AttorneyGeneral approached. He asked him whether he would be prepared to serve on such a tribunal. I can assure honourable senators that the judge is a man of such repute that I am sure he would be acceptable to all sides of politics. The judge in question said that he would prefer to wait until the matters that are at present before the High Court- that is the matter concerning  Senator Webster  and the other common informer's matter relating to  Dr Cairns-  had been disposed of by the High Court. As this judge put it, he thought that he would be embarrassed by adjudicating on such matters before the High Court had handed down its decision. I understand that in relation to the matter concerning  Senator Webster  it is expected that the High Court's judgment- the judgment of  Sir Garfield  Barwick- will be handed down in the very near  future. The other matter concerning  Dr Cairns  may take a little longer, but I think the attitude taken by the judge who has been approached is a very reasonable one. I think it would be the attitude that would be taken by any judge who was approached. 
I can remember that when the matter came up before the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament, of which I was a member, I expressed the opinion that from my knowledge of the attitudes of the judiciary it would be unlikely that any Australian judge would like to be pronouncing on these matters pending a decision of the High Court. I assure honourable senators that there is nothing sinister about the fact that there appears to be some delay and it is not likely that the contemplated tribunal will be constituted or will commence its deliberations until the High Court has pronounced on the matters before it. 
There are several arms to the alleged question asked by  Senator Townley.  The first one was an assertion, obviously based on the fact that there is a textile industry in Launceston where a by-election will be held in the next couple of months, that the 25 per cent tariff cut was responsible for all the ills of the textile industry. I deny that all the ills of the textile industry are due to the 25 per cent cut in tariffs and I assert that many of them are due to the inefficiency of large sections of the textile industry. 
I have had no hesitation, as the honourable senator knows, in stating openly my views about the textile industry and on all tariff problems, and I will not conceal those views. The next part of the honourable senator's question betrays a curious naivety about relations between sovereign states. He has asked whether we will insist that China accepts voluntary restraint. How does he propose that we impose such a condition? Is he suggesting that we should send a gunboat to throw a few broadsides off the Chinese coast to compel the sovereign state of China with its 800 million people to do exactly what the Australian Government wants it to do? 
If  Senator Townley  is interested in facts, the facts of what has happened recently in China concerning the attempt to obtain voluntary restraints on textile exports, which is the subject of an article that appears in today's 'Australian Financial Review', are these: There was a team of Australian officials in Peking talking with the Chinese about voluntary restraints. It is true that they did not reach agreement and there is no way that we can impose the sort of agreement that 

 Senator Townley seeks. The discussions were conducted in a friendly spirit and ended on a cordial note. No threats were made, no nuclear bombs were dropped. The talks arose out of recommendations in a textiles authority report. The negotiating team has not yet returned to Australia and consequently the Government has not received a full report of the talks. Any government action will be taken in the light of the full report by the delegation. 
I have seen the news item referred to by the honourable senator and, as one who has had occasion to criticise the Soviet Union for its restrictions on international freedom, I welcome the evidence of a loosening of such restrictions. I think that the suggestion that fell from the honourable senator is a worthy one and that perhaps we could take a leaf out of the Soviet's book in this regard. I will certainly convey his request to the AttorneyGeneral. 
I have found great difficulty in detecting any coherent theme in what has been put to us today, and indeed in the line of questioning that has muddied the waters of this place over the last few days. What is it that is alleged against the Government? Is it wrong for the Australian Government to seek to get its hands on some of the billions of petro-dollars that are floating around the world? I am greeted with silence. Is it wrong to deal in financial matters with Pakistanis? Is that alleged against the Government? Should we be dealing with reputable American banking firms, such as has been the practice in the past, instead of dealing with reputable Pakistani authorities? Is that alleged against us? Is it alleged that it is perhaps wrong to deal through people with whom one goes to the football? That raises the interesting question of the deals  Sir Robert  Menzies may have cooked up here and in England when he went to the cricket. 
I detected some charge in a phrase that was used by  Senator Guilfoyle  in a question that she asked this morning when she said, in horror, that we had been bypassing established Treasury procedures. Let me enlighten the Senate about established Treasury procedures. I have in my hand a document- I hasten to add that I will table it- which throws some light on these highly esteemed Treasury procedures. It is a minute addressed to  Sir Lenox  Hewitt, the head of  Mr Connor's  Department, by a First Assistant Secretary in the Department of the Treasury,  Mr J.  T. Larkin, and it reads: 
On 1 3 December 1 974 at about 7 p.m. there was a meeting at the Attorney-General's Department between officers of that Department and Treasury to prepare an Executive Council Minute for a proposed borrowing abroad of US$4,000m. Present were Messrs Byers - 
That is the Solicitor-General- 
Harders - 
That is the Secretary of the AttorneyGeneral 's Department- 
Menzies and Rose - 
Who are officers of the Attorney-General's Department- 
. and  Sir Frederick  Wheeler, Messrs Prowse, Bailey and Hay (Treasury). I was also present. 
In the course of the evening while the Executive Council Minute was being typed up,  Sir Frederick  Wheeler rebuked  Mr Hay  for  Mr Hay  's indiscretion earlier in the day in having a message passed orally by the Guard at the Prime Minister's Lodge to  Sir Frederick  Wheeler.  Sir Frederick  said the message, which reported that Scotland Yard has failed to uncover any criminal record of  Mr Khemlani,  was very delicate and it should not have been conveyed orally by  Mr Hay  to the Guard for transmission to  Sir Frederick  when he  (Sir Frederick)  was in the company of the Prime Minister,  Mr Connor  and others.  Sir Frederick  pointed out to  Mr Hay  that there could have been embarrassment if the meeting at the Lodge knew that the Treasury was secretly and without authority having Scotland Yard investigate  Mr Khemlani. 
Fortunately,  Sir Frederick  said, Ministers and officials at the Lodge did not overhear the message which the Guard conveyed to him regarding the Scotland Yard investigations. 
-The Ship Construction Bounty Bill has been framed after close co-operation with the industry. Various suggestions have been put which have been embodied in the legislation. The doubts that have been expressed in the telex from  Mr Butler  of the State Dockyard to which  Senator Cotton  adverted have also been conveyed to me. I took the trouble to discuss them with the Department of Manufacturing Industry. They were actually forwarded to me by  Mr Henderson,  who is the Executive Director of the Australian Shipbuilders Association. The Department discussed these points in detail with  Mr Henderson  and he said that he would be satisfied and the industry would be satisfied if the points were answered in a letter from the Department, and the Department has undertaken to do that. 
I do not think the points that are raised are matters of great substance. Rather they are administrative matters. For example doubt is expressed as to the specific action of the bounty. I assure the Senate that the Minister would not act capriciously in a way that is feared by  Mr Butler.  There is also a comment on the variation of the bounty price. As this refers to clause 13 subclause 2 I assure the Senate that the working of that sub-clause will be examined in the light of experience. It does not seem to raise any immediate problem. The intention is that the existing procedures covering variation of the bounty, taking account of cost escalation will continue to apply, but if it turns out by experience that some amendment is necessary I will give an undertaking that the matter will be considered as indeed will any other amendments needed in the light of experience. This goes also to the matter raised by  Senator Jessop.  If it turns out that the fear he has of what might happen in the event of unforeseeable circumstances is well founded we will be ready to consider any necessary amendments to the Bill. We do not claim that it is a perfect Bill. We see that it is naturally a Bill which will require to be tested by trial and error. We are not inflexible about the Bill. Our attitude is: Let us see how it works, and if it turns out to have flaws we will be open to suggestions for improvement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
The Government is grateful to the Opposition for its constructive attitude towards this Bill. It is gratifying to learn that a Party which does not believe that the Northern Territory should have any representation in the Senate at least believes it should have an efficient functioning Supreme Court. There is only one matter which has not been adverted to in the debate but which has been drawn to my attention by our alert and percipient wit- Whip - 
-Both are correct. I am referring to a matter which is in the Bill but which has not been noticed by other honourable senators. I am referring to clause 3 of the Bill which refers to the Bill extending not only to the Northern Territory but also to the Territory of Ashmore and Cartier Islands.  Senator Poyser  has directed a question to me as to the exact geographical location, the ecological idiosyncrasies and the ethnic peculiarities of these territories- Ashmore and Cartier Islands. I must confess, to adopt the language of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in another place, that  Senator Poyser  caught me with my pants down. But  Senator Poyser,  in a spirit of co-operation and anxiety to ensure that the program is not delayed in this place, has assured me that he will not hold this legislation, up until the questions that he raised are answered to his satisfaction. Therefore I propose that I be authorised to make inquiries into the matters that he has raised and that the Bill proceed pending satisfaction of his understandable curiosity about this matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
This is a matter of great importance and of special interest to lawyers. I can recall an occasion in the Australian Industrial Court- the Commonwealth Industrial Court as it was known before that word was ostracisedwhen a challenge was made to the propriety of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Dunphy sitting in a matter involving the Australian Workers Union, the objection being based on the fact that a firm of lawyers with whom  His  Honour had been associated before he was elevated to the bench had acted for the union. I was in court at the time and  His  Honour rejected with great indignation the idea that his mind would be affected in any way by the fact that he or his firm had had a previous professional association with one of the parties to the litigation. I think  Senator Greenwood  will agree that there is a remarkable capacity in lawyers, once they have been elevated to the bench, to dissociate themselves from the sympathies or prejudices which they appeared to have when they were in the jungle of legal practice. 
I would rather not. The fact is that it has never been considered that legislatures should write into the statutes of any country the type of prohibition which  Senator Greenwood  is suggesting. I do not think he went any further than to suggest that the problem should be adverted to. I did not understand him to be saying that an inflexible prohibition should be put into this statute or any statute on legal practitioners who had been elevated to the bench declining to sit in matters which might involve clients whom they had had when they were out in the jungle of legal practice. Nothing is included in any of the statutes over which the Liberal-Country Party Coalition had control in a long period of 23 years. It must have been apparent during that long dark period that this was an ever-present danger. In fact, the matter to which I have adverted involving  Mr Justice  Dunphy arose during the life of the previous coalition Government. 
-The possible evil to which  Senator Greenwood  adverted was one which must have existed before the Labor Party came to power. As I said in an earlier debate today, it is not quite convincing to blame this Government for bad weather, marital disagreements, the Hobart bridge tragedy and cyclone Tracy. 
It is arguable. The fact is, however, there was abundant opportunity for the Liberal-Country Party coalition in its 23 years in office, a rather long period, to cure this evil and to cure various other evils. However, these evils subsisted and landed on our plate and even though we have not been able to cure them I do not think it is quite fair that we should be blamed for them. I assure the honourable senator that I will ponder the proposition that he has put, as I ponder every proposition that he puts, and that in the higher councils of our Party I will make those who make the decisions conscious of the suggestion he has made for improving the statutory framework of our country. I will be happy to report to him at some future time as to whether I have been able to persuade the Government of the merits of his suggestion. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have been informed by the Trade Practices Commission that the information sought by the honourable senator is as follows: 
(a) There were four cases arising under the Trade Practices Act 1 965- 1 97 1 , and its predecessor Acts and the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971 decided by the High Court. These were: 
v. Trade Practices Tribunal ex parte Tasmanian Breweries Pty Ltd. 
An action in which the validity of the Trade Practices Tribunal was unsuccessfully challenged. 
Strickland v. Rocla Concrete Pipes Ltd and Others (the Concrete Pipes'case). 
An appeal against a decision of the Commonwealth Industrial Court dismissing a prosecution. Appeal dismissed; much of the Trade Practices Act 1965-1971 held to be invalid, but judgments indicated that trade practices legislation based on the corporations power could validly apply to wholly intrastate business transactions. 
Mikasa (N.S.W.) Pty Ltd v. Festival Industries Pty Ltd. 
On appeal from the Commonwealth Industrial Court in a private action relating to resale price maintenance, the Court held that s. 92 of the Constitution was not infringed by the relevant provisions of the Trade Practices Act 1965-1971; also that the resale price maintenance provisions in that Act were not invalid as a result of the decision in the 'Concrete Pipes'case. 
v. Trade Practices Tribunal and the Commissioner of Trade Practices ex parte St George County Council 
The High Court held that the Council was not a corporation to which section 5 1 (xx) of the Constitution or section 37 of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1 97 1 applied. 
Cases decided by the Australian Industrial Court were: 
Strickland v. Rocla Concrete Pipes Ltd. 
Prosecution dismissed. (Appealed to High Court). 
Festival Stores v. Mikasa (N.S.W.) Pty Ltd. 
A private action for injunction to restrain resale price maintenance. Injunction granted. Appealed to High Court. 
In addition the Commissioner obtained injunctions to restrain resale price maintenance in 10 cases the defendants being: 
Amoco Australia Pty Limited 
B AS F Australia Ltd ( cattle tickicide- ' Nexagan ' ) 
BP Australia Limited 
Caltex Oil (Australia) Pty Limited 
Cedel Products (Australasia) Proprietary Limited (health and beauty aids) 
Dalgety Australia Limited ('Bonaire' air conditioners) Holiday Magic Pty Limited (cosmetics and toiletries) Hoover (Australia) Pty Limited (electrical appliances) Laycock, Son &amp; Co. Proprietary Limited ('Laconia' blankets) 
Matsushita Electric Co. (Australia) Pty Ltd. ('National' television sets) 
Cases decided by the Trade Practices Tribunal were: 
Frozen Vegetables 
Decided that a price agreement was contrary to the public interest. 
Books 
Exemption from resale price maintenance provisions refused. 
Australian Fibreboard Container Manufacturers Association Agreement 
Industry agreement on price and related matters decided to be contrary to the public interest. 
Four other cases were brought before the Tribunal by the Commissioner and a lot of interlocutory and pre-trial work was done on them, but the cases were finally disposed of by the Tribunal without hearing on the merits because the parties did not defend their challenged conduct or agreements. 
Tasmanian Breweries 
Pharmaceutical Wholesalers 
Vitreous China Sanitaryware 
Cement 
A fifth case, the St George County Council case referred to above, also went through interlocutory and pre-trial stages, but did not proceed after the High Court decision referred to above. 
In 24 cases formal consultations under section 48 were called and the parties gave up their restrictive agreements or conduct. 
In many other cases, of which there is no record in numbers, parties gave up restrictive agreements or conduct after discussions with the Commissoner or his Office which did not reach the stage of formal consultations under section 48. 
There is no record of the number of cases where restrictions were lifted after letters or requests from the Commissioner but without discussions. There were numerous fixed price restrictions in agreements given up in 1973-1974 and between July 1974 and September 1974 following letters from the Commissioner to parties. The annual report speaking as at 30 June 1974 generalised in qualitative terms and said that the task of proceeding on a broad front against price agreements appeared to be half over. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
to (S) The information sought by this question has been provided in the answers to House of Representatives question No. 2429 (Hansard page 2891) and Senate question No. 366 (answered today). 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Department keeps the Minister advised of the number of workers by category of occupation who are registered with CES as being unemployed. There are established procedures within CES to ensure that details of the qualifications and experience of these people are brought to the notice of likely employers. Applicants with experience at the senior administrative, managerial or executive levels, come within the ambit  of  the assistance provided by the Professional Employment Office (PEO) structure. This includes both assistance to find alternative employment within the capacity of the clients existing skills and if this is not likely, assistance under the National Employment Training System to acquire new skills which are in demand. In addition my Department is currently discussing with the Australian Institute of Management in Victoria the development of a special programme under NEAT aimed specifically at helping retrenched executives. There is a PEO in each Capital City and, through the network of CES, the PEO has representation and direct contact with employers in every town of employment significance in Australia. The PEO is also the vacancy office for all professional/executive type vacancies on a geographical basis up to and including Australia-wide, if the applicant so requests. Where suitable vacancies are not held in the system employers are canvassed on behalf of individual applicants and if these efforts are unproductive the possibility of training under NEAT in skills likely to solve the clients employment difficulties is discussed. The basic function of PEO and CES is to offer to employers and workers the advantages of central point in the community at which job seekers and employers can have ready access to the largest and most centralized job-demand and laborsupply registers in the community. 
and (3) My Department is aware of a current research project, financed by the Australian Research Grants Committee, on the consequences of loss of employment at a high managerial or executive level. The research is directed towards examining the manner in which the persons involved cope with their problems and with identification of any means by which such problems may be reduced or resolved. Assistance by the PEO has been, and will continue to be, given readily to the researchers. 
The possibility of placing retrenched executives in suitable temporary employment is not overlooked by CES and PEO in efforts to assist them. Furthermore if retrenched executives are registered for employment in districts where the availability of temporary employment is being stimulated through the Regional Employment Development Scheme they would have additional opportunities, not only through being employed temporarily on the REDS project itself, but also through any additional supervisory, management or planning problems created by the regional organisations to whom REDS grants are made. 
There is no doubt that the events of recent months have put pressures on both the staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service and its facilities. In order to relieve these pressures and to provide employment assistance to CES clients, the Department has allocated an additional 85 1 positions to the CES since 1.10.74. Some of this assistance is of a temporary nature and is being further augmented by former CES officers usually engaged on other duties within the Department. Emergency offices are being opened to provide additional CES representation or when existing facilities cannot be expanded. These temporary offices are in addition to the CES program my predecessor recently approved which provided for the opening of a further 40 permanent CES offices over the next 3 years. Some of these offices have already been commissioned and there are at present 1 85 CES Employment Offices and 1 52 CES Agencies operating throughout Australia. These and other measures being taken by my Department should facilitate the provision of appropriate and co-ordinated employment assistance to CES clients. 
A number of factors influence the level of registered unemployed and vacancies. The major determinant is the demand for labor which is dependent on the level of economic activity. Unemployment and vacancy levels are also influenced by seasonal factors, and in addition there are always people changing jobs or entering the labor force for the first time, or who have been dismissed, who experienced some unemployment before finding suitable employment or re-employment. The labor market therefore is characterised by large numbers of people seeking jobs and employers seeking to fill jobs with the result that there will always be some unemployment despite the existence of vacancies. 
There will always be some jobs available and some unemployment irrespective of the level of labor demand because the process of finding work and filling vacancies takes some time. Moreover, the characteristics of the unemployed and the qualifications required by employers may not match one another. Minimum levels of qualifications are required in some trades and professions, and the people seeking work may not be sufficiently skilled to obtain the available positions. The characteristics of the job too may be such that it is very unattractive and therefore difficult to fill. Finally the available jobs may be located in areas other than where the unemployed live. It is common for example for shortages of labor to occur in State capital cities while other areas experience relatively high levels of unemployment. It is the purpose of specific manpower policies to overcome these problems by facilitating the matching of the unemployed and jobs through programs such as NEAT, relocation assistance and the decentralisation of jobs. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
l ) and (2) These parts of the question seek legal opinions on the effect of the Trade Practices Act and it would be inappropriate to answer them in answer to a question on notice. However, the relevant provision of the Trade Practices Act would be section 45 and I invite the honourable senator's attention to the fact that the section is not applicable if no contract, arrangement or understanding is involved. 
To the extent that the Trade Practices Act applies to such persons they may, in accordance with Part VII of the Act, apply to the Trade Practices Commission for authorisation of their practices. 
and (5) The Trade Practices Commission has provided me with the following information in answer to these parts of the question. To date 33 professional groupings, each of which includes at least one natural person, have received interim authorisations pending a detailed consideration of the practices for which authorisation has been sought. 
The names of the bodies that have been granted interim authorisations are: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board has provided the following information: 
Graduates appointed as Clerk Class 1 constitute the largest group of graduate recruits appointed to a single designation, and represent about a third of the total number appointed each year to all designations. Departments notified a total of 594 vacancies for graduate Clerks Class 1 from the beginning of the 1974/75 recruitment campaign in August 1974 up to the end of December 1974. Since the beginning of 1975 a further 145 vacancies have been notified, bringing the total of demands to 739 as at 30 April 1975 compared to 652 vacancies notified in respect of the 1973/74 campaign. 
Vacancies are normally notified and filled on a continous basis throughout the year. 
Although offers of appointment have been made in respect of all vacancies notified not all persons accepting offers have commenced employment. 
Figures as to the numbers of graduates appointed to other designations over the same periods are not yet available. 
(a) The numbers of graduates appointed to all Third Division designations in the Australian Public Service in the years 1972, 1973 and 1974 were: 
Figures as to the number of graduates newly employed in all Third Division designations for the respective months of 1 975 are not yet available. 
The number of graduate Clerks Class 1 newly employed in the first four months of 1 975 were: 
These figures include graduates taking up duty following offers of appointment made in late 1 974. 
Over 25 000 students graduate from Australian tertiary institutions each year. It is unlikely that any increase in the numbers of graduates recruited to the Australian Public Service in the first months of 1975 as compared to the same months in previous years would affect confidence and growth in the private sector. 
Public Service: Decentralisation away from Canberra (Question No.  561) 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes,on 14 April 1975. 
The Prime Minister, on 14 April 1975 announced criteria for location of Australian Government employment in Canberra, and stated, inter alia: "The Government has decided that a new Government unit should be located in Canberra when it needs to be in Canberra for the efficient despatch of its responsibilities and where its presence contributes to Canberra's role as the national capital. 
The Government will be transferring other new and existing employment units to new growth centres in order to ensure that progress in these centres is as rapid and efficient as possible. 
Among the criteria which will be considered arerelocation will be directed towards relieving pressure on major cities and at the same time promoting the growth of regional centres; decisions will be consistent with Australian Government priorities for the development of particular regions and growth centres; growth centres will have priority, to the extent of their capacity, in location of units of Government administration. New units will, as far as possible, be located in growth centres consistent with the efficient execution of their functions; although Canberra is a growth centre, it is less in need of growth stimulus than newer centres; new growth centres provide a viable alternative to Canberra for the location of units of 'national' or 'central office' character. 
Each growth centre will tend to specialise in certain functional areas. This specialisation would be balanced by appropriate growth in the private sector and could be supported by the development of related academic disciplines in educational institutions in the growth centres. Functional groupings in growth centres which are expected to emerge are- 
Albury-Wodonga: National education, environmental studies, transport, agencies with a national 'market serving' role (e.g. Health Insurance Commission). 
Bathurst-Orange: Earth resources study and development, cartography. 
Geelong: Biological sciences." 
While the Australian and Tasmanian Governments are co-operating closely on a range of urban development programs, there has not been any formal identification of growth centres in Tasmania in the sense that other centres such as Albury-Wodonga have been so identified. In consequence, no criteria for location there have been developed. 
On 10 June 1975 the Government announced that an Australian Maritime College would be established in Launceston. The Government had previously announced its intention to transfer the Antarctic Division of the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs from Melbourne to Hobart. 
This decision was made prior to the development of growth centre criteria, and the move is to take place in early 1 978. 
National Companies and Securities Legislation  (Question No. S6S) 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) On 25 June 1 973 my predecessor received a letter from the then Attorney-General of New South Wales stating that his Cabinet had indicated that it would give favourable consideration to any request for a reference of powers in the corporations field subject to arrangements being embodied in any Australian legislation for the preservation of the States' existing administrative roles. On the same day my predecessor indicated by telephone to the Attorney-General of New South Wales his desire to take up that oner subject to satisfactory arrangements being made in regard to the conditions attached to it. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (7) It became apparent that there would be no point in providing the States with such documents, having regard to (a) a firm indication by the Victorian AttorneyGeneral that Victoria would not refer additional powers to enable the Australian Parliament to pass laws relating to companies and (b) a conclusion reached by my predecessor that it would not be appropriate for the States to have responsibility in the administration of the proposed legislation. In the circumstances my predecessor introduced the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill and then invited the State 
Attorneys-General to meet with him to discuss matters of mutual concern relating to that Bill. As appears from my answer to Question No. 2429 (House of Representatives page 289 1 ), the response to that invitation was disappointing. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I ) and (2) The Public Service Board has advised me that the services which W. D. Scott and Company Pty Ltd has provided for the Board since 1 January 1973, and the costs, are as follows: 
July 1973- seminar on more effective management services- $800 
November 1973-A. D. P. seminar-$3460 
March 1974- seminar on data based design and administration for the Department of Overseas Trade and the Public Service Board- Board's share $645. 
Since January 1975 the Company has been involved in three efficiency reviews of departments for the Public Service Board costing $35,3 10, $37,050 and $37,270. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) see the table below 
Metropolitan Daily Papers 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
1 ) The Attorney-General has seen the reports. Ostensibly those agents were not placed in embassies to deal with matters not connected with Australia 's security. 
The need for ASIO officers to be located in Australian Embassies is under review and is currently being examined by the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. 
Security: Arabs in Australia (Question No. 169) 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
It is not the practice to give information relating to ASIO operations. However, these matters fall within the compass of the Inquiry by the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security under  Mr Justice  Hope. 
Alleged Intimidation of Building Companies (Question No, 228) 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
So far as I am aware, the former Attorney-General received no correspondence from either the Australian Building Construction Employees and Builders' Labourers Federation or the building contractors concerned. The correspondence to which he referred in his answer to  Senator Greenwood  was a copy of a telegram sent by the General Secretary of the Federation to the Master Builders' Association, a copy of which the Master Builders Association made available to my Department. 
(c) and (d), See the former Attorney-General's answer to the question asked by  Senator Greenwood  in the Senate on 26 September 1 974 ( Hansard, page 1433). 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Medibank advertsiements have stated that everybody in Australia will have free medical insurance under Medibank. The advertisements have qualified the reference free' by pointing out that medical insurance will be free of direct contributions in the same way as other welfare services and benefits are free. 
The advertisements* have pointed out that people will be just as free to choose their own doctor as they are now. 
The honourable senator may rest assured that advertisements in respect of Medibank will not bc misleading or raise. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
On 25 July 1973 the then Attorney-General issued a press statement that was published in the national press. All ex-service organisations were informed. On 13 December 1973 a statement was made on the matter in the Senate by the previous Attorney-General. 
The text of the direction is as follows: 
Following my press statement of 25 July 1973 the existing Legal Service Bureaux are to become the Australian Legal Aid Office with effect from the date of this directive. 
Role 
The role of the Australian Legal Aid Office will be to provide a service of legal advice and assistance, including assistance in litigation, in co-operation with community organisations, referral services, existing legal aid schemes and the private legal profession. In particular, its decentralised offices will provide administrative support bases for community advice centres and legal or welfare advice groups generally. 
Services to be provided by the Office 3. (a) The Office will provide legal advice, including continuing advice, correspondence and endeavours to achieve settlement of problems. 
The Office will conduct undefended divorce proceedings, ancillary proceedings and family law proceedings arising under federal legislation on behalf of persons who do not have adequate means to pay for the cost of representation. 
The Office will also conduct minor litigation in Courts of Petty Sessions and other tribunals and such other litigation as is approved by the Attorney-General or his delegate. The general intention is that the Office will, in appropriate circumstances, provide representation when adequate and ready assistance is not available from existing legal aid sources. Representation will be provided at the expense of the Australian Government if the client does not have adequate means to pay for the cost of representation. 
In other litigious matters, the client will be referred: to the appropriate legal aid body, e.g. Public Solicitor or Legal Aid Committee; or to private legal practitioners on a panel maintained by the Office under procedures ensuring a reasonable and equitable spread of work. 
A 'Duty Solicitor' will be provided from the staff of the Office to attend at the 'Special Federal Court', Sydney and at magistrates' courts in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory to provide advice and to appear on pleas of guilty and applications for adjournment or bail. 
The Office will make representations to Government departments or authorities on behalf of persons with complaints or grievances against them. 
The Office will prepare simple documents such as simple wills or powers of attorney. 
Care is to be taken to see that the services of the Office are not abused by persons seeking assistance in clearly unmeritorious cases or by vexatious litigants. Clearly the Office should not conduct prolonged litigation in matters that the Courts have traditionally regarded as appropriate to be settled rather than litigated having regard to the public interest or the interests of the parties themselves. Examples are some building disputes and disputes between neighbours. 
Eligible Persons 5. (a) Eligibility for the services set out in paragraph 3 above will be as follows: 
In matters arising under Federal laweveryone in need 
in other matters- pensioners servicemen, ex-servicemen and their dependants aborigines migrants assisted overseas students persons approved by the AttorneyGeneral or his delegate. 
In cases not falling within the preceding subparagraph, the Office will act as a referral service, referring persons as in paragraph 3 (d ) above or to an appropriate welfare organisation or government department. 
Means Test 
Subject to paragraph 3(b) and (c) above- 
there will be no means test for social service pensioners, aborigines or assisted students; 
there will be no means test for servicemen, exservicemen and their dependants in all matters arising out of or connected with war service, repatriation or rehabilitation; and 
there will be no fixed means test for other persons but each case will be considered on its merits, the intention being that there should be some financial need and that the service should not be provided to a person who is clearly able to afford the services of a private legal practitioner. 
Standard of Service 
The Office should satisfy the best standards of the legal profession in the provision of service to clients who should be made to feel that everyone in the Office is anxious and ready to help them with their problems. For example, any person calling at the Office for assistance must be seen as soon as possible, and preferably on the same day, even if this involves overtime on the part of officers. 
To implement the Australian Government's policy of providing additional legal services to servicemen, exservicemen and their dependants and its policy of providing those services to other persons for whom the Government has a special responsibility. 
By authority of the Attorney-General. 
No. 
Yes, under the name of the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
I take a point of order. I think it is very improper that this witness, who has been so courteous to the chamber, should be bullied. He should be at least allowed to finish his answers. 

 -Mr President, I raise a point of order. Before the questions raised or adumbrated by  Senator Wright  are put to  Sir Frederick  Wheeler, I invite you to rule that those questions are clearly within the ambit of the questions which  Sir Frederick  has indicated he is not prepared to answer and are covered by his claim of privilege, and that he should not bc asked to answer them. 
-You mean  Sir Lenox. Sir Frederick  has gone. 
-Bad luck. 
You are all heart. 

 Mr Larkin; Yes,  Mr President. 
I reply very briefly to the matter raised by  Senator Greenwood.  I have no knowledge of the allegations contained in the affidavits which he has tabled. If he will let me have a copy of them I will have the matter investigated immediately. If the allegations to which the honourable senator has adverted are true I acknowledge that this is a very serious matter, requiring prompt attention from the Government. I undertake to have the allegations raised in the affidavits investigated promptly and, if any action is called for, to take such action. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers.)  referred to a statement of mine about what- the people need to know. He has certainly given ample evidence here today that there is a great deal that he needs to know. For example, he said that nothing was unusual about what is happening here today. I challenge the Opposition to cite one instance in the history of this Parliament where an officer of the Public Service has been summoned to give evidence on any subject.  Senator Withers  remains silent. Is there nothing unusual about that, Senator? I would say that it is one of the most unusual events in the life of this Parliament. 

 Senator Withers also took it upon himself to challenge me, as the Minister representing the Attorney-General in this place, to state whether, on the matter of Crown privilege, we relied on the well known case of  Duncan  v.  Cammell, Laird  or whether we took as our authority a case which he found difficulty in pronouncing, that of  Conway  v.  Rimmer.  I assure him that there is an even more recent authority in the person of somebody who sits beside  Senator Withers  on the benches here today. I refer to none other than  Senator Greenwood  who has treated us to his customary display of righteous indignation. I would have thought that an honourable senator who set for this country the high standards which he elaborated today would have set himself a rather high standard in quoting from his own work. In dealing with this very matter of  Conway v. Rimmer,  which lays down new legal standards about Crown privilege,  Senator Greenwood  cited a paragraph from the book which he coauthored with a present member of the House of Representatives,  Mr Ellicott,  a former SolicitorGeneral. He cited paragraph 146 which comes immediately before a paragraph which gives an answer to the question asked by  Senator Withers.  I will quote paragraph 147 which  Senator Greenwood  did not see fit, for all of his moral righteousness, to cite to this House. I ask  Senator Withers  to listen closely in order that he will know the attitude of his colleagues on the matter of Crown privilege. 
-You do? Well, this is also mine. I adopt the view of  Senator Greenwood  and of  Mr Ellicott.  Throughout this debate of course there has been the curious example of members of the Opposition saying that on the matter of Crown privilege the Labor Party has always been right and the Liberal Party has always been wrong. Frankly, I prefer their view, and I will cite it to  Senator Withers'  discomfiture. These are the words of the selfrighteous  Senator Greenwood,  or perhaps he will say they are the words of  Mr Ellicott: 
On this matter . . . 
This is on the matter he has just been discussing in paragraph 146-   . . it is not easy to express a view which will satisfy the varying points of view on the question of the desirability of making Executive information available. However, against the background of a system which is based on party Government and the responsibility of Ministers to Parliament, we think the preferable course is to continue the practice of treating the Minister's certificate as conclusive. 
This is a learned document prepared by a man who held the office of Attorney-General of this country assisted by a man who was Solicitor-General, and their interpretation of the law as it stands in the light - 
-It is rubbish, is it, Senator? If the Senate were to bear with me I would read the whole document which throws a great deal of light on the matter which we are discussing. In it the self-righteous  Senator Greenwood  and the learned  Mr Ellicott  come down squarely in favour of the proposition that a certificate granted by the Minister is conclusivethe position which we are arguing today. In this matter we, the Government, are acting according to principles of parliamentary democracy which have always- until today- been preached by our opponents. If they want a little chapter and verse, seeing they have not bothered to bring it before the Parliament, I will give it to them.  Sir Garfield  Barwick- I suppose he would be accepted by the Opposition as a reasonable sort of an authority on these matters- in a letter to the then  Senator Spooner  on 2 May 1960, which is a little more recent than 1845, said: 
I would go even further than May . . . 
He had been referring to  May's Parliamentary Practice-   . . and say that should the Senate order the presentation of a particular file which in the view of the Government it would be contrary to the public interest to present the file should not bc presented. 
-'The file should not be presented'. We are well aware of the view of  Sir Robert  Menzies which has been referred to by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt),  and I think there is no necessity to cite it. One thing which is particularly interesting about the claim for privilege in relation to the VIP aircraft matter, about which  Senator Wright  was very eloquent- I will remind him of his words a little later- was that it was not some matter of the defence of the country, it was not some large matter of public interest about which one would have expected that there should be any concealment. We are accused today of being less than honest in not being ready to produce all documents relating to a major matter of state, a matter of extensive loans which the Opposition considers to have been totally unwarranted. The Liberals claimed privilege, in no uncertain words, on a matter of producing documents concerning the use of VIP aircraft. Was that a matter of more far reaching state importance than the matter which we are discussing today? Yet  Sir Robert  Menzies and all the Liberals claimed that that matter was a matter on which it would be quite unwise to bring the permanent head before the Senate. What sense of proportion is there involved in a change of attitude like that? 

 Senator Greenwood, I suggest not quite as honestly as one would have expected from a man who proposes to be a Simon Pure, referred to a previous case when the Senate Select Committee on National Service in the Defence Force, which was comprised solely of the Labor Party members, invited various officers of the armed Services to appear before the Senate. It wrote to the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies.  Senator Greenwood  attempted to find some comfort in the fact that  Sir Robert  Menzies did not say in a blanket way that they should not give evidence.  Sir Robert  said that he did not think it would be of much use if they were asked to comment on Government policy.  Senator Greenwood  attempted to distinguish that from the stand which the Government has taken in this matter today. However, with the selective type of quotation to which he is evidently addicted, he did not go on to tell us what the then Acting Prime Minister,  Sir Arthur  Fadden, said when this matter was followed up by the Committee-  Sir Robert  Menzies having gone abroad. Prime Ministers went abroad even in those days. So I will read to the chamber the full text of the reply of  Sir Arthur  Fadden which, I suggest with respect, puts a rather different light on the attitude of the Government of the day to that which  Senator Greenwood  attempted to convey to this chamber today.  Sir Arthur  Fadden wrote: 
Dear  Senator McKenna, 
I have your letter of 12 January. The Chiefs of Staff and the other officers mentioned therein have informed me that they have received invitations from the  Clerk  of the Committee to attend to give evidence at various times during the next few weeks. 
Cabinet has considered fully the proposal to call these officers and has decided that it would be against the public interest for the Service Chiefs or members of the Public Service to be required to participate in this inquiry. The ground of the Cabinet decision is clearly stated in the Prime Minister's letter of 23 December last. 
It is quite impossible to draw the line between what your Committee may call factual and what is policy and it should not be for any official or for the Committee, in the view of the Government, on matters which may touch security, to decide whether it is either one or the other. 
Since the officials concerned would be compelled to claim privilege immediately they have been directed that there is no purpose in their attending and that they should accordingly not do so. 
That, I would have thought, would be a fair enough principle for us to rely on in this debate. But we hear no mention of that just as we hear no defence of the great white father,  Sir Robert  Menzies, when his words are quoted to support our stand against the stand that has been taken by the Opposition in these proceedings. 
Seeing we have got into the field of quoting legal cases I should like to refer to a couple of recent comments made in cases in this country- a little closer to home than the House of Lords. Perhaps they will have some persuasive influence on the great Australians opposite. In the case of  Lanyon Pty Ltd v. Commonwealth of Australia  the late  Mr Justice  Menzies in the High Court of Australia upheld a claim of privilege in respect of documents falling within a certain class, namely:   . . documents brought into existence within Government departments and instrumentalities for consideration in formulating a submission to Cabinet and recommending a decision of Cabinet, its committees or sub-committees thereon. 
The basis on which His Honour upheld the claim was: 
 It is that the Government process directed to obtaining a Cabinet decision upon a matter of policy and Cabinet s decision upon that matter should not, in the public interest, be disclosed by the production of Cabinet papers, including what I would describe as papers which have been brought into existence within the governmental organisation for the purpose of preparing a submission to Cabinet. Such papers belong to a class of documents that in my opinion are of a nature that ought not to be examined by the court except, it may be, in very special circumstances. 
I would suggest that the above observations would apply equally well to deliberations of the Executive Council. 
In another case here in the Australian Capital Territory, the case of  Kent  v.  Cavanagh-  the Black Mountain case-  Mr Justice  Smithers in the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory upheld a claim of privilege to certain documents falling within a certain class, namely: 
. high level communication between a senior public official and his Minister relating to forming of policy by the Australian Government. 
So if we are to rely on the law I suggest that the law and opinions on the law by learned lawyers like  Senator Greenwood  and  Mr Ellicott  are all on one side. They are all on the side of the position that has been taken up in this matter by the Government. 
The notice of motion given yesterday by the Opposition was given belatedly after some confusion. It was given after the Opposition claimed it had been ambushed. That was a very curious claim. One would have thought that one of the possibilities that would have been envisaged by an alert and competent Opposition was that the Government would take the position that it has taken in the light of all the authorities which should be dear to the hearts of honourable senators opposite. The motion which has been moved deserves a little examination. In paragraph ( 1 ) it states: 
That the Senate affirms that it possesses the powers and privileges of the House of Commons as conferred by Section 49 of the Constitution- 
I point out to the honourable gentlemen opposite and especially to the lawyers in their ranks that it is a matter for the Parliament to declare its privileges under section 49 of the Constitution. If they take the trouble to read the section they will find that it is not for the Senate alone to declare the privileges of the Parliament. The Parliament has not done so in any relevant way. 
-The Parliament has not done so and so we rely on the rules of the House of Commons. 
But my comment, in case  Senator Missen  does not understand, is that it is not for the Senate to affirm its rights, privileges and immunities. It is for the whole of the Parliament to do so, and until it has done so there is no point in a pious resolution like this. Paragraph (2 ) of the motion reads: 
That subject to the determination of all just and proper claims of privilege which may be made by persons summoned, it is the obligation of all such persons to answer questions and produce documents. 
I should point out that that paragraph denies the existence of any right in the Executive Government to make a general claim of privilege in relation to any subject matter of inquiry. Read it closely and it becomes obvious that it bears no other meaning. Indeed, it denies the right of any Minister to make a claim of privilege and asserts that the claim may be made only by a witness. Now, a witness may be a relatively junior man in the service and yet have come into possession of secret information of great importance, say a defence secret, in respect of which a claim for privilege certainly would be allowed if it were made. But paragraph (2) would forbid a claim of privilege in that case. Nowhere has it ever been suggested, apart from this resolution, that a claim for privilege must be asserted only by the witness. The privilege is the privilege of the Executive Government, of the Crown, to have its affairs kept secret, and the duly appointed agents of the Crown, having a right to address the Senate, must be entitled to submit to the Senate a claim of privilege. Paragraph (3) reads: 
That the Tact that a person summoned is an officer of the Public Service, or that a question related to his departmental duties, or that a file is a departmental one does not, of itself, excuse or preclude an officer from answering the question or from producing the file or part of a file. 
My comment is that the Government asserts that the very fact of a witness being an officer of the Public Service is important in itself and must be recognised as important for the purpose of a claim of privilege. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and individual responsible Ministers have claimed privilege in this case based on principles of responsible government, principles which, as 1 have shown, have been adhered to, preached, written about and boasted about by representatives from the other side of politics for years and only belatedly disowned for opportunist purposes here today. I submit that if the Senate can go behind the Ministry and seek evidence of the Ministry's activities from the advisers to the Ministry then responsible government is undermined. I am supported in that proposition by a very learned quote from  Senator Wright  which I will produce a little later. As I said earlier, the Opposition can cite no example of a public servant having been summoned to appear before the Senate. 
I think it is significant also, as the Press has had a mention in these proceedings, to note that the newspapers which have lambasted the Government over the past couple of weeks about the loans matter generally- notably the  Australian Financial Review,  a newspaper for which I have a great deal of respect, and the  Age,  one of  Senator Greenwood's  favourite newspapers which I think he would have to admit has not been kind to the Government over this matterboth have editorialised in the last couple of days upholding eloquently the principle which the Government seeks to uphold here today. But perhaps I can go to no more eloquent exponent of the position the Government is putting than the honourable senator,  Senator Wright,  who has been curiously silent today, even forbearing from his usual penchant for interjection. I should like to remind him of a couple of passages that appear in the Hansard of 1 November 1967, when the VIP debate was being conducted in this place. There are a couple of matters there that are quaint, ungrammatical, but redolent of the familiar brand of indignation which we in this chamber have come to expect from the upright, honourable and learned senator. 
-At page 1959,  Senator. I  would have thought you would be familiar with it. I will not attempt to reproduce the sounds of righteous indignation which I am sure  Senator Wright  used at the time, but he said, inter alia: 
 I would hope that we would not proceed in the  hurly  burly of public debate where witnesses can be made ribald . . . 
An odd word, but these are his words- 
. and the truth can become obscured by passion. I would hope that we would go about it by appointing a select committee. 
Then in his peroration he said: 
 I despise the attitude that will parade the cause of integrity of Ministers with regard to truthfulness as a mere election expedient to obtain headlines through the Press. 
Perhaps a Freudenberg would have put it more eloquently, but perhaps it is worthy of the level of what has fallen from the lips of  Senator Wright's  colleagues in this debate today. 
-On the point of order, it would be hard to imagine a more specious argument than that which has just been advanced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  How can a resolution passed today by this Senate, subsequent to the issuing of these summonses, be connected with a full and accurate account of the activities of the Government's Ministers, servants and agents relating to all dealings by them prior to and subsequent to the Executive Council meeting of 13 December 1974? It is impossible to link the passing of the resolution today with the matters mentioned in the summons. I suggest that there could not be a more irrelevant question than that which has just been addressed to  Mr Harders. 
Sentor JAMES MCCLELLAND- If I may elaborate on my point of order, if that is so, if the point made by  Senator Missen  is true, the question is even more impermissible.  Mr Harders  has indicated that he will not answer questions which are relevant to the summons. So, either the question is irrelevant and therefore should not be asked or is relevant and  Mr Harders  has already indicated that he would not answer such a question. 

 -Mr President, I have made some inquiries and I have been informed by the Attorney-General that  Mr Whitelaw  was served with the summons as First Assistant Secretary (Overseas Economic Relations Division) of the Treasury.  Mr Whitelaw  is the Executive Director to the International Monetary Fund, Washington, and was granted leave from the Australian Public Service in pursuance of Section 72 (b) of the Public Service Act as from 14 April 1975. Under section 72 (b) of the of the Public Service Act, an officer granted leave under the section is an unattached officer of the Australian Public Service during the period for which he is granted leave. Under the same section, upon the termination of the leave, the unattached officer has a right to be appointed by the Public Service Board to an office in the Australian Public Service of appropriate status. The leave is granted by the Public Service Board.  Mr Whitelaw,  therefore, is part of the Australian Public Service in accordance with sections 10 and 72 (b) of the Public Service Act. 
The directions that have been given by the Treasurer to officers of his Department, including  Mr Whitelaw,  dated 15 and 16 July 1975, directed the officers to claim privilege in respect of all questions upon the matter contained in the Resolution of the Senate. This point was made by  Sir Frederick  Wheeler in his evidence and he indicated that he would observe the direction not to answer questions on that basis. A claim of privilege is made by or on behalf of the Minister, not the individual officer. The direction given on 16 July is in essence a direction to claim privilege in respect of all questions and the production of any documents. The correct person to make that claim in relation to  Mr Whitelaw  is the Minister within whose jurisdiction the relevant questions and documents fall.  Mr Whitelaw  was summonsed as an officer of the Treasury. He answered the summons as such. The material in relation to which he could possibly give the relevant evidence consists of matters under the jurisdiction of the Treasurer. The Treasurer therefore has rightly directed  Mr Whitelaw  to make the claim of privilege and to decline to answer questions or produce documents on that basis. 
The first is that the claim of privilege is being made by the Minister. Yes, that may or may not be true. But the nub of the matter, it seems to me, is: As  Mr Whitelaw  is no longer an officer employed within the jurisdiction of the Treasurer- and the statement does not appear to have adverted to this point, unless I have overlooked it- who can now give instructions to  Mr Whitelaw,  if he is on the unattached list? Can the Treasurer so instruct him? Is the only person who can now instruct  Mr Whitelaw  the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board, if  Mr Whitelaw  is not under any ministerial authority? As I understand it, if he is on the unattached list he is not subject to direction by any permanent head. I understand that permanent heads of departments have certain authorities over officers under their control or under their supervision- I do not know what is the correct term.  Mr Whitelaw  has now moved to somewhere out of  Sir Frederick  Wheeler's direct supervision, control or authority. 1 put these questions purely so that the Minister will see what is exercising my mind. Without going into the merits or demerits of the fact that the Treasurer is claiming privilege, what right has he to say that  Mr Whitelaw  is not to answer questions? 
The statement which I propose to make is similar to that which I made yesterday but is an elaboration and refinement of the points which I attempted to make then.  Mr Whitelaw,  who was and is an officer of the Australian Public Service, was granted leave under the provisions of section 72B of the Public Service Act with effect from 14 April 1975 to take up duty as Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund. He had occupied the position of First Assistant Secretary, Overseas Economic Relations Division, Department of the Treasury, for a period substantially exceeding 12 months immediately prior to the date on which he was granted leave to take up his appointment with the International Monetary Fund. An officer of the Australian Public Service who is granted leave by the Public Service Board under section 72 B of the Public Service Act is, by virtue of the section, an unattached officer of the Australian Public Service during the period of his leave.  Mr Whitelaw,  therefore, was and remains a member of the Australian Public Service by virtue of section 72B of the Public Service Act and section 10 of that Act which declares that the Public Service includes 'persons who are unattached officers'. 
The right of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  to give a direction to  Mr Whitelaw  in relation to a claim of privilege in respect of answers to all questions upon matters contained in the resolution of the Senate of 9 July 1 975 and in respect of the production of documents, files and papers relevant to those matters is clear. The privilege is that of the Crown, not of an individual officer or person. The claim of privilege is, therefore, to be made by or on behalf of the Crown. The Treasurer, as the Minister administering the Department of the Treasury, is the appropriate Minister to claim privilege or to direct that privilege be claimed on behalf of the Crown in respect of information and documents relevant to the matters contained in the resolution of the Senate that came to the knowledge of or into the possession of  Mr Whitelaw  in his official capacity as a First Assistant Secretary of the Department of the Treasury. With respect to information and documents relevant to the matters contained in the resolution of the Senate which came to the knowledge or into the possession of  Mr Whitelaw  in an official capacity, the direction to  Mr Whitelaw  and the certificate included in the letter addressed by the Treasurer to the  President  of the Senate specifically in relation to  Mr Whitelaw,  dated 16 July 1975, constitute an effective claim of privilege on behalf of the Crown. 
-Obviously this matter could not be one within the knowledge of the witness. How could he be expected to answer this question? 
-Under rule 1 1 they are deemed to be tabled. 
On 29 May, 
-Before the answer is given, I think that some regard must be had to the obvious difficulty that this witness would have with terms such as 'accreditation'. I suggest that  Senator Steele  Hall explain perhaps to  Mr Karidis  's counsel precisely what he means by that term. It is not fair that the witness should give some answer without knowing the exact meaning of the question. 

 Mr Karidis, Nothing,  Mr President. 
Further on the point of order raised by  Senator Devitt,  what  Senator Hall  has just put to you,  Mr President,  underlines the absurdity and the unfairness of this type of procedure. If counsel in a court of law were to cross-examine a witness and having been met with a denial were then to turn to the judge and say 'There you are Your Honour, we know that is untrue' he would be sat down very abruptly. I suggest that when  Senator Hall  gets an answer that does not suit him he should not dien be allowed to suggest to the Senate at large that the witness is obviously lying. This is a breach of this man's legal rights and privileges and  Senator Hall  should not be allowed to pursue this matter further merely because he has not got the answers that he wanted. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, how do you expect me to know what  Dr Cairns  was doing in Pans? 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I ask for your permission to refer to my counsel. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, the documents I presented here before are mine. What are the Government documents, I do not know. 

 Mr Karidis, Mr President, I do not know all of these things. How do you expect me to know all this? 
Khemlani,  Mr President,  have any documents in his possession which make him an agent of the Commonwealth? I base that question, if I could - 

 -Mr President, I rise to take a point of order. Insofar as this question presumes to ask  Mr Karidis  to give a legal opinion as to the status of any documents in the possession of  Mr Khemlani,  I submit that it should be disallowed. 

 - Mr President, the very fact that this question had to be submitted to the permanent head of the Attorney-General's Department for an opinion surely disqualifies  Mr Karidis  from being capable of answering it. 

 Mr Karidis, I do not know.  Mr President,  I do not know. 
Pursuant to section 171 of the Trade Practices Act 1974-75, I present the first annual report of the Trade Practices Commission for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
If the honourable senator seeks to make the point that our economy is still in a state of serious recession he will certainly get no dissent from me. The fact that the Prime Minister expressed the belief that unemployment was falling when it was in fact falling for a couple of months was an expression of hope that the recession may have bottomed. It turns out that that was not the case. We do not do any service to our parties, to this Parliament or to our country by refusing to look these facts in the face. As to the suggestion that this number of unemployed is entirely the responsibility of this Government, I do not think that even  Senator Webster,  with his usual extravagant estimate of the responsibility for all things evil falling on the head of the Australian Labor Party, would seriously believe that. 
We are in the middle of a serious world recession. Although I do not shun for one moment the responsibility which falls on this Government for some of the mistakes that it has made, I suggest that if honourable senators looked at the matter seriously they would realise that, as they have obviously been told lately, if they were running the economy they could not expect any improvement in the near future. I ask  Senator Webster  to examine the figures closely. If he does he will see some palliating features. For instance, more than all of the increase in unemployment in Victoria was due to a building strike which was on at that time. Some 4800 building workers who were on strike and who went onto relief accounted for the increase in the unemployment figures in Victoria. If  Senator Webster  and other honourable senators will be patient at least until 8 o'clock tonight they will discover what we propose to do to cure the ills of our economy. 
On 29 May  1975,  Senator Greenwood  asked the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral the following question, without notice: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Are reports correct that officers of the Trade Practices Commission, aided by the Commonwealth Police, raided a businessman's home and business premises and seized documents last weekend? Is not such action contrary to the Trade Practices Act which gives no power to seize documents and gives no authority whatsoever to the police? If so, are not raids of this character and the seizure of documents typical of the notorious dictatorships of this world? Is the Government now accepting that in this country a person's property and privacy may be invaded to discover evidence with which to convict him? In view of the fact that citizens appear to have no redress to the courts against invasions of this character, will the Minister table in the Senate the documents under which this invasion of privacy took place? 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
On 25 May 1975 officers of the Australia Police Force, accompanied by officers of the Trade Practices Commission, entered certain premises and seized documents believed to constitute evidence of offences against the Trade Practices Act 1974. The officers took this action pursuant to search' warrants issued by a magistrate under section 10 of the Crimes Act 1914-1973 and the Chief Commissioner of the Australia Police is satisfied that they acted properly in all respects. Prosecution proceedings based in part on evidence obtained by the officers may shortly be instituted. Until prosecutions have been instituted it would be undesirable to table the warrants and thereby identify the persons whose premises were searched. 
On 10 April 1975,  Senator McLaren  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, the following question without notice: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Science. It refers to imported fruit juice concentrates which are contained in products labelled 'pure fruit juice processed daily from crushed fruit' or in similar terms, implying that the contents consist solely of concentrated pure juice of fresh fruit. Will the Minister arrange for the Australian Government Analyst to run such tests as may be necessary to determine whether such products are true to label? 
The Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The laboratories of the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs regularly analyse samples of imported fruit juice concentrate for the Department of Police and Customs. During the past twelve months only one sample was unsatisfactory. It appeared to have been artificially coloured and contained more citric acid than normal. 
I am advised that there are no mandatory standards for imported fruit juice concentrates. It would not be possible to determine by analysis whether fruit had been pressed daily; the presence of preservatives could be detected as could adulteration by the addition of substantial quantities of water. 
I am not as aware as the honourable senator is of the latest lucubrations of  Mr Hawke. 
Lucubrations. Look it up. I am aware, however, that in a confrontation on television last night between  Mr Hawke  and the putative alternative leader of this country,  Mr Fraser,  and his putative Treasurer,  Mr Lynch, Mr Hawke  made an unholy mess of those would-be leaders of our country and left them with their mouths hanging open and obviously showing to the country that they had no alternative propositions to offer to those that were offered in the Budget last night.  Mr Hawke  is welcome to his opinion that there may be half a million unemployed. Perhaps that is possible. There is a great uncertainty still hanging over our economy. We are attempting to do something about it. I suggest that anybody who saw  Mr Hawke, Mr Fraser  and  Mr Lynch  on television last night could be left with only one conclusion, and that is that we are attempting to solve the problem and the Opposition is totally bereft of ideas. 
In earlier and happier times when I was the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, before I took up my present cross, I had something to do with both of these companies. Of course, what the Government did to provide rather exceptional types of assistance to both of these companies was strongly criticised at the time by the Opposition. In fact, it was suggested that the handouts- as they were called- which the Government gave to both of these companies to keep them in being and to avert retrenchments somehow or other constituted some sort of a dereliction of duty and some sort of fiscal irresponsibility. I take it that  Senator Townley  was never associated with those strictures on the Government and that as a loyal Tasmanian he approved of what was called porkbarrelling' on the part of the Government. Both Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd and Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australia Ltd are once more in difficulties because of general economic conditions. I notice that  Senator Wright  has something to say on this subject too. 
-Perhaps a little later he will favour us with his views on the matter also. In any event, the Government is examining the situation of these companies once again but no immediate tariff measures are in mind. Of course, we would not contemplate repeating the measures that were taken last year, largely because we know that we would have to face such an angry Opposition. However, we are examining the matter closely and if the honourable senator will be patient, I will let him have a detailed answer to his question. 
If the honourable senator has been following Press reports with the closeness with which I know he usually follows the major events of the day, he will have observed that the Government has been more active in defence of wage indexation than I think could be said of any previous government in relation to wages policy. We have intervened in the national wage case before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. We have intervened in cases before the Public Service Arbitrator. I personally have entered the lion's den in various trades hall councils. I have gone to summit meetings of many of the more militant unions. 1 have put my head on the chopping block in an attempt to persuade unions that it is in their own interests to temper their wage demands over the period immediately ahead. I can assure the honourable senator that the overall strategy of this Government involves a continuing effort to prop up the decision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in support of wage indexation. 
I would suggest that while the taxation measures which were announced in the Budget last night do not go to the extent of tax indexation which was desired by the unions, they do at least give relief to those on lower and middle incomes of a nature which is most likely to make wage indexation more acceptable. We are fully conscious of the difficulties of the private sector. We are attempting to do something about them. Part of our strategy is to do everything that we can to keep wage increases over the period ahead within reasonable limits. I have also had the benefit over the last week or so of studying a vague, ambiguous and confused document known as the Liberal Party's new industrial policy, but 1 looked in vain through all of the pages of that document for any guidance as to what our opponents would do to solve this problem which we have grasped. 
-Senator Greenwood should be a little more careful in attempting to score political points. If he were he would not have asked that question. I am sure that if he went to a lot of the people who support his Party he would find that what was mentioned by the Treasurer last night has been advocated by employer organisations for many years. In fact that is one of the most serious criticisms that  Mr Hayden  and I have to face within our own ranks, but I bite on that bullet and I will attempt to answer the honourable senator's question. There is a strong view that indirect taxation of the kind that was introduced last night or government charges are forms of redistribution of income. They are in fact imposed in order to finance government services. It is argued by certain economists that that having been done it should not then be counted again as a benefit in the consumer price index when workers are seeking increases in wages. I notice that  Senator Withers  laughs, but this view has very respectable backing in circles for which he would normally, I would think, have some regard. 
I agree,  Senator Carrick,  that this is a proposition which will strike considerable opposition in the ranks of the Labor Party and among unions. I am surprised at the attitude of the Opposition. We have entered an era when we as a government may have to consider matters which are unpopular even in our own ranks. If we are to be heckled from the other side of the House for what would normally be considered a responsible approach to government we will just have to bear with that too. I suggest to  Senator Greenwood  that he go back to some of the employer organisations that have been putting submissions to the national wage case and he will find that there is surprisingly respectable backing for the proposition that was put by  Mr Hayden  last night. 
I am not aware of the news item to which the honourable senator referred, but I will inquire as to whether the incident that he alleges took place did in fact take place. I must say in passing that I am rather curious about this question because it seems to carry an implication that at least  Senator Missen,  and perhaps some others on his side of Parliament, approve of the Regional Employment Development scheme and want it to continue. If this is his attitude, I suggest that he take the matter up with the Liberal Premier of Victoria who has challenged in the High Court the continuance of the RED scheme. 
I had some prior warning of this question, but I think it will be agreed that it is of such a detailed nature, especially the last section of it, that it would not have been reasonable to expect me to have obtained all the information required in the time available to me. It is a most important question, however. I shall refer it to the Attorney-General and let the honourable senator have an early reply. 
-The Labor Party has always believed in stressing the conciliation side of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's functions and for that reason it has traditionally fostered the notion of agreements being reached between the parties to disputes. However, we are now in exceptional times requiring exceptional remedies. For example, it is notorious that some sections of industry can afford to, or consider that they should, buy off any sort of disruption of their industry at almost any price. 
At the present time, as the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission indicated when it laid down its guidelines on 30 April when granting a tentative and temporary indexation of wages, any real disruption of those guidelines would be fatal to the system of indexation which was introduced. For example, if a powerful union and a powerful industry were to reach an agreement which stepped wildly outside those guidelines this could have flow on effects which would immediately torpedo any system of indexation. For that reason the Government is proposing not that the Government should have a right of veto of such agreements but merely that it should have a right to put its case to the Commission so that the Commission would be in possession of the Government's view as to whether such an agreement should be approved or should be not approved. 

 Senator JAMES McCLELLANDAccording to what I am suggesting- this is not as yet the adopted policy of the Government, but I hope that it will be- the Commission would in an appropriate case have a right of veto of an agreement which stepped outside the guidelines which it has laid down for the future of indexation. We believe that if indexation is to have any future, if there is to be any possibility of a wages policy which will give some prospect of pegging back inflation, such a power is needed in the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a record of a 'Seminar on Environmental Law: The Australian Government's Role'. 
-As a regular reader of that fine and unbiased newspaper the  West Australian  I have noticed the item to which the honourable senator refers. Of course, knowing the reputation for honesty of that newspaper and also the reputation for honesty of  Sir Charles  Court, I have no reason to doubt those figures. If they are correct, they offer a curious example of the double standard of the Liberal Party which enables it to regard practices which are reprehensible for a Labor government as virtuous for a Liberal government. The figures quoted by  Sir Charles  Court are rather extraordinary and indicate a growth rate in 1974-75 in the Liberal Government State of Victoria of 10.57 per cent, in Queensland of 7.94 per cent, in South Australia of only 5.2 1 per cent, in Tasmania only 4 per cent and in New South Wales of almost 4 per cent. My curiosity has been aroused by these figures. I will make some inquiries to satisfy the desire for information evinced by  Senator Walsh. 
I will do my best to answer what is a long and, I submit, rather confused question. On the first point as to whether the unions were taken into the Government's confidence, the answer is yes. Representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions attended a meeting in this building, as did of course representatives of various other interested groups, in the run up to the Budget and this matter was canvassed with the unions. 
-What original wage discussions? 
I am unsure of that. In fact, I think the answer is probably no. It is not a matter that has been canvassed until recently. I submit that there is a very respectable argument in support of this proposition, because I think that real income should include not only wages but also services provided by the public sector. 
Well, do we cut the services? What about Medibank? Medibank represents - 
Would the honourable senator give me a chance? I know he has been waiting a couple of days to ask his question. 
I understand that the amendments that have been sent to us from the other place are not to be disputed by the Opposition. Senate amendments Nos 14 and 16 restricted to the Attorney-General the power to give a certificate entitling information or documents to be withheld from parties to proceedings before the Tribunal. When those amendments were made in the Senate action was not taken to make consequential amendments to other provisions of the Bill referring to Ministers generally and the amendments made in the House of Representatives make those consequential changes. Senate amendments Nos 20-23 and 25-28 deleted references to the Superior Court of Australia and inserted instead references to the Supreme Court of a State or Territory. The effect of this change was to provide that appeals on questions of law from the Administrative Appeals Tribunal were to go to State and Territory Supreme Courts. The amendments made in the House of Representatives have the effect that appeals from the Tribunal on questions of law would go to the Australian Industrial Court instead of to the State and Territory Supreme Courts as was proposed by the Senate. The Government believes that appeals from an administrative appeals tribunal reviewing decisions of Ministers and officials under laws of the Australian Parliament and Territories should be heard by a Federal court. It does so for 2 reasons. One is that these appeals will involve interpretation of provisions of Acts of Parliament and Territory laws in matters that would not normally come before State and Territory courts. The second is that the Australian Government believes that there should be uniformity in the treatment of appeals in order to enable the development of an authoritative body of administrative law so that administrators would not be faced with conflicting or inconsistent decisions of State and Territory Supreme Courts. 
The purpose of amendments Nos 5 and 7 to 1 3 is to make additions to the Schedule inserted in the Bill by government amendment in the Senate in order to increase the area of the Tribunal's jurisdiction. Amendment No. 6 makes a necessary correction to the reference made in the Senate  amendment to the relevant office and to exclude an appeal in a matter in which an appeal was not intended; that is, an amendment to the air navigation regulations had been overlooked at the time. The Schedule inserted in the Senate set out those statutory powers in respect of which it was possible in the time available to provide a right of appeal to the Tribunal. In the praliamentary recess a number of other Acts were considered with a view to enabling the tribunal to review a greater range of statutory powers- of course, these will be added to from time time- having regard largely to the recommendations of the Bland Committee and legislation enacted since the Committee reported. The amendments made in the House of Representatives to the Schedule extend the Tribunal's jurisdiction into matters arising under those Acts. Accordingly, I move: 
That the Committee agrees to the amendments made by the House of  Represenatives  consequent upon Senate amendments Nos 14 and 16. That the Committee agrees to the amendments made by the House of Representatives to Senate amendments Nos 20 to 23, 25 to 28 and 32. 
-Many things can happen between a statement of opinion to me by the Attorney-General and the appearance of a Bill in this chamber. However, I am as curious about the matter as the honourable senator is. I will draw it to the attention of the Attorney-General again and I will let the honourable senator have a reply. 
I undertake to see that  Senator Greenwood  gets a reply before the debate is resumed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
You will be aware that the activities of the Australian Intelligence Services are currently being examined by a Royal Commission. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
I am informed that cases concerning anti-Vietnam war protestors and draft resisters which were referred to the Sydney office of my Department for the conduct of proceedings under the National Service Act are no longer kept in that office. The files relating to these cases have been treated in accordance with archival instructions relating to official records and it is expected that they will be destroyed in accordance with those instructions in due course. 
I have seen reports of this alleged difference of opinion to which the honourable senator refers, but I know nothing at first hand about any such difference of opinion, nor do I know when the report of the Jackson Committee to Advise on Policies for Manufacturing Industry will be ready and available to be tabled. I will make inquiries about the matter and let the honourable senator know. 
-The question of Vietnamese students, and indeed the question of applications by Vietnamese generally, for residence in Australia is under consideration by the Government. I ask  Senator Carrick  to give me an opportunity to give him a considered reply on this matter. I will undertake to do so within the next few days. 
I was discussing this matter with the Attorney-General yesterday. He had only recently received a reply from all the State Attorneys-General to whom he had written concerning their intention about whether the States should set up family courts or whether that should be left to the Australian Government. I do not think he has made a final decision on the matters to which  Senator Durack  adverted- that is, the matters of maintenance and custody. I will discuss the matter with the Attorney-General at greater length and let the honourable senator have a detailed reply. 
I believe that applications have been made by 10 fishermen from Stanley to attend a course in trawl fishing conducted under the auspices of the Tasmanian Fisheries Department. In considering these applications, it was necessary to ascertain whether the individuals concerned were in a situation of redundancy in their current employment or whether they were facing redundancy. I have asked my Department to continue its examination of these cases and to report to me on whether there is justification for the acceptance of the trawl fishing course as a special program of training under the NEAT scheme which could, subject to the application of the normal criteria, mean that the fishermen in Stanley about whom the honourable senator is concerned would be eligible for assistance. I will continue my inquiries and let the honourable senator have an answer as soon as possible. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, the purpose of this Bill is to establish an Office of Australian Ombudsman for the purpose of investigating and reporting on complaints. The Bill will require the Ombudsman to investigate complaints received by him against administrative actions of departments and authorities established by this Parliament or under Territory legislation. There will be 2  Deputy  Ombudsmen who will have a special role in relation to the Territories, one in the Australian Capital Territory and the other in the Northern Territory. The creation and appointment of an Australian Ombudsman is an important element of the policy of this Government. The policy speech in November 1972 and again in 1 974 included reference to this intention. 
The existing methods of checking deficiencies in administration are many and varied. These methods include supervision by tribunals, review by the courts, a Minister's responsibility to Parliament, examination of officials by select committees and, of course, the efforts of members of both Houses of the Parliament. These checks on administration may be effective in their own spheres but they are subject to important defects. Only some administrative decisions are subject to review by tribunals. In many cases members of the public are disadvantaged by the fact that procedures are unfamiliar. Often legal representation is required for the aggrieved person to present his case in an effective way. An appeal on the merits may not be available and review by the ordinary courts involves technicality, expense and delay. 
The duties of a Minister of the Crown are such that he cannot effectively exercise responsibility for all the many activities of departments under his administration. For these reasons the existing remedies need to be supplemented by an institution for investigating complaints which is independent and thorough, which can go behind the screen hiding the department or authority from the citizen. The Ombudsman will be able to go behind that screen and report on what he finds. The Ombudsman will not be confined to making a report. He will be able to exercise a personal influence with departments and authorities. In the grievance field he can act as a conciliator, and he can make suggestions to departments iri an informal way. Over a period he can become an influence for systematic administrative reform.  His  work will provide a record of situations where grievances are felt which are not taken care of by existing remedies. In one sense the Ombudsman will be providing a free legal aid service. A person who complains to the Ombudsman will not find himself in the adversary situation which is encountered in litigation. 
The establishment of the Australian Ombudsman will further involve Parliament in its historic role as a committee of grievances. One of the duties of the Ombudsman will be to report regularly to Parliament on the carrying out of his functions and on all significant matters arising out of his inquiries. 
The concept of Ombudsman is of Scandinavian origin and first appeared in an Englishspeaking country with a Westminster-style Parliament in New Zealand in 1962 and in Great Britain in 1967. All the Australian States, except Tasmania, have passed Acts establishing an Ombudsman. There are Ombudsmen in several of the Canadian provinces. The services of the 
Ombudsman have been in demand in those countries where the institution has been established and the Ombudsman's work has obviously satisfied a felt need. Experience has shown that in most cases complaints against authorities turn out on investigation to have been unjustified but the complainants are happy with the result of the investigation. In most cases the officers concerned are shown to have done their work conscientiously, and so the Ombudsman improves their standing with members of the public. The fact that a citizen can complain with the knowledge that his complaint will be dealt with by an independent and respected official is itself an incentive for good administration. 
In Australia a Committee on Administrative Discretions, chaired by  Sir Henry  Bland, recommended to the Government the appointment of an Australian Ombudsman. The Committee's interim report was tabled in the Parliament in May 1973 and its final report in October 1973. To a large extent this Bill follows the recommendations of the Bland Committee. Other recommendations made by that Committee have been implemented in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill already considered by this House. Other work had earlier been undertaken by another distinguished Committee headed by  Sir John  Kerr. Its report was tabled in the Parliament in October 1971. 
Separate provision for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory- which do not have Ombudsmen of their own as do the States- has been made in the Bill. In each case a Deputy Ombudsman will be appointed and will have all the powers of the Australian Ombudsman except that of reporting to the Parliament. This provision will ensure that there is an accessible and responsible official available to carry the work load in the Territories but the overall responsibility of the Australian Ombudsman will be preserved in order to avoid duplication or conflict. I emphasise that the Ombudsman is to be accessible throughout Australia. Facilities will be provided in each State for complaints to be lodged with the Ombudsman, who will be personally involved in the investigation of complaints of citizens from all parts of Australia. 
I turn now to a general description of the Ombudsman Bill. The Bill establishes an Aus.tralian Ombudsman and 2 Deputy Australian Ombudsmen whose functions are to investigate complaints made under the Act and also to investigate of their own motion actions by departments or prescribed authorities that relate to a matter of administration. Prescribed authorities are, generally, authorities or bodies established for a public purpose by a law of Australia other than those declared by the regulations to be authorities or bodies to which the Act does not apply. The Bill extends also to bodies constituted on a non-statutory basis and to companies in which Australia holds a controlling interest. Individual persons performing the duties of statutory offices are also brought within the compass of the Bill. Courts and similar bodies are excluded. The Ombudsman is not authorised to investigate action taken by a Minister or action taken by a department or authority in matters connected with employment in the Australian Public Service or employment in a prescribed authority. The Government has introduced into the other House a Bill to establish a Defence Force Ombudsman and the Australian Ombudsman is not authorised to investigate matters within the jurisdiction of the Defence Force Ombudsman. The Ombudsman will have a discretion not to investigate certain complaints. For example the Ombudsman may decline to investigate a matter if the complaint is in the opinion of the Ombudsman frivolous or vexatious, or if the complainant does not have a sufficient interest in the subject matter of the complaint, or if the complainant has the right to a review by a court or tribunal. 
The Bill provides that a complaint will be made to the Ombudsman in writing. A further provision ensures that persons in custody wishing to complain to the Ombudsman are to be given facilities to do so, and that their complaints are delivered to the Ombudsman unopened. The Ombudsman or his staff will personally investigate the complaint and will inform the responsible Minister and the principal officer of the department or authority that its action is to be investigated. The investigation will be in private and in such manner as the Ombudsman thinks fit. The Ombudsman will have the right to obtain information and to call for files. Only in certain defined areas will a department or prescribed authority be able to refuse production of documents or the giving of information. Such a refusal must be backed by the certificate of the Attorney-General furnished to the Ombudsman certifying that the disclosure of information concerning a specified matter would be contrary to the public interest because it would prejudice the security, defence or international relations of Australia, relations between the Australian Government and the government of a State, or that it would involve the disclosure of deliberations or decisions of the Cabinet or of a committee of the Cabinet, or that it would involve the disclosure of deliberations of the Administrator's Council of the Northern Territory. A person is not excused from answering questions or furnishing documents on the grounds that he might be incriminated but his answer to an incriminating question is not admissable in evidence against him. 
The Ombudsman is empowered to enter premises for the purpose of his investigations, and even in the case of prohibited places under special Acts, he may obtain entry with the permission of the Minister. Following his investigation the Ombudsman will report in the first instance to the department or authority concerned, and in his report he may make suggestions and recommendations. Normally this report should have the effect of remedying the matter complained of. In every case the Ombudsman must furnish a copy of his report to the responsible Minister. Where the department or authority fails to take appropriate action, then the Ombudsman can report to the Prime Minister and also to the Parliament. This special report is in addition to the periodic reports which he will be giving to Parliament. Reports to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory are provided for in relation to matters arising in those regions. 
The Ombudsman is given security of tenure. He holds office until he attains the age of 65, and he may be removed only on an address praying for his removal being presented to the GovernorGeneral by each House of Parliament in the same session. The Act provides for the appointment of a person to act as Ombudsman during a vacancy but a person appointed to act as Ombudsman shall not continue to act after 12 months from the occurrence of the vacancy. The Ombudsman and his staff are obliged to observe secrecy with regard to confidential information which is obtained in the course of investigations. 
It is intended that the administrative actions of all government authorities that deal with the public should be subject to investigation by the Ombudsman. Authorities will be excluded by regulation only for cogent and special reasons. The Bill is the result of the deliberations of the distinguished members of the Bland Committee and of further discussions with people experienced in this area. The practising Ombudsmen overseas and in Australia were also consulted. The Government believes it is an important step towards the goal of improving the enjoyment of civil liberties by Australian citizens and towards better administration in Australia. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Greenwood)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make it an offence for a person who is an officer, member or employee of an organisation registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to steal, fraudulently misappropriate or fraudulently convert to his own use any money or property belonging to the organisation. As Parliament has legislated in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to provide for the registration and incorporation of organisations to represent employers and employees and that such organisations may own property and are required to keep accounts of receipts, payments, funds and effects and to file records with the Registrar, it is appropriate that provision be made by Parliament for the offence proposed by this Bill. 
Section 71 of the Crimes Act 1914-1973 contains a similar offence except that it relates to any person who steals or fraudulently misappropriates or fraudulently converts to his own use any property belonging to the Commonwealth or to any public authority under the Commonwealth. The penalty for this offence is a maximum period of imprisonment for 7 years and it is the same penalty that is proposed for the offence created by this Bill. Sub-section (2) of proposed new section 9 1 of the Crimes Act is designed to facilitate proof in proceedings where it is not possible to trace the individual items or to prove the conversion of individual property or money. The effect is that, where the books of account are kept by the defendant and these books show a general deficiency, the books can be used as evidence of the stealing, misappropriation or conversion of the sum specified in the indictment. A similar provision is contained in section 71a of the Crimes Act and a provision along these lines is found in the legislation of the States. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Greenwood)  adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator James  McClelland) proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable Senator's questions: 
1 ) The Secretary; First Parliamentary Counsel; Director of Law, Darwin; Chief Stipendiary Magistrate, Darwin; Stipendiary Magistrate, Darwin; Stipendiary Magistrate, Alice Springs; Crown Prosecutor, Alice Springs. 
Cars have been provided to the Secretary and the First Parliamentary Counsel because of their needs, particularly demands on their time after normal hours, and because of the level of their positions. 
The remaining cars are allocated to officers in the Northern Territory for use during and after normal hours. These cars are also available for general Departmental use but the officer allocated the car has first priority. The basis of allocation of cars generally to this Department in the Northern Territory is under review. 
The current total annual cost of all such cars is approximately $5,000. 
I do not have the statistics at my fingertips, but knowing the honourable senator as I do I have no reason to doubt that he would be giving the Senate accurate information. It is of course merely another way of saying what we all know- that is, that the economy at the present time is in a state of recession. However, if the honourable senator is genuinely seeking information I will check on his figures and let him know whether he has stated the position accurately. 

 -Yes, Mr President. The Senate, indeed the country, has reason to be grateful to  Senator McLaren  for uncovering this social anachronism. I can now inform him that a draft Bill to amend the Ordinance is presently being prepared. The Bill will require a debtor to be left with an amount equal to the minimum weekly wage for adult males in Canberra as determined by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or, if the debtor has no dependants, 75 per cent of that amount. The Bill will also remove the discrimination against women wage earners which is in the present legislation. It is expected that the Bill will shortly be submitted to the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory for consideration. 
Gladly,  Mr President.  I think  Senator Guilfoyle  quite unwontedly has been guilty of a facile oversimplification of the statement made by the Treasurer. The Treasurer pointed tentatively, cautiously and anything but euphorically to slight signs of upturn in certain aspects of our economy. But I think that a careful examination of everything that he said in the Budget Speech would lead any fair minded person to the conclusion that he was being anything but over optimistic. He stressed the fact that the economy still faces grave perils, that any recovery which is evident is fragile and tentative and that the measures which he put in as a package in his Budget are all essential if the economy is to have any real chance of firm and certain recovery. I am sure that if  Mr Hayden  were here in this chamber to answer  Senator Guilfoyle  's question he would gladly concede that the real state of the economy at this moment is one of recession. I see no conflict whatsoever between what I said in answer to  Senator Cotton  and what  Mr Hayden  said in the Budget Speech. I think that the beginning of wisdom is to confess our difficulties. Our difficulties are of an economy still in a state of deep recession. We hope that there are signs of recovery. We believe that we have done the correct things to speed that recovery, but we will not blink the fact that the state of the economy as at the present time is depressed. 
I am aware of the statement of the Leader of the Opposition to which  Senator Button  referred. I believe it is an extract from a waffling, flaccid document known as the new industrial policy of the Liberal Party. Unfortunately,  Mr Fraser  is a little late in the field of anti-discrimination. The Australian Government already has a policy against discrimination in employment. Australia is committed to the implementation of this policy by an international agreement, International Labour Organisation Convention No. 111. My predecessor first enunciated this policy in May 1973. The Australian Government, after consultation with the States, was able to achieve ratification of this Convention on 15 June 1973. It should be noted that previous governments, which have suddenly discovered the virtues of anti-discrimination, never took any steps towards ratification of that document. They become converts to high principles evidently only in Opposition. Ratification of the Convention obliges Australia to eliminate discrimination in employment on the grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. This obligation has been fully accepted. 
A national committee and committees in each State have been set up to investigate complaints of discrimination in employment and occupation. The committees have a conciliatory and educational function. I am pleased to advise the Senate that they have achieved wide community acceptance. They have been able to achieve satisfactory resolution of a number of complaints by employees, after discussions with employers. They have drawn up guidelines for the removal of discrimination in advertising employment. The first annual report of the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation was tabled in Parliament on 5 March last and contains all the above information. Apparently it has escaped the attention of the honourable member for Wannon, because he speaks as though the high principles which he so belatedly espouses are his personal discovery. 
I am asked this question in a representative capacity. I assume that if representations were made by such a body they would be made to the AttorneyGeneral. They certainly have not been made to me. I will take up the matter with the AttorneyGeneral and ask him, firstly, whether he has received such representations and, secondly, whether he considers it possible and/or desirable to act on those representations, and I will let the honourable senator have a reply. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) If the question relates to refugees accorded refugee status by UNHCR. from Spanish-speaking countries of South America, the total number was 38 1 during 1974. 
The precise cost incurred by the Australian Government in respect of the movement of these refugees is not available at this stage, but would amount to approximately $200,000. 
The Australian Government has no contract with Air France. 
Those refugees accepted were given no guarantee of assured employment. They were, however, counselled regarding Australia 's present employment situation. 
Unemployment figures in respect of refugees who arrived in 1974 and are now in the community are not available, but among those residing in hostels throughout Australia on 4.8.75 there were 27 breadwinners of Chilean nationality both refugees and non-refugees not in employment. Of these  9  were in hostels for periods of less than 2 weeks. 
These figures are not available. It is likely that only a small proportion of those would speak English. English classes are conducted at migrant hostels at which those needing tuition may attend. 
I am not aware of the details of the industrial dispute mentioned by the honourable senator. If the facts are as he relates them, they are of course very disturbing as the motor industry already faces sufficient difficulties. I will make it my business to find out the position about the industrial upheaval that he mentions and do whatever is within my power to bring the matter to a speedy conclusion. 
I might mention in passing, seeing that we have been referred to the troubles of the Chrysler establishment at Lonsdale, that this Government is acutely interested in the long term fate of the Chrysler company, and indeed of the motor car industry in and around Adelaide. Recent moves taken by the Government will, I am sure, after the present industrial trouble has been solved ensure the long term viability of the motor car industry in the State of South Australia. 
It happens that I have some information on this subject because recently I asked my Department to look into the situation of Geelong, which I think we have to confess has in recent years been a particularly vulnerable industrial centre. I had also been approached by the  Speaker  in the other place, in his capacity as the honourable member for Corio, expressing his concern about the employment situation in Geelong. There has been no special survey in the Geelong area carried out by my Department in recent times, although I am advised that the Cities Commission, on behalf of the Geelong Growth Centre Planning Group, undertook a study of the structure and sources of unemployment in the Geelong area, and the Commission's report entitled 'Employment in Geelong' was released in July this year. However, my Department has been keeping a close watch on the employment situation in Geelong which is, as  Senator Poyser  suggests, an area in which the level of unemployment is normally higher than the national average. 
At the end of July 1975 the proportion of the estimated work force registered as unemployed in Geelong was 7.5 per cent compared with a national figure of 4.2 per cent. At the end of July 1966-I quote this figure to underline the long term vulnerability of this centre- registered unemployment in Geelong represented 3.0 per cent of the work force as against a national average of 1.2 per cent. In 1971 it was 2.8 per cent compared with 1.2 per cent nationally. In fact, the Geelong unemployment rate has been considerably higher than the national rate in each of the last 10 years. 

 Senator Poyser also asked about the increase in the number of registered unemployed shown in the most recent figures. I am happy to be able to tell him that the most recent figures show a decrease in unemployment. The Geelong employment office area, which includes surrounding areas as well as the city of Geelong, had a total of 5042 people registered at the end of July, which was a decrease of 155 from the number registered at the end of June, and the June figure represented a decline of 9 1 from the number registered at the end of May. Despite this recent decline in unemployment, the situation in Geelong is of course serious and gives the Government cause for great concern. The National Employment and Training scheme, the Regional Employment Development scheme, the Structural Adjustment Assistance scheme and the scheme for Special Assistance for NonMetropolitan Areas are some attempts which the Government has made to give real assistance to the residents of the area. 
I am not in a position to answer the last leg of the honourable senator's question but I will investigate that aspect and let him have a reply soon. I am in a position to give the honourable senator some information about the question he asked yesterday concerning the Colombo Plan and private students who wish to seek resident status in Australia. The situation with regard to them is as follows: Under normal policy private students may seek resident status upon the completion of their courses of study but sponsored or formerly sponsored students are expected to return home and then apply the benefits of their training in Australia to the economic development of their own countries. They are not, therefore, normally granted resident status. However, in view of the special situation in South Vietnam, the Prime Minister announced on 3 April last that students from that country would be permitted to defer their departure from Australia. Consequently it has been the practice to extend temporary resident status until 31 December 1975 to any South Vietnamese student who did not already hold such an authority. Our intention is to reexamine the position of those students towards the end of the year. 
In the meantime any private student from South Vietnam who successfully completes his studies will be eligible to apply for resident status. Any applications for resident status lodged by sponsored students from that country will be held over until they have completed their studies in Australia, when they will be determined in the light of developments in their home country. All of the students concerned will, of course, be permitted to remain here until the position has been clarified. 
Yes, I agree that their position should be clarified as soon as possible and that they should not be left in any state of suspended animation or doubt about their future in this country. I will be urging the Government to reach a speedy decision on that matter. 
I understand that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry had some conversations this week at least with the management of Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd. I am unaware of whether he has also had discussions with the management of Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd. However, I will see the Minister in the near future and get a full report from him on the latest situation in relation to these 2 beleaguered companies and let the honourable senator have the information as soon as I have it. 
-Yes, I recall the question, and I express my regret to the honourable senator that it has taken rather a long time to supply him with an answer. However, I am now in possession of the information he wants and the answer is this: Yes, the Australian Government has advertised that the Australian Legal Aid Office is available to give legal advice on matters pertaining to the Trade Practices Act. Secondly, the Australian Legal Aid Office gives advice on all matters arising under Federal law but no statistics are kept of the precise number of persons who seek advice in regard to each statute. However, the  Deputy  Director of the Australian Legal Aid Office in Tasmania has estimated that advice has been given to several hundred persons throughout the State in regard to matters arising under the Trade Practices Act. 
I have not seen the statement by the Commissioner for Community Relations to which the honourable senator referred, but I heartily applaud the Commissioner's statement that the Government would never again close its doors on Asia. No distinction is made on the basis of origin, colour, race or creed in respect of the skilled people that the country is still seeking. If the skills that we seek happen to emanate from Asia, they are just as welcome as if they emanated from Britain or Europe and will continue to be so welcome. With regard to family reunions, because of the budgetary situation we have been reluctantly forced to cut down on the amount which will be available in the current year for assisted passages, but persons in Asia who wish to be reunited with relatives living in Australia will strike no more impediments than will people from other countries. The only limitation will be on the amount available for assisted passages. I can assure  Senator Davidson  that, in general, persons in Asia who wish to come to Australia are under no greater handicaps than are persons from any other part of the world who wish to come to Australia. 
Pursuant to section 37 of the Law Reform Commission Act 1973 1 present the report of the Law Reform Commission on complaints against police. I seek leave to make a short statement in relation to that report. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
(1)- 
Yes. 
b) There was no reference to administrative costs to the Australian Government in the offer. 
and (3) The previous Non-metropolitan and Metropolitan Unemployment Relief Schemes were administered by the Victorian Government. Funds were provided to the State Government by the Australian Government and all decisions as to where and how the moneys were spent were made by the Government of Victoria. 
Under the Regional Employment Development Scheme the Australian Government laid down guidelines regarding its operation, inter alia, ensuring that expenditure is concentrated where it is most needed, that is, where unemployment is greatest. Under the previous Schemes there was no provision for community groups to initiate worthwhile projects; this aspect has been stressed under the RED Scheme. 
The RED Scheme has also required that at least SO per cent of grants for projects must be spent on the wages of unemployed persons; the persons must be registered with and recruited through the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
As to the administration of REDS, State Committees (on which State Governments are well represented as well as the Australian Government) have played a key role in the approval of projects; they have had complete autonomy to recommend approval direct to the Minister for Labor and Immigration of all projects not exceeding $100,000 (approximately 90 per cent of all projects). In addition Federal Members have been involved regarding projects in their electorate. 
At the end of June 1 975, 1 978 projects had been approved in Victoria, involving Australian Government assistance of $36,732,000 and employment for 13 767 unemployed persons. 
The differences in approach between the previous Schemes and REDS speak for themselves. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  (1)I am informed that in the 12 months ending 30.4.75: 
320 Chilean refugees came to Australia from neighbouring South American countries; 
55 non-Chilean refugees came from Chile. 
These were all awarded refugee status by UNHCR. 
All refugees mentioned in (i) and (ii) above would have applied for entry to Australia and the necessary formalities would have been completed. The criteria for entry, however, as is usual in refugee situations, would have been less exacting than those for migrant entry. During the 12 months ending 30.4.75 1900 migrants from Chile were admitted. Among these were 10 political prisoners. Because of the unusual circumstances attending the release of the prisoners and the requirement that they leave Chile immediately, basic formalities, e.g., health examination, were completed after arrival in Australia. 
I had an opportunity while in Hobart last Friday to observe at first hand the disruption of the life of the city of Hobart caused by the long drawn out strike on the Tasman Bridge. I was informed while I was there that the head contractor, John Holland (Constructions) Pty Ltd, was proposing to withdraw from the site. Of course this would be a tragic event which would condemn the people of the city of Hobart to having their city cut in half for an indefinite period. Accordingly, when I came back from Tasmania I contacted the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Mr Justice  Moore, and asked him to make available the services of a commissioner, Commissioner Judith Cohen, who has been closely associated with the dispute, in a further attempt to find a solution to the dispute.  His  Honour informed me that he would make Commissioner Cohen available and that she would be in Hobart tomorrow in an attempt to settle the dispute. The Australian Government has a special interest in the settlement of the dispute and, indeed, in the union's claims as the Australian Government will be footing the bill for the repair of the bridge. 
I am aware of a charge that has been made by a certain television commentator which is reported in this morning's Press, to the effect that the Australian Government has done precious little for people wanting to get out of Timor. I must confess that I am totally flabbergasted that such a charge could be made. The facts of the situation relating to the Timor refugees completely belie that criticism. Australia has accepted freely every one of the evacuees who fled Timor and landed on Australian soil seeking help and who, for whatever reason, does not wish to return to Portugal at this stage. If  Senator Webster,  who is attempting to interject, wants to hear this information perhaps he will stop muttering. If he were to restrain his neanderthal grunts he might hear something. In total, 2235 people have come to Australia from Timor since the first evacuee ship reached Darwin on 14 August. Some 629 have been or are being repatriated to Portugal while the remaining 1546 have been allowed to stay. Of these, more than 1000 have been relocated in Government hostels in the States or given into the care of relatives who are already living in Australia. Those placed in hostels have been provided with every assistance possible. They have been housed and fed and with the assistance of voluntary organisations, to which I pay a tribute, have been provided with clothing which they needed so desperately in our climate. 
In many instances, through the work of the Government's officers and in co-operation with welfare agencies, families have been united. Evacuees have been helped in their efforts to find work and already some are in employment. Arrangements are being made for these people to be given intensive English instruction to help them in their employment. Others in the hostels will soon begin tuition in English at various levels. On arrival in Australia a number of evacuees were found to be in poor health and are now receiving special medical attention. I should like to stress that there could not have been closer co-operation between the Australian Government and the Portuguese consular representatives throughout the relief emergency. The assistance given by voluntary welfare organisations has been magnificent, as has been the assistance from the people of Darwin who themselves are already suffering great deprivations. I would add that in this close working relationship of Government, private bodies and consular staff there has been no taint of criticism of Australia's efforts to assist the evacuees. 
-At the outset I should point out that the final responsibility for the determination of eligibility for unemployment relief rests with my colleague the Minister for Social Security, although for many years it has been a practice in matters where there is any doubt of eligibility for advice to be tendered by the Minister for Labor. As far as payment of unemployment benefit to miners in southern New South Wales and Queensland is concerned, there was consultation between the Minister for Social Security and myself before the decision not to pay unemployment relief was reached. However, tomorrow both the Minister for Social Security and I will be meeting in Canberra with representatives of the South Coast of New South Wales Trades and Labor Council and the Miners Federation and the whole situation as to the payment of unemployment benefit to the miners will be finally resolved after that meeting. My Department has been advised by the Department of Social Security that no miners have knowingly been paid unemployment benefits in the current situation, either in southern New South Wales or in Queensland. 
I understand that this question has been answered in some detail by the Prime Minister in another place, but seeing that it is directed to me I suppose I can give the honourable senator the benefit of my views on the action that has been taken in respect of these people. I think that what motivated the Government in asking these gentlemen for these pledges- I understand that this is not entirely an unprecedented act but one which has some precedent in the lives of previous governments- was not any desire to discriminate, but after the long, dreadful war which has caused us to have refugees from Vietnam at all, a war which was enthusiastically supported by our opponents, a war on which they constantly poured fuel, a war which they assisted to prolong, we are anxious that those whom we receive from that unfortunate country should not form a tiny enclave in this country to plot against the Government which has been set up in Vietnam. 
We are familiar with the fact that the Opposition parties constantly make common cause with those from other countries who hope to stir up a resurgence of hostilities in the countries from which they came. These people constantly attend at what they call Captive Nations meetings and encourage people from small countries to believe that somehow or other they will lend them military aid to restore the boundaries of countries which have long since been changed. It is to guard against encouraging the Opposition to think that the presence of a small number of fugitives from a discredited regime in South Vietnam would get such encouragement that the Government has sought reassurances from these people in this case. 
-No, there is a normal precaution to preserve this country from being embroiled in the quarrels which were so eagerly fermented by the Opposition over a long period with total disregard to loss of life, damage to property and exacerbation of long standing national hatreds. 
-I am aware of the pastoral letter referred to by the honourable senator. I would suggest to him that he should defer his own indignation until he has had an opportunity to read the document upon which the pastoral letter was based. It is a document which stemmed from a law reform commission. 
-No, it has not been tabled yet. I am sorry, it stemmed not from a law reform commission but from a working party of the Attorney-General 's Department. It is not the adopted policy of the Government. 
I am rather surprised that the question was asked by  Senator Baume.  I had expected  Senator Greenwood  to be the one who would be frothing at the mouth over this matter. I suggest to all honourable gentlemen opposite that before they pass judgment upon what at the present time is merely a draft code they await a further discussion of the matter and await the introduction by the Government of this draft code into the Parliament in the way of an ordinance. They will be given plenty of opportunity to debate the matter, to give the Australian public the benefit of their lofty thoughts on the matter of incest and all other matters and to have the matter considered in a calm, rational, unexcited, unhysterical way. But, as of now, it is not the adopted policy of the Government; it is merely a working draft that has been put to us for consideration. 
I do not have a copy of the document and I was not referring to the document, so I am not under an obligation to table any such document. 
I was holding a different document with which I was momentarily confused and which I will be tabling this afternoon. It so happens, if the honourable senator and other honourable senators cannot contain their impatience about what the draft paper has to say on the question of the alleged proposal to abolish incest - 
-No, I am reading from some notes that I had prepared in anticipation that this question would be asked. There is nothing exceptional about that. There are some matters about which it can be confidently predicted that we will get either premeditated or hysterical effusions from honourable senators opposite. If the honourable senator would like to know a little more about the draft proposal to abolish incest as a crime for adult persons, I am in a position to tell him something about it. It might be said that there now appears to be general agreement among authorities that there is insufficient evidence to justify, on genetic grounds alone, treating incest as a crime. I am not talking about whether it is morally reprehensible, a subject for indignation, something which displeases us all and a centuries old taboo. I am talking about the question- one to which I would think a previous AttorneyGeneral would be prepared to turn his mind in a calm way- whether incest can any longer justifiably be treated as a crime among people over the age of 18. Traditionally, incest has been treated as a crime primarily for the protection of children from the depredations of their elders. There has been a growing belief that for those over the age of 18 incest should no longer be treated as a crime. 
-That is the primitive approach of a man who calls himself a lawyer.  Senator Greenwood  would know, as a previous Attorney-General, that until 195 1 it was a very limited offence in the Australian Capital Territory, namely, that of carnal knowledge by a father or stepfather of his daughter or stepdaughter of or above the age of 10 years and under the age of 16 years. Amendments in 195 1 included the crime of incest but so far as I am able to ascertain there has been no prosecution for that offence since the amendments were made. 
-I commend  Senator Greenwood  for the calm with which he, as a lawyer, approaches these questions. There is no desire by this Government either to advocate, promote or condone incest. 
We are facing up to the social fact that making incest a crime for people over the age of 18 years is at least something which grown men should examine calmly. I repeat what I said originally: There has been no decision taken by this Government in the matter. A proposal has been put forward by a working party along these lines. We, as people who take reform of the law seriously, are seriously examining this matter. We leave it to honourable senators opposite to approach these problems frothing at the mouth. We prefer to think about them. 
I am not familiar with the specific scheme mentioned by the honourable senator- that is, the King Island Council scheme- but I will have a look at it. It is a fact that a considerable number of Regional Employment Development projects which have already been approved had to be cancelled in the light of the reduction of the amount of money available under the RED scheme as provided by the Budget. I cannot tell the honourable senator off the top of my head whether the King Island scheme is one of those, but I will make inquiries about it and let him know. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
I am advised that the answers to the specific questions are: 
The Government has received from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization a proposal that a Beef Cattle Research Laboratory be constructed on land vested in the organisation at Rockhampton, 
Queensland. The proposed new laboratory would replace the inadequate, sub-standard and unsafe facilities at Rockhampton at present used by the organisation for beef cattle research. The present estimate of cost is $4m. 
The organisation's proposal was received in October 1974. 
The proposal for the construction of the Beef Cattle Research Laboratory is still under consideration by the Government. In the meantime, design work is proceeding. 
-The Joint Committee on the Pecuniary Interests of Members of the Parliament has not yet completed its deliberations. As a matter of fact, it will be meeting today to finalise its report, and it is hoped that it will set down guidelines for the proper ethical conduct of members of the Parliament. When its report is adopted by the Parliament, as I hope it will be, I take it that all members who are interested in such matters as superphosphate bounties will look closely at their consciences to see whether they in fact satisfy the guidelines.  Senator Webster,  who is trying to interject, especially has an interest in this matter. 
-That was not so much a question as a propaganda speech. I know that the Opposition finds it very difficult to fault the conduct of the Government in relation to the unfortunate people who have had to leave Timor recently. The recital that I gave yesterday of the series of steps taken by the Government in respect of the people who have had to leave Timor must have been rather embarrassing to the Opposition, because it was a recital of a humanitarian - 
-Because the Opposition does not like to give the Government credit for anything. That is why the Opposition did not like it. We have concentrated, in respect of the Timorese refugees, on putting first things first; that is, on making transport available to get them out of the country, on making transport available to bring them to southern centres so that they will not impose an additional burden upon the beleaguered city of Darwin, on providing them with clothing and food, on providing them with some tuition in basic English and, in many cases, on providing them with jobs. I would like to know what further action we could have taken in respect of those people. We have said, and I say it again now, that we have given them permission to stay in Australia on a temporary basis while we screen them and decide their future. I would hope that, subject to the normal health checks, all of them would be allowed to stay in Australia; but I think that to expect us to have made decisions about this matter at this stage shows a niggling and unworthy attitude on the part of the Opposition. 
On 28 August,  Senator Jessop  asked me a question without notice on an industrial dispute in Geelong which he said could result in substantial lay-offs at Chrysler plants in South Australia. The dispute is at No-Sag Springs, Geelong. I am informed that 286 employees of the company have been on strike since 25 August over a claim for a wage increase of $9.30 a week. The workers are largely non-English speaking migrants and the majority are members of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia. In effect, the company is respondent to the metal industry award and as a result employees received all increases granted under that award in 1974. 
It appears that the employees are mistakenly under the impression that they should receive a flow-on of the $9,30 increase recently granted to vehicle industry workers by  Mr Commissioner  Clarkson. Because of alleged communication problems it would seem that there has been some difficulty in getting this message across to them. I am informed that  Mr Townsend,  Acting Federal Secretary of the Vehicle Builders Employees Federation, addressed a meeting of the striking employees yesterday. As a result of the meeting the striking employees voted to return to work this morning, that is, today, and to leave their claims in abeyance until after the decision is announced in the present wage indexation case. It is understood now that stand-downs at Chrysler's South Australian plants will not take place. In fact I am advised the earlier reports of stand-downs as indicated by  Senator Jessop  were a misinterpretation of facts surrounding the dispute. 
To understand the Government's strategy in framing the Budget which the Senate is now considering I think it is useful to examine briefly the economic circumstances prevailing at the time the Budget was introduced. I submit that they could be briefly summarised as follows: 
First, low levels of economic activity in the private sector with high levels of public sector expenditure; secondly, some signs- I do not want to exaggerate them but some signs- of recovery in private consumption and dwelling investment and a levelling out in the decline in private sector employment; thirdly, a high but somewhat moderating rate of inflation and the prospect of a continued underlying decline in wage increases, a tendency which has been confirmed even more in the time since the Budget was announced; and finally low levels of business confidence and the expectation of a decline in real terms in private investment in the year 1975-76. The seasonally adjusted level of registered unemployment, 4.8 per cent at the end of July, the low levels of average overtime, 1.6 hours seasonally adjusted level in June, and the decline in the ANZ index of factory production in May- the index was 12 per cent below that of a year ago- provide the testimony of spare capacity presently existing in the economy. However, the preliminary national accounts estimates for the June quarter indicate that in response to the series of fiscal monetary and external policy measures implemented in the second half of last year a recovery was occurring in some elements of private sector demand. Following an increase of 2 per cent in the March quarter, private consumption expenditure increased by a further 2.3 per cent in the June quarter. Reflecting increases in the number of dwellings commenced in the March and June quarters, private dwelling investment increased by 4 per cent, and this increase was the first since the September quarter of 1 973. 
-Yes. Although private non-dwelling investment also increased, the available surveys of business sector expectations and other indications did not lend much hope that that improvement would be sustained in the coming quarters. Furthermore, the reversion at the beginning of July to the 1974- 75 income tax schedule, the phasing out of the temporary reduction in sales tax on motor vehicles which was introduced as an emergency measure to counter the crisis in the motor vehicles industry in December last year, and the increases in indirect taxes and charges announced both before and at the time of the Budget raised the prospect that the above average rates of improvement evident in private consumption expenditure in the March and June quarters might not be sustained in the first half of 
1975- 76. 
An important objective of the Budget from the point of view of the real level of economic activity was, as a consequence of the factors that I have mentioned, to ensure that the momentum which had been built up in the first half of 1975- as I said earlier it was a slight momentum; I do not want to overstate it- would not be curtailed. On the other hand, there was also the more medium term requirement of generating some recovery in private sector investment. That is necessary if supply constraints are not to become important in the second half of 1 976. 
The main features of the Budget- I do not think this is contentious- are: Firstly, the estimated increase in total outlays in 1975-76 of 22.9 per cent is half that of the increase in 1974- 75 of 45.8 per cent. This is an admission by the Government that expenditure in the public sector was running at too high a level for present conditions in the economy. Secondly, the estimated increase of 25.2 per cent in total receipts is a little faster than the estimated increase in outlays but below the actual increase of 27.9 per cent recorded in 1974-75. The estimated overall deficit of $2,798m is $232m greater than the actual deficit of 1974-75. The domestic deficit is estimated- of course, as we all know, it can be only an estimate at this stage- at $2,068m, which is an increase of $2 19m. The estimated outlays are equivalent to about the same proportion of forecast gross domestic product in 1975-76 as in 1974-75; that is, about 30.5 per cent. The estimated domestic deficit in 1975- 76 is equivalent to a slightly smaller proportion of forecast gross domestic product than the 3.3 per cent recorded in 1974-75. These are, in broad outline, the principal features of the Budget. 
In assessing the impact of increases in government expenditure on real activity, account must be taken of both the inflation element in expenditure on goods and services and the composition of outlays. Average weekly earnings are expected to increase in 1975-76 by between 20 per cent and 22 per cent. We hope that the increase will be less, but that is a realistic and, I suppose, rather pessimistic view of the likely increase in average weekly earnings. 
-Yes. I think it was nearer to 28 per cent. Of course, that was a disastrous figure. I suggest that the starting point of all serious economic thought would be that the disastrous level of percentage increase in wages and salaries last year had to be cut back at all costs and by whatever methods were available. 
We are basing our proposals on this rather gloomy but I hope rather overstated increase of between 20 per cent and 22 per cent. A large proportion of government expenditure on goods and services relates to wages. It is therefore apparent that the increase in real government expenditure on goods and services in 1975-76 will be modest. The Treasury has indicated in the attachments to the Budget that real expenditure on final goods and services by all levels of government will not increase in 1975-76. In regard to the composition of expenditure, the Budget estimates indicate that those items of expenditure which have a greater impact on economic activity, for example capital and current expenditure, will increase at a slower rate than those items which have a smaller impact, for example transfer payments. Current expenditure and capital expenditure of the total government sector are expected to increase by 2 1.9 per cent and 0. 1 per cent respectively, compared with increases of 29 per cent and 60 per cent in 1 974-75. 1 cite those figures to instance the very serious efforts which the Government has made to cut back on expenditure in the public sector. Transfer payments are expected to increase by 31.3 per cent, compared with 41 per cent in 1974-75. 
A further point to be taken into account in evaluating the 1975-76 Budget is that a large proportion of the Budget deficit in 1974-75 was concentrated in the second half of the year. As a matter of fact, the deficit in the second half of 1974-75 was running at an annual rate of approximately $4,000m. This compares with the expected deficit for 1975-76 of close to $2,800m. Whilst the extent of the expansionary measures implemented during 1974-75 obviously could not be maintained, it is apparent from the figures I have cited that the impetus from the government sector as a result of the 1 975-76 Budget will be curtailed markedly. 
-Yes. It was, in the main, a response by the Government to the downturn in economic activity- an understandable response, especially by a party and in a society which have been conditioned during the post-war period to resistance to high levels of unemployment. As we freely concede, the economy has paid a price for this expansion in the deficit. The impetus from the government sector as a result of this Budget will be curtailed markedly. This is reinforced by the expectation that real government expenditure on goods and services will not increase during 1975-76. 
The measures taken on the revenue side must be assessed against the expectations of both trade unions and employers. Whilst economic and political constraints obviously limited the ability of the Government to implement in full the recommendations of the Mathews Committee as we would like to have done, the loss to revenue of $400m is modest when compared to the estimated revenue loss of more than $2, 500m which would have accompanied the full implementation of the Mathews Committee recommendations. We say that the restructuring of the marginal tax scale, which we have undertaken in the Budget, and the adoption of the rebate system represent significant advances in the attainment of a more equitable and efficient income tax system. 
I would like to say a few words on the question of wage indexation not only because it is a policy for which in my portfolio I am saddled with the responsibility but also because it is such an integral part of the Government's overall Budget strategy. We freely concede that investment in the private sector is not likely to take off in any real sense until businessmen can see some signs of an abatement in the level of inflation. An examination of the figures relating to private enterprise over the last year- this was an examination that I was able to make in my previous portfolio of Manufacturing Industry- reinforced by many contacts with businessmen certainly convinced me that private enterprise, especially the manufacturing sector, is indeed in a state of crisis such as it has not faced in the post-war period. The squeeze on profits which is inseparable from the sort of wage increases that we witnessed last year- increases of roughly 28 per cent- resulted not only in a situation in which businessmen literally had no retained earnings to invest but in many instances they were actually struggling to maintain sufficient liquidity to keep their business in being. There could be no doubt about this. No matter what some people may think, this is not propaganda on the part of the business sector. I made it my business, as I said, to talk to businessmen, to have a close look at the state of business, and I am thoroughly convinced that its situation over the recent period was and indeed still is a parlous one. 
I know that the honourable senator and the more thoughtful members of his Party take no comfort in the fact that business is in this situation at a time when there happens to be a Labor government in office, but it is simplistic, I suggest, to say that all of these difficulties or even most of them are caused by the fact that we have a Labor Government in this country. After all, the simple fact is- and in saying this I do not for one moment suggest that no errors in economic management have been made by this Government- that in many countries with many different types of government we see the same picture. We see deep recession in the United States, in the United Kingdom, throughout Europe and in Japan and, of course, it is a matter of notoriety that these are countries with a great variety of types of government, yet they all share similar problems. The problem of inflation is a new phenomenon. It is a phenomenon which has defied solution by the experts just as in the 1930s there appeared to be no solution whatsoever to the problem of endemic unemployment until a man named John Maynard Keynes appeared on the scene and came up with what seemed to be so simple a solution that we wondered why it had not been discovered before. So in our age we have this new phenomenon of inflation which appears to have taken on the character of an incurable disease. I think it can be conceded that certain ingredients, certain manifestations of the disease, have been identified and that there is now pretty general agreement that at the present stage of our economic difficulties uncontrolled increases in wages are probably the most important ingredients in continuing inflation. For that reason the Government has set itself the task of attempting to achieve some sort of wage pause. 
I suggest to honourable senators opposite that if they were in government at the present time they would find this task as difficult and as daunting as the Government finds it, and as I in particular find it. To those who may have some sadistic attitude towards the Government, and perhaps towards me, I suggest that they might cast their eyes out on the lawns opposite Parliament House this afternoon when, according to the reports, some thousands of angry miners are coming here to demonstrate specifically against me. That is a penalty which I am prepared to pay and which the Government is prepared to pay. We are prepared to do unpopular things, unpalatable things, in order to make some attempt to peg back inflation by a few percentage points. 
I must say that I find it highly irresponsible and depressing to watch the attempts that are made in some sections of the Press to sabotage the efforts which this Government is making to cope with the problem of inflation. Only this week, on Tuesday, there appeared as though by some common policy editorials in the 2 main newspapers circulating in the Sydney area, the  Sydney Morning Herald  and the  Australian  which had as their aim the attempt to torpedo the efforts at wage indexation which have been espoused by this Government, not as a panacea but as an attempt to achieve some sort of pause in escalating wage costs. The editorial in the  Australian  is headed 'The death throes of wage indexation', and it has the nerve to suggest that the Federal Government is not doing what it should be doing in order to help make wage indexation work. I cannot imagine what more the Government could be called upon to do. It has appeared in wages hearings before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to espouse wage indexation and to suggest that the unions should adhere to the guidelines that have been laid down by the Commission. The Government has intervened in hearings before the Public Service Arbitrator. It has intervened in the metal trades case. The Government has appealed and I especially have appealed- continually not only to trade union leaders but also to trade union members to convince them that it is in their interests to moderate their wage demands at the present time and to show them that it is counter-productive for them to think that great increases in monetary wages serve their interests in the long run. 
I do not like to be heard to be complaining about unfair treatment by the Press because I have always considered that that is par for the course. No government has any right to immunity or to special treatment by the Press, but within the confines of some sort of honest reporting I think credit should be given to the Government for the efforts it is making to ensure that wage indexation is a success. 
I have the support of the Government in that also, and I believe that it is unfortunate that the Government could not afford- and I believe that  Mr Fraser  also would not be able to afford- to implement at the present time the recommendations of the Mathews Committee. I know that it would be much easier to make wage indexation stick if we could also introduce the sort of personal income tax indexation which was suggested by the Mathews Committee. I think I can say without giving away any secrets that in our Cabinet discussions I urged constantly that the Government should attempt some form of tax indexation, although I became convinced after an examination of all the options that that was just not on this year. I believe that what  Mr Hayden  has done in the way of tax restructuring is as much as was feasible consistent with fiscal responsibility at the present stage. 
I did say quite frequently that I believed that part of the package to make wage indexation work was tax indexation. I still believe that and I regret that the Government has not been able to implement it. But I suggest that no government today would be able to implement the recommendations of the Mathews Committee without having a quite unconscionable deficit. Without going into too much detail, I think that an examination of  Mr Fraser  's proposals, an examination of the sort of Budget that he said he would implement, shows that an introduction of the recommendations of the Mathews Committee would involve him in an infinitely greater deficit than the one which the Government considers to be responsible at the present stage and which I understood  Mr Fraser  considered to be responsible. Admittedly, he proposes a 3-year phase-in of the Mathew 's Committee recommendations, not only in respect of personal tax but in respect of corporate tax as well. It is not clear to me just how that phasing would be implemented, but the figures speak for themselves. Personal tax indexation along the lines of the Mathews Committee recommendations would cost $1.25 billion a year; reduction in company taxation along the lines of the Mathews Committee recommendations would cost $1.5 billion a year.  Mr Fraser  also suggested the introduction of a 40 per cent investment allowance. That would cost $300m in a year. He proposed the re-introduction of the superphosphate bounty, which would cost $30m in a year, and he proposed to suspend the beef export levy, which would cost $20m a year. That is a total increased expenditure of more than $3 billion, and no matter how we fiddle the figures I suggest with respect that that would involve us in a deficit which none of the responsible economists considers would be justified in the present state of our economy.  Mr Fraser  also suggested a substantial reduction in government expenditure; that is, an additional cut on top of the cuts that the Government has already made. He suggested a further cut in the region of $ 1 billion. 
He also suggested other small cut-backs such as zero growth in the Public Service, a denial of further funds to the Australian Industry Development Corporation, which would involve $75m, and a denial of an additional $20m to the Australian Housing Corporation for new housing lending. I must say that I commend  Mr Fraser  for having made a serious attempt to give us an alternative to the Budget, which the Government considers to be the most responsible Budget possible at the moment, but with respect to him I suggest that he has grievously understated the cost of his revenue proposals and has substantially overstated the potential savings from his proposed expenditure restraints. I submit that the net result of a Fraser budget would be a greatly increased deficit and that the measures he sees as savings would mean greatly increased unemployment. So whilst admitting to some imperfections in the Budget, I defend it as being the most responsible that was available to the Government in its present situation. I hope that in examining our present economic situation and the measures which the Government has taken to resolve our difficulties, Opposition spokesmen will maintain the level of responsibility which the situation betokens. I do not think that anybody can take any pleasure in the economic plight in which this country finds itself at the present time. I think all men of good will should bend their endeavours to help to get us out of this plight, and I hope that the criticisms which I know will be forthcoming, while they may be forthright and hardhitting, will at least be responsible and worthy of the difficult situation in which the country finds itself. 
It is very flattering of  Senator Webster  to give me the qualifications of a soothsayer. I have read the speech of  Mr Hayden.  I have read the Budget papers. I did not find any reference in any of those documents to any inevitable increase in unemployment. I disagree with the predictions of  Mr Hawke  as to the likely level which unemployment is about to reach. I deprecate pessimistic, gloomy- almost hopefully gloomy- comments about what is likely to happen to the economy. One of the factors in a situation such as the present one is confidence in the community generally. I am sorry to say that confidence is sadly lacking at the moment. I do not think we do service to the business community, to the country, to the Government or to the Opposition if we attempt to stir up further lack of confidence. I will not go on record as saying that I expect more unemployment. I certainly do not hope that there will be more unemployment. 
I was not aware of the news item to which the honourable senator refers. Of course, I do not have that information in my head. I will make inquiries and let the honourable senator have an answer as soon as possible. 
-The Press has treated this appointment quite disgracefully. Is it suggested that this distinguished woman is in some way disqualified from appointment merely because she happens to be married to a man who is himself a senior public servant? It would be absurd if the Public Service were to be denied the service of the best person offering merely because of some such consideration. I have noted also, as the honourable senator has put to me, that the Opposition's spokesman on these matters jumped into the fray with some criticism of this appointment based on the proposition that it was a political appointment. That, of course, is a gross reflection upon the Public Service Board and upon the processes which were used in making this appointment. I suggest that the present Conference on Women and Politics needs no better demonstration of how the Australian Press and the Opposition are unwilling to judge a woman on her merits and how they seek to sensationalise the routine appointment of women to public jobs on the basis of totally irrelevant matters. 
In case the Opposition and the Press are interested in how this appointment was made, I would like to point out these few facts: The new position of Director of the Equal-Employment Opportunity Section on the staff of the Office of the Public Service Board was advertised as being open to persons inside and outside the Service. It is a Third Division Public Service position. The decision on the appointment was one for the Board. In accordance with the normal practice for such advertisements for the Board 's Office an interviewing committee of 2 senior Board officers and one senior officer from my Department was convened. It interviewed 12 of the 41 applicants, including  Ms Gail  Wilenski. Following further interviews of short-listed applicants by a further committee of two other more senior Board officers, the appointment of  Ms Wilenski  was approved. In making appointments, the Board decides solely in accordance with the merit principle within which its policy of equal employment opportunity is administered. I might mention, for anybody who does not happen to know, that  Ms Wilenski  is a highly gifted, highly qualified woman. She is a veterinary surgeon and also holds the degree of Master of Science. I cannot think of a better appointment to this position. 
-Senator Baume was good enough to tell me that he would be asking a question of this nature so I took the trouble to get a little information bearing on the matter. The health checks on evacuees from Timor arriving in Australia, as are the checks on all other people arriving from overseas, are the responsibility of the quarantine officers of the Department of Health. As soon as it was known that evacuees would be arriving in Darwin from Timor the Department of Health was alerted. I am informed that after consultation with the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine the Department of Health sent special instructions to the chief Australian medical officer in Darwin about the medical and quarantine procedures to be adopted. When the ships carrying evacuees arrived in Darwin quarantine procedures were carried out before any of the evacuees were allowed to mingle with the public. 
I am informed that the actual procedures included vaccination against smallpox of all those over 12 years of age who did not have evidence of current vaccination, unless of course this was contra-indicated such as in the case of a pregnancy, and the administration of medication to ensure that any who might carry malaria infection would not pass it on to Darwin mosquitoes, because it is well known that malaria is transferred by the anopheles mosquito which is present in Darwin. There has been examination of all evacuees, and hospitalisation of all who required closer clinical examination, and there has been X-ray examination for tuberculosis. In general, this was not done until the evacuees reached the southern States, as most of them have done. State government health authorities were contacted and it is understood that where they considered it necessary they carried out further checks. 
-Yes, I now have the information which was sought by the honourable senator. He asked me a question on 26 August concerning the extent to which the Government intends jurisdiction to be exercised by the Family Court of Australia under the Family Law Act. He asked also when the Court would be brought into operation and whether courts of petty sessions would continue to exercise jurisdiction in maintenance and custody matters. The Family Law Act provides for the Family Court of Australia, State supreme courts and State family courts to exercise jurisdiction in all matrimonial causes under the Act. Courts of summary jurisdiction are to have jurisdiction in all matrimonial causes except for proceedings for principal relief. However, the jurisdiction of the Family Court of Australia is not to be exercised except in accordance with proclamations which may extend that jurisdiction either by area or by class of proceedings. Also, the jurisdiction of the supreme courts and the courts of summary jurisdiction can be taken away in stages by proclamation. Thus, the jurisdiction of the Family Court of Australia can be phased in and the jurisdiction of the supreme courts and courts of summary jurisdiction can be phased out. 
The Attorneys-General of all States except Western Australia have now informed my colleague, the Attorney-General, that their respective governments do not propose to establish State family courts pursuant to section 41 of the Act. In view of this the AttorneyGeneral hopes that it will be possible for the Family Court of Australia to be established in those 5 States by the date the Act comes into operation, which has now been fixed by proclamation under section 2 of the Act as 5 January 1976. The extent to which jurisdiction will be given initially to the Family Court of Australia and taken away from existing courts has not been finally decided because it depends on progress in the build-up of staff, equipment and premises for the Family Court. However, since much work has already been done at this stage I can say that it seems probable that the Family Court will be ready to exercise jurisdiction in all matrimonial causes in the metropolitan areas of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Canberra, Hobart and Launceston at the commencement of the Act. The extent to which the courts of summary jurisdiction in these metropolitan areas will exercise jurisdiction in maintenance and custody concurrently with the Family Court also has not yet been finally decided and is still under discussion with the States. 
-Questions concerning the coal industry levy do not properly fall within my portfolio, but I take it that the question is directed to me primarily because of the possibility of unemployment arising from the levy. I had not heard of any such dangers but I shall make inquiries to discover whether there is any substance in any such rumours. Of course, the Government would be disturbed if any unemployment were to arise in the coal mining industry or, indeed, anywhere else in the workforce. But, as I said, I am not aware of the predictions which the honourable senator is making. I shall make some inquiries and let him know the result. 
I have read the article in this morning's  Australian Financial Review  which draws attention once again to the fact that it is quite unsatisfactory to have control of the securities industry left to State and Territory legislation. While this continues to be the position there will always be problems flowing from the inherent limitations of jurisdiction of each State and Territory. 
One thing at a time,  Senator. No  such jurisdictional problems will arise when the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill is in operation. 
I think it would be unhealthy if we were to deny the honourable senator a chance to let off steam occasionally. God knows what might happen to him. As I was saying, no such jurisdicitional problems will arise when the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill is in operation and deals with the securities industry on a national basis. The position under the Bill, moreover, is that there is a provision which applies to the dishonest concealment of material facts. I refer the honourable senator to clause 1 2 1 of the Bill. 
I thank the calm and judicial senator for reminding me of the very interesting case  Rex  v.  Kylsant  with which, of course, I am thoroughly familiar. I suggest to him, however, that he does not rely on the force of such legal precedents, powerful as they may be, but that instead he should read the article in the  Australian Financial Review  to which I have referred and in which he will find a report from the New South Wales Corporate Affairs Commission in which it states, despite anything that  Rex v. Kylsant  may say, that it considered itself inhibited in prosecuting this particular person by the absence of the specific power to which I have referred and which, of course, will be repaired by the enactment of the Federal Bill which is at present buried in the Senate but which, I hope, will soon emerge from its burial place. 
I am not aware of the specific matters of detail raised by the honourable senator but they will form part of the general investigation that I am having done of the general matter raised by the honourable senator last week. I hope to let him have a reply in the near future. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the first annual report of the National Training Council for the year ended 3 1 December 1974. 
-Mr Carmichael's membership or otherwise of the Communist Party of Australia was not a relevant factor which I had in mind when I made my remark. I do not know whether the Communist Party, in any of its various forms in this country, has a policy to bring down society, as  Senator Greenwood  says. I do know from conversations I have had at various gatherings with  Mr Carmichael  that he is an opponent of this Government's indexation policy and of the guidelines laid down for the preservation of that policy by the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
I believe that the timing of the present Caltex Oil (Aust) Pty Ltd dispute in Sydney and the efforts which I know  Mr Carmichael  has personally put into fanning that dispute can be interpreted only as a concerted effort on his part and by those who think in the same way as he does- be they members of the Communist Party or not- to torpedo the Government's wages policy. I take it from the indignation expressed by the honourable senator that he is firmly on the side of the Australian Government's indexation policy and that he hopes that  Mr Carmichael  will not be successful in his aims. 
-My Department has prepared for me some estimates of unemployment for the coming year, and I underline that they are only estimates. In particular, I think we have to be conscious of the fact that a record number of school leaversapproaching, it is estimated, a quarter of a million- will come on to the labour market by next January. The best estimate that the Department is able to give, and of course it is nothing in which we take any pleasure, is that actual unemployed, including school leavers, who register for unemployment, could approach 400 000 members of the labour force in 1976. Seasonally adjusted unemployment, however, is likely to remain at around the present level of 300 000, or 5 per cent, at that time, and thereafter should fall gradually towards 250 000 by next June. Actual unemployment also should have fallen to about that level, that is 250 000, by that time. 
I have seen the news item to which the honourable senator adverts. It is notorious that a far greater loss of time in industry is caused by accidents than by strikes. I would not altogether agree that employers in this country have not done a great deal to improve this position. Certainly some of the larger companies have put in a lot of time and effort to diminish the level of accidents in their works. For instance, I have personal knowledge that Broken Hill Pty Company Ltd has devoted a lot of attention to reducing accidents and it has had a considerable amount of success. However, as long as there are any accidents at all not enough is being done. I know it is a matter to which my Department has given a lot of attention. I hope that its efforts, together with those of employers, will continue to diminish the number of accidents occurring in industry. 
The Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs has been provided with the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(a) Department of Science and Consumer Affairs: 2 
b ) Statutory authorities: 
CSIRO-6 
Metric Conversion Board- 2 
(a) Department ofScience and Consumer Affairs: 1 Journalist, Grade A-salary $13,159  1 Journalist, Grade A- salary $12,862 (on  secondment to the Bureau of Meteorology from the Department of the Media) 
Statutory authorities 
CSIRO 
1 Senior Media Liaison Officer- Journalist, Grade A2-salary $16,537 2 Journalists, Grade A 1 -salaries of $15,397 each 3 Journalists, Grade A- two on salaries of $13,159 each and one on salary of $12,565 
Metric Conversion Board 
I Director of Public Relations- Journalist, Grade A2-salary $ 1 6,537 
I Journalist, Grade A- salary$12,565 
Both journalists are on secondment to the Metric Conversion Board from the Department of the Media. 
Unfortunately tonight  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has not applied his mind with great particularity to the details of the debate. I do not know whether he was in here when I spoke originally during the Committee stage. I believe he was. I set out the nature of the matters which were covered by these charges. I now tell him that they add up to an extra $ 13m per year. But he has asked me, insofar as I am able to follow his question, what is the precise effect of these charges on the Australian export trade. That is a matter which has not been examined in detail. I am unable to give him those precise details. I am able to tell him that the extra amount of expenses to be met from this charge by the Australian Stevedoring Industry is $ 13m. I am not pleased with that figure. I do not applaud it. I wish it were less. But these are the facts of industrial life.  His  colleagues in another place, and most of his colleagues here, while lamenting these additions to the charges of the Authority are prepared to vote for them.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is perfectly entitled to his moral indignation. He is perfectly entitled to expostulate. Of course, he is entitled to exert his ultimate right and vote against the Bill. But I have told him everything that I am able to tell him about the matter. 
With respect, I ask the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  to consult with  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. Better still, I ask him to listen closely to the debate and to tell me the exact terms of the request put to me by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. If the honourable senator was listening he would know that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's request was couched in the most vague terms. Let me have the question exactly. If it is in terms which I can answer I shall answer. But the terms in which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack has put his question are vague, imprecise and incapable of identification. If  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack can put the question in terms which enable me to answer it, I will give him an answer. 
I noticed that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, after showing such a profound interest in the details of the Bill, disappeared from the chamber. I had not noticed that he had returned. The figure he asks for is as follows: In 1975-76 the increase in the expenses of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority will amount to $13m. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (9.24)- I did not ask that question. I asked what quantitive cost would be involved in the Australian trade because of these increased charges. 
I take it  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack means quantitative cost. That is not ascertainable. 
-The Government, at this stage; hasno intentions in relation to the report of the working party.Ido not think that  Senator Greenwood  is entitled to take any comfort from the fact that a working party brings in recommendations which displease him, which do not express the policy of the Government and about which the Government has not yet formed any conclusions. 
-The answer to the last part of the honourable senator's question is no. The information on which I answered a.question yesterday became available to me yesterday. If the honourable senator were to read the Budget, and its accompanying papers carefully he would see that the. prognostications contained in my answer to the question yesterday are not necessarily inconsistent with the forecasts in the Budget. The Treasurer's speech on the Budget, in effect, predicted that there would be a gradual reduction in the unemployment figures over the first 6 months of next year, culminating in a figure of some 225 000 unemployed at the end of the current financial year. 
It does not take much of an examination of the figures to ascertain that implicit in that figure is a figure something like the one that I announced yesterday for unemployment in January because it was well known to the Treasurer and it was well known to anybody who gave any thought to these matters that there would be a record number of school leavers coming onto the labour market in January and February. The figure of 400 000 that I quoted yesterday, which I admitted was only an estimate, is not a figure that will last for any great length of time. After all, the figures relating to the unemployed go up temporarily every January. We hope that there will be a rapid absorption of large numbers of unemployed into the work force over the first few months of next year. I repeat that there was no contradiction- a minor disparity only- between the figures that I gave yesterday and the figures that are implicit in the Budget. 
In any event, if the country were to be favoured with a Fraser budget instead of a Hayden budget the unemployment figure of 400 000 almost certainly would be doubled because  Mr Fraser  has announced that he would propose to cut an extra $1 billion off Government expenditure. If honourable senators opposite were to do their sums they must understand the implications for unemployment in such a drastic cut. The Budget attempted to draw some sort of a balance between getting the economy back on the road and making some attack on inflation. It was a responsible effort to achieve both of those aims. The alternative proposed by the Opposition would produce a much worse result. So we see no need to recast the Budget. Far from the Budget being in tatters, we believe that time has proved that it is a responsible Budget and that time will prove that it is the best Budget possible in the present economic circumstances. 
I have seen reports which purport to claim that a committee of the ACTU has made a decision which will be put to the full meeting of the ACTU next week and which it is alleged amounts to a rejection of the Government's wage indexation scheme, but I do not accept that such a construction can be put on what I have seen reported in the Press about this matter. I do not claim to have seen the full text of the alleged resolution, but nothing that I have seen supports the proposition that the Executive of the ACTU is refusing to co-operate with the Government's wage indexation policy. The tax changes introduced by the Government in the Budget were very considerable and constituted a major social reform. The full implementation of the recommendations of the Mathews Committee may have been desirable but would have been, from the point of view of the management of the economy, totally irresponsible. In the circumstances, the major reform of the tax scales has been welcomed by the ACTU. The submission of its advocate in the national wage case only last Friday was quite unequivocal. At the hearing the advocate for the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Jolly,  stated: 
The trade union movement hence understands and accepts the decision of the Australian Government to radically reform the personal tax schedule rather than introduce tax indexation this year, both reforms being out of the question financially. We accept the lack of tax indexation this year after noting that  Mr Hayden  has referred to the fact that indexing of the new scale will thus be available as an option next year'. 

 Mr Jolly also stated: 
So far as this year is concerned, I mention that the new scale will actually reduce marginal tax rates of taxpayers on average weekly earnings by more than would be the case if the present scale were indexed. That is, what we propose will produce a better result than tax indexation so far as the ' marginal tax bite ' is concerned. 
I move: 
That the modifications made by the House of Representatives to the amendment requested by the Senate be agreed to. 
That the amendments made by the House of Representatives to clause 3 be agreed to. 
As honourable senators will recall, the former Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, introduced the Stevedoring Industry Charge Bill into the House of Representatives during the autumn sittings. The Bill proposed increases in the maximum rates of charge that could be prescribed in respect of waterside workers. For those who do not understand the meaning of the word 'charge', I might offer a brief word of explanation. Every registered employer of waterside workers has to submit a monthly return of hours worked by waterside workers employed by him. He pays a charge fixed by regulations under this Act which the Government is seeking to amend. The purpose of the charge is to pay various matters connected with waterside labour such as long service leave, pensions, idle time, attendance money, annual leave pay, sick pay, public holiday pay, etc. In other words, it is a sort of levy on the waterfront employers to pay for matters attendant on waterside labour. It also meets the expenditure incurred in training waterside workers and the administrative expenses of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. The Authority is in some financial straits at the moment, and it is for that reason that this Bill has some urgency. 
The actual rates of the charge are fixed by regulation within the limits imposed by the Act and are collected on the hours worked by waterside workers. The Bill which sought to increase the maximum rates of charge to $2.50, $3.50 and $2.50 for classes A, B and C waterside workers respectively was subjected to a number of amendments moved by the Opposition when it was in this place previously. Ultimately, after a quite extensive debate, only the amendment intended to place a cessation date of 1 July 1976 on the Act was successful in the Senate. That is, the Opposition in this place considered that the Act should be brought to an end by 1 July next and other arrangements made for the regulation of waterfront labour. That was the only amendment, amongst several that were moved, which actually commended itself to the Senate and was carried. The Bill was returned to the House of Representatives with the request that the House so amend the Bill. That amendment has now been agreed to by the House, with certain modifications. The House now has asked the Senate to consider further amendments to the Bill. 
With regard to the Senate's request for a cessation date of 1 July 1976, the Government did not agree philosophically with that proposition, but it has indicated in the House of Representatives that it is prepared to accept the amendment, with the modifications that I will refer to, in view of the urgent and pressing need by the Authority for the income which will result from the successful passage of this Bill. The modifications moved by the Government in the House were of a technical nature only and will ensure appropriate legal authority to collect after 1 July 1976 the charge in respect of work performed before the cessation date. In other words, there is no sleight of hand involved. There is no attempt to get around the intention of the amendment moved by the Opposition that there be a cessation date of 1 July 1976. But there are technical matters involved, and they are covered by the modifications to the amendment moved in this place which has been sent back to the Senate from the House of Representatives. These will be in accord with normal arrangements in this regard in the stevedoring industry when the charge moneys may not be accounted for until several weeks after the work has been performed. It is necessary for me only to mention that matter for it to be obvious that this would be the case in an industry like the stevedoring industry. 
The Government was granted leave by the House of Representatives to propose a number of amendments in respect of the maximum rates of charge provided for by the Bill. It proposed to increase the maximum charge for class A, class B and class C waterside workers to $4, $5 and $3 respectively. Those amendments were successful and are now before the Senate for its consideration. They were not contested in the other place, despite the artificial indignation that  Senator Wright  whipped himself into tonight. The Committee will recall that when this Bill was introduced in the autumn sittings it was indicated that the increases in the charge then proposed were in response to a loss of revenue to the Authority resulting from the low level of stevedoring activity and the rise in expediture following significant wage increases for waterside workers. 
In support of the recommendations to amend the maximum rates of charge, the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority considered the following factors: The further decrease in the level of stevedoring activity, with a consequent further decline in revenue and a parallel increase in so-called idle time payments; increased redundancy expenditure which will result ultimately in improved industry efficiency and long term savings; the need to protect the long service leave interests of waterside, workers. The long service leave fund is near exhaustion through its use to meet on-going expenses. This is a matter that makes it necessary to consider this Bill immediately. The Stevedoring Industry Authority has kept going by drawing on the long service leave fund, which is a rather extraordinary procedure, but it had to do it in order to keep in business. It has also considered the loss of revenue attributable to the fact that the Bill was not passed during the autumn sittings. The Authority had indicated that as a result of the continued low level of stevedoring activity and an increase in redundancy payments, the maxima previously set in the Bill will be inadequate for the purpose of meeting current expenses. 
The Government has received the very strongest representations from the industry and from the Stevedoring Industry Council, which is representative of all sides in the stevedoring industry, that urgent action be taken- it is not some socialist plot, it is something that has the agreement of the whole industry- to ensure a proper rate for the charge and the continuing financial stability of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. 
-The analogy is not immediately apparent. 
The analogy is not immediately apparent. 
This is a more precise request than the vague, almost inarticulate request that fell from  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I shall respond to it accordingly. I sought further and better particulars of the request that was directed to me. The request that was directed by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack was so inarticulate as not to be worthy of an answer. Now that  Senator Wright  has made his request more particular, I take it that the document from which he is quoting is the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority annual report of 1973-74. Is that so,  Senator Wright? 
-Do you want me to respond or do you not? 
All right. Let us try to clear up this matter. The figures which  Senator Wright  quoted appear on page 78. 
Well, it amounts to the same thing. If honourable senators look at page 78 - 
-Let us try to reach some agreement on this. The figure that  Senator Wright  quoted, as I understand it, was $20,203, 104. Is that correct? 
-Very well. They are the figures for 1973-74. The figures for 1974- 75 are not available, but I understand that they amounted to about $22m. The figures for 1975- 76, as I indicated, are roughly $35m. Do you want those exact figures. 
-You are genuinely interested? You want to know, do you? 
-The figures for 1975-76 are $35,268,400, comprised as follows: Attendance money, $1,140,000; idle time, $ 10,360,000; guaranteed wages, $780,000; retainer, $41,000; redundancy, $4,880,000; resettlement allowance, $60,000; section 7b refunds, $2,100,000; payment to aged and disabled waterside workers, $1,800,000; pension fund and capital administration, $4,700,000; amenities, services and so on, $3,980,000; long service leave, current, $3m; annual leave, $1,650,000; sick pay and payment in lieu, $337,000; holiday pay, $435,000; and compassionate leave, $5,000. That makes a total of $35,268,400. 
I indicated in my opening remarks that the Government is prepared to discuss with the shadow Minister of the Opposition dealing with these matters, with the employers, with the unions and with anybody connected with the waterfront, methods for improving the way in which affairs are conducted on the waterfront which, I freely concede, are not ideal and which call for a great deal of improvement. Of course, when one abstracts the rhetoric, the indignation and the histrionics that we have had from  Senator Wright,  I think we are cast back finally on this proposition: In this, as in so many matters to which it claims to have all the answers, the Opposition, if it has the nerve, will soon have the opportunity to introduce its panacea on the waterfront. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (9.40)- I do not intend to intrude any further during the consideration in the Committee stage of this Bill into the matter that is presently before the Committee. What I wish to point out to you,  Mr Chairman,  if I may be permitted to do so, is that we began the consideration of the Committee stage of this Bill with a total reluctance by the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  to divulge any information to the Committee and that over the last 40 minutes we have managed to force him to disgorge information that he did not have in his skull when he introduced with great forsenic ability, rhetorical flourishes and all the court manners with which he is so used - 
I raise a point of order,  Mr Chairman.  I think that that is a remark that should be withdrawn. On what basis can  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, if he had listened to my answer, say that my figures are false? I think that that is a totally unwarranted assertion and I believe that it should be withdrawn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Certainly,  Mr President.  I believe that the present Government has an infinitely better chance of keeping wages within reasonable confines than any alternative government that is on the horizon at the moment. 
-The information that emerged yesterday about the right to record telephone conversations was news to me, even though I concede that an item bearing on that matter does appear in the front of the telephone directory, which also was a discovery for me yesterday. I must confess that, even though the recording of telephone calls would appear on the face of it to be relatively harmless seeing that anybody using the telephone gets some warning in the form of a beep that his telephone conversation is being recorded, there are some disquieting features about it. For instance, there is the aspect adverted to by  Senator Mcintosh,  namely, that in the case of the police it does not necessarily rest within the competence of the person recording the conversation to cease recording it because such a decision could be within the authority of a higher officer. That is one aspect that gives me some uneasiness. Without overstating the matter, I think this is something that should be investigated more closely from the point of view of civil liberties. I certainly undertake to draw this aspect of the matter to the attention of the Attorney-General when he returns. 
-To suggest that there is any discrepancy between what I said yesterday and what the Prime Minister said is, in my view, a pettifogging, nitpicking objection. If there is any doubt in  Senator Greenwood's  mind, I point out that the Australian Government does not propose to take any action in respect of the report of the working party. It does not intend to introduce an ordinance in respect of criminal law in the Australian Capital Territory. 
-The Australian Government commissioned the report in an attempt to throw some light in dark places. In commissioning the report it did not commit itself to any action on the report. It is very heartening to find that the report has provoked debate and has stirred up  Senator Greenwood  so much. 
I suppose that when an assertion is made, such as the one I made yesterday that this was the best possible Budget in the circumstances, the truth or otherwise of such an assertion is to be judged against the background of what possible alternative has been suggested. An alternative has been suggested by the would-be leader of this country,  Mr Fraser,  and an examination of that suggestion reinforces what I said about our Budget being the best possible in the circumstances. Specifically on the question of a budgetary answer to the problem of unemployment,  Mr Fraser  's answer is to lop off government expenditure $1 billion more than is suggested in our Budget. How it can conceivably be suggested that that would provide a better answer to the question of unemployment than that attempted by this Government passes my comprehension. 
It must be clear, even to the dim resources of a  Senator Webster,  that the lopping-off of another $1 billion of government expenditure must have a further deflationary effect and must expand the numbers of the unemployed. I reiterate what I said yesterday: The option chosen by the Government was a middle course between extravagant deflation, which would produce the sort of unemployment figures so eagerly espoused by  Senator Carrick  in espousing the alternative of his Leader, and a responsible approach to inflation. The Government believes that time will prove that this is the best answer to our economic ills that is available at the present moment. 
-The Budget was carefully thought out, and it was not the Government's intention to resile from it after it had been brought down. Yes, we intend to rest upon the Budget. 
-Senator Marriott was good enough to give me some prior notice of his intention to ask this series of questions. The Attorney-General's Department has supplied me with certain information, which I will now give to the honourable senator. I think that I should make it clear at the outset that applications for assistance under section 170 of the Trade Practices Act are not matters for approval by the Australian Legal Aid Office. The section provides that assistance may be approved by the Attorney-General or an officer of the Australian Public Service authorised in writing by the Attorney-General. No such authority has been given by the Attorney-General. The matters in relation to which the Office may approve aid arise under Part V of the Act, which contains the consumer protection provisions, and include legal proceedings involving false and misleading advertisements, misleading or deceptive conduct and other consumer protection matters. 
The answers to the specific questions raised by the honourable senator are as follows: As to the first 2 questions in relation to section 1 70 of the Trade Practices Act, no applications have been made to the Attorney-General for financial assistance in relation to matters arising under that section in Tasmania. Advice has been given by the Australian Legal Aid Office to several hundred persons throughout the State in regard to matters arising under the consumer protection provisions of the Act. No separate statistical record has been kept of assistance granted or refused in respect of consumer protection matters. 
The answer to the third question is that the criteria for applications under section 170 of the Trade Practices Act are set out in that section. Briefly, the Attorney-General has to be satisfied that there is hardship and that in all the circumstances it is reasonable to approve assistance. When legal aid is sought from the Australian Legal Aid Office in a consumer protection action the criteria are the same as for any other action. The means and needs test is inability to afford the cost of legal representation in the particular case. The Office has guidelines for the application of this test which have been made available to all solicitors. I shall be pleased to arrange for a copy of the guidelines to be provided to the honourable senator. 
The answer to the fourth question is that advice and assistance from the Australian Legal Aid Office, subject to the means and needs test of the Office, were free until a system of contributions was introduced on 1 August 1975. Under the system applicants who could afford to contribute to the cost of their cases were asked to do so. Consequently, the Office is not advertising that it offers free legal aid. 
-The Prime Minister sent a letter on 14 June to all Ministers setting out the Government's attitude in respect of claims for wages or kindred matters made to departments under the general aegis of the Public Service Board, and also to statutory bodies and institutions which were not subject to the direction of the Public Service Board. In general it instructed all such Government instrumentalities that there should be a coordinated approach to demands or requests for alterations in the salary status or working conditions of the employees of such departments and statutory bodies. The 2 new commissions into which the former Post Office was broken up, the Australian Telecommunications Commission and the Australian Postal Commission, are in a novel and exceptional position vis-a-vis other statutory authorities in this country in that they enjoy a greater measure of independence, in fact almost total independence, as against the relationship of the ordinary statutory authority to the relevant Minister. In fact, it is only in exceptional cases and under a written direction from the Postmaster-General that any interference is possible in determinations as to wages made by either of these commissions. It is a fact that the Government would wish even these independent commissions to follow the general guidelines embraced in our philosophy of wage restraint. Speaking for myself, I was not pleased by what happened in relation to the salaries of the top executives and some of the middle executives of these commissions. This was the subject of some discussions, referred to by the PostmasterGeneral earlier this week, between himself and myself and the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board and the top officers of these new commissions. The matter is still the subject of some consideration. I cannot say when a final decision will be reached as a result of these discussions but I hope it will be very soon. 
Yes,  Mr President.  I have no inhibitions about answering the question. I should like to make it clear from the outset that the fact that  Mr Carmichael  may be a prominent official of the Communist Party is totally irrelevant to my attitude towards him or his actions. I am interested in  Mr Carmichael's  actions only insofar as they affect the wages policy espoused by this Government. It is for that reason that I have recently attacked  Mr Carmichael  and not because he is a communist. As far as I am concerned he is perfectly free to hold communist views. 
I am not concerned about his motivation; I am concerned with his conduct. I will not, at any stage, in espousing the policy for which I am now reasonably well known, lend myself to any Red-baiting in the process. I have met  Mr Carmichael  and I believe that within his lights he is a sincere man with whom I am in profound disagreement. But I hope that in espousing the policies which this Government has espoused we will not be led down the dangerous path of objecting to ideologies and philosophies which are not our own and will not interfere in- any way with the right of any citizen to hold opinions, no matter how unwelcome to our own. I should like to make it clear that I am fighting  Mr Carmichael  on the industrial front, that I will continue to do so so long as he attempts to torpedo the Government's wages policy, which I believe is what he is trying to do. But I will not lend myself to any attack on his or any other man's political philosophy. 
I hasten to add that I was not referring either directly or obliquely to any of the distinguished lawyers in this chamber. My attention has been drawn to the newspaper report and to the statement attributed to  Mr Dowd.  The statement is simply untrue. The policy of the Australian Legal Aid Office has been to blend youthful enthusiasm with long experience in the law. Of the 153 fully qualified lawyers of the Office 78 are under the age of 30 but only six of those are under the age of twenty-five. The other 75 lawyers in the Office are age 30 or over and these include 35 lawyers over 40 years of age. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) An application for payment of legal costs incurred by  Mr Brian  McClure has been the subject of a decision by the Attorney-General. The Attorney-General has not received an application for any such payment on behalf of  Mrs K.  Gordon. 
In matter B No. 36 of 1973 before the Australian Industrial Court in which Brian William McClure was the complainant and Keith Leo Mitchell (the former Secretary of the Hospital Employees Federation of Australia, Victoria, No. 1 Branch) was a respondent, the Attorney-General authorised financial assistance to Brian William McClure under section 14 1a of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The authorisation for payment of financial assistance to Brian William McClure was dated 26 November 1973. 
and (5) $23,676.70 was paid to Brian William McClure 's solicitors, being the amount assessed by the 

 Deputy Industrial Registrar in accordance with the authorisation dated 26 November 1973. No other amount has been paid or agreed to be paid to  Mr Brian  William McClure or  Mrs K.  Gordon in relation to matter B No. 36 of 1973. 
I will refer the honourable senator's question to my esteemed colleague,  Mr Cameron,  the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs, and let the honourable senator have an early reply. 
I do not wear as many hats this week as I did last week but I will undertake to answer the honourable senator's question. The last part of it I should describe as purely fatuous. The suggestion that the Government had embarked on a deliberate policy of wrecking small business 1 do not think requires any answer. The answer, if he wants one, is no. If he seeks to make the point that business in Australia is in a state of recession, I have conceded that many times before. I suggest to  Senator Greenwood  that instead of regurgitating the ills of the country, he or his Leader might come up with a few suggestions for their alleviation. 
I was present at a gathering at which the Prime Minister said something to the effect of what has been stated by the honourable senator, but it was my understanding that he was referring more to the past than to the present. I certainly do not have any information on the matter to which the Prime Minister adverted. 
Conflicting statements have been made by oil authorities as to the exact amount of reserves held at the present time. Of course, the future of the supply of fuel is dependent on a lot of at present unpredictable factors. I think that if the honourable senator had been following the Press reasonably closely he will know that the Government is taking a close and abiding interest in this contest. He may rest assured that I am following the matter hour by hour and getting reports on the situation. Certain meetings are taking place today in relation to the lifting of certain bans. I understand from the information I have had already that the bans will be lifted and that negotiations will then proceed under the aegis of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The matter is at such a delicate stage that I would suggest to honourable senators on the other side of the chamber that if they are interested in the actuality of industrial peace rather than in attempting to score some political points out of this situation, they will agree that the less said about the matter at the present time, the more likely there is to be a happy result. 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question. 1 am not aware that manufacturers of television sets have been withholding spare parts for monochrome receivers so as to encourage people to purchase colour sets. Existing monochrome sets are predominantly of local manufacture. In view ofthe wide range of imported as well as local colour sets that is available to prospective buyers, the colour set sales of any local manufacturer would be likely to suffer if consumers consistently found it difficult to obtain replacement parts for that manufacturer's monochrome sets. The deliberate creation of shortages of replacement parts for monochrome sets would therefore not seem to be in the best interest of any local manufacturer. 
For much of 1974, there was a world wide shortage of electronic components, and this could have contributed to difficulties in obtaining replacement parts for monochrome sets. The shortage has eased and components are now more readily available. 
Recent months have seen an upsurge in imports of monochrome sets as a result of the tariff reduction in November 1973. Some of these imports may have been brought in by importers without the service facilities provided by established suppliers. A similar situation may occur in relation to colour sets. There have already been reports of colour sets being imported without the approval ofthe local representative of the overseas manufacturer and which may therefore not have the benefit of adequate service facilities. Prospective buyers of television sets should therefore consider the likely adequacy of service facilities as well as the initial purchase price. As has been pointed out by the Government in the 'Australian Buyers' Guide' one way of minimising longterm service problems with television receivers is to buy from a company which has a reputation for maintaining spare parts and for providing service. 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry has. provided the following answers: 
General Motors-Holden's Sales Pty Ltd has advised that immediately after the reduction in sales tax from 2714 per cent to 15 per cent effective from 29 January 1975, the recommended retail price of Holden Kingswood vehicles, including sales tax, was. $3,762.95 (sedan) and $4,007.60 (station wagon). 
and (3) The company has advised that price increases for Holden Kingswood vehicles between 29 January and 1 May 1975 were as follows: 
The Mnister for Manufacturing Industry has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
1 ) Five journalists are employed- all in the Department. 

Journalist Grade A2, Director Public Relations, Canberra$ 16,537 
Journalist Grade Al, Assistant to Director Public Relations Canberra- $ 15,397 
Journalist Grade Al, Editor Publications, Canberra$ 15.397 
Journalist Grade A 1 , Public Relations Officer. Victorian Region-$ 15,397 
Journalist Grade A. Assistant to Editor Publications, Canberra-$I3,159 
The AttorneyGeneral has furnished the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
1 ) There are three journalists employed in the AttorneyGeneral 's Department; none are employed in commissions and statutory authorities under the Attorney-General's control. 
The officers concerned occupy positions created under the provisions of the Public Service Act designated as indicated with salaries as shown: 
Director of Public Relations- $ 1 6,537. Journalist, Grade A 1 -$ 1 5,397. Journalist Grade B-$ 11,169. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) There are no journalists employed in the Department of Labor and Immigration or in commissions and statutory authorities under my control. However there is one journalist outposted from the Department of the Media working in the Immigration Group of the Department. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (b) Statistics as to approvals for training under the NEAT system are prepared on a quarterly basis. The following numbers of persons have been approved for training since NEAT began on 1 October, 1974. 
The Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is one report relating to consumer standards which has not been publicly released. The report, prepared by the Australian Mineral Development Laboratories, covers an evaluation of characteristics of hard floor coverings for use in the development of Australian consumer standards. 
The report has been made available to the Standards Association of Australia. An article, based on information of interest to the consumer contained in the report, is under consideration for inclusion in an issue of the consumer magazine which is to be published by the Government shortly. Full details of the report will then be made available to interested parties. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The records of my department reveal that in the years 1970, 1971 and 1973 a total of 53 requests were lodged in Australia by  Mr Jones,  the Regional Manager of the United States firm Jack Russell Company Inc. for business visitor visas for Australia to be issued overseas to persons associated with the firm. 
A range of nationalities was involved and visa applications would have been processed at several points overseas. 
There is no record of any requests by  Mr Jones  in 1 972 or since 1973. 
The procedures associated with applications for business visitor visas are such that direct applications by individuals can be accepted by overseas posts and dealt with without reference to Australia. There would be no record of any such cases in Australia and no readily available record in overseas posts. 
Several occupations were stated in connection with the 53 visit requests of which my department has a record. These related in the main, to publicity, advertising, and sales promotion. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Prime Minister has indicated elsewhere that subject to their giving an undertaking along the lines mentioned a few Vietnamese associated with the former regime who sought refuge in Australia were approved for entry. 
Yes, I have seen the news item to which the honourable senator refers. I must say that I was surprised that a gentleman like  Mr Street-  I mean that seriously- could so misrepresent the facts. I think it arises out of a misunderstanding of the functions of the Commonwealth Employment Service in the matter of school leavers. My Department is not discouraging school leavers from looking for jobs. The Commonwealth Employment Service has a duty to advise its clients regarding their possible entitlement to social security benefits. This is particularly important in the case of school leavers who have had no previous experience with the labour market and are often unaware of their entitlements. The Commonwealth Employment Service operates a youth employment program which includes both group and individual counselling of young people in schools. I am pleased to say that  Mr Street  has been able to confirm that the officers of my Department are doing their job of advising young people properly. I would be disturbed if this were not so. 
What I should emphasise is that advice regarding unemployment benefits forms part of a package of advice which includes encouragement in seeking employment. The Commonwealth Employment Service youth employment officers give advice to school leavers on the avenues through which they may obtain employment, on the best method of application and the like. The program culminates in active assistance to school leavers by referral to prospective employers. The Commonwealth Employment Service is, at the moment, undertaking a national campaign seeking from employers vacancies suitable for school leavers. 
In passing, I must comment on the inference of  Mr Street  that if school leavers are advised of their entitlement to unemployment benefit, they will choose not to work. I think that is a gratuitous reflection on the attitudes on most young Australians. By and large school leavers are not interested in unemployment benefit. What they want is satisfying employment and both the Government and the community must do everything possible to encourage and assist them. 
I am an avid reader of the  Australian Financial Review  but it is not often I get to page 23. So I have not in fact seen the advertisement referred to by the honourable senator. As the question was asked of me in a representative capacity, I ask the honourable senator to bear with me. I will take it to the Minister and let the honourable senator have an early reply. 
I have not read the news item referred to by the honourable senator but if he seeks to make the point that there are depressed conditions in the building industry, as I have said in response to similar questions he will have no contest with me. I freely acknowledge, and the Government freely acknowledges, that things are far from what they should be. We would like them to be better. We hope that the measures we are taking will cause an upturn in the near future and, as I say whenever a question such as this is addressed to me, I am also open to offers from the Opposition of information on how to help. 
I find it somewhat curious that the Opposition is now showing such a tender regard for the Regional Employment Development scheme. I would remind the honourable senator that a couple of Liberal State governments have challenged the legality of the RED scheme in the High Court. It was a scheme that was subject to continuing criticism from the other side of politics while it was in full flight. Yes, it is a fact that a great number of the RED scheme projects for which approval had been given have been cancelled. This is part of the general pruning of the deficit which the Government sought to achieve in framing its Budget. There is a curious lack of coherence in the criticism of our Budget that we receive from the Opposition. For instance, we are accused constantly by  Mr Fraser  of keeping the deficit too high. I assume from the question asked by  Senator Jessop  and from various other questions that have been directed to the curtailment of the RED scheme that what the Opposition really wants us to do is to increase the deficit. I wish that they would make up their minds and let the people of Australia know just what sort of a budget they would have to expect from a government composed of the present Opposition. 
Although such a matter would normally fall within the jurisdiction of my portfolio, the Prime Minister has taken decisions about South Vietnamese students under his wing. 

If there is a misunderstanding between  Senator Carrick  and myself about this matter, I should like to clear it up now. Decisions about the fate of South 
Vietnamese students are taken primarily by the Prime Minister. I am as anxious as  Senator Carrick  that there should be some finalisation about their position, and 1 will urge the Prime Minister to reach a decision in the near future. 
Representing the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs: 
I am advised that the answers to the questions are: 
1 ) and (2 ) Other submissions have been made as follows: The Mayor of the City of Rockhampton to the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs- 27 July 1975. 
The  President  of the Central Coast Graziers Association of Queensland to the Minister for Agriculture- 27 July 1975. 
The  Chairman  of the Rockhampton Regional Promotion Bureau to the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs- 1 9 September 1 975. 
In addition, other expressions of support have been received since the proposal was given considerable publicity following the acquisition of the site in Rockhampton and the publicrelease of the Environmental Impact Statement. 
The first occasion on which CSIRO approached the Australian Government was in October 1974. 
CSIRO commenced planning and the preparation of preliminary proposals in May 1 970. 
CSIRO's preliminary estimate of cost was between $1/2m to $1m in May 1970. 
In December 1972 the project was included in CSIRO's building programme proposals for possible construction in 1974-75 at an estimated cost of $ 1.3m. 
In February 1974 the Department of Housing and Construction estimated the cost of a modified proposal at $2. 6m. 
In October 1974 the Department of Housing and Construction 's revised estimate of cost was $3.4m. 
In July 1975 the Department of Housing and Construction's revised estimate of cost became $4m. 
Yes. 
On 14 November 1974 Cabinet considered a submission recommending the establishment of the laboratory. 
On 17 February 1975 Cabinet reconsidered the same submission. 
On 23 July 1975 Cabinet reconsidered the same submission. 
CSIRO first occupied the building in Quay Lane, Rockhampton, currently used for laboratory work, in 1959, and it has always been, to some extent, inadequate. Staff numbers have increased over the period since the building was occupied by CSIRO, also the type of work undertaken has changed. In particular, chemical research is now important, and the requirements for this cannot be provided despite the efforts made by CSIRO and the Department of Housing and Construction. The present accommodation is now considered to be most inadequate, sub-standard and unsafe. 
10) CSIRO's requirements have been clearly stated to the Department of Housing and Construction, which has prepared sketch plans suitable for presentation to the Parliamentary Public Works Committee. The site is acquired, and is presently under the control of CSIRO. If funds were available, the Queensland region of the Department of Housing and Construction could commence detailed designs. It is understood that the Department would require a documentation period of 10- 12 months before calling lenders. 
1 1 ) lt is not known when construction would commence. If the proposal was submitted to the Parliamentary Public Works Committee during the next 3-4 months, and the project was subsequently approved by Parliament before mid- 1976. then the Department of Housing and Construction could be expected to commit the project for commencement of construction late in the financial year 1976-77 or early in 1977-78. 
I shall convey the question to my colleague and let the honourable senator have an answer. 
-Obviously that is the sort of question to which I could not be expected to carry an answer in my head. I ask the honourable senator to put the question on notice. 
I am unable to answer the question, but I shall refer it to my colleague,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, and let the honourable senator have an early reply. 
I am not aware of the figures that have just been cited by the honourable senator, but I will convey his question to the Minister and let him have an early reply. 
I am not aware of the truth or otherwise of the allegation made by the honourable senator. I will have it investigated and let him have an early answer. 
-The appointment of a new head of ASIO is not to be taken as implying that the findings of  Mr Justice  Hope, following his investigation of that body, will be regarded by the Government as redundant or superfluous.  Mr Justice  Hope is one of the most distinguished lawyers in this country and, as anybody would know who has read any of his previous reports following inquiries in which he has participated, such as the inquiry into the national estate, the Government is entitled to expect from this distinguished lawyer reflections and findings on the nature of ASIO operations which are sure to be most helpful and which are designed to improve the quality of that organisation. May I say in passing that I know  Mr Justice  Woodward personally, that I have the highest regard for him and that I believe he will make an excellent ASIO chief. 
-To put the matter in perspective and to deny firmly the proposition that an increase in unemployment is something that occurs only when there is a Labor government, I would like to refer the honourable senator to - 
I ask the honourable senator to hear me. A question has been asked and I propose to give it a serious answer. In 1972 inthe United States of America the unemployment rate was 5.2 per cent. Today it is 8.6 per cent. In Canada in 1972 the unemployment rate was 6.8 per cent. It is now 7.2 per cent. In the United Kingdom it was 4.8 per cent and it is now 5.7 per cent. In West Germany it was 0.8 per cent and it is now 3.7 per cent. 
-An honourable senator interjects and says 'Socialist governments '. I am sure that both  Mr Nixon  and  Mr Ford  would be surprised to be called socialists. The honourable senator refers also to what has happened and to the statements by  Mr Whitlam  and others about unemployment falling in this country in the recent period. I cannot recall such statements having been made. But if we wish to analyse the figures that were released the other day, we find that there was a further rise of 3800 in the seasonally adjusted level of registered unemployment. I notice that no newspapers seem to have mentioned that there was an actual drop of 2135 in the raw figures. That seems to have been overlooked in the reports. However, let us accept a rise of 3800 in the seasonally adjusted level in the last month. This rise was considerably smaller than the increases recorded in July and August. Nevertheless, as Minister for Labor and Immigration I have not sought to conceal the realities and the seriousness of the employment situation. Indeed, in commenting on the crucial role of wage indexation in the Government's economic strategy, I have continually pointed out the fragile nature of the improvement which is in prospect for the Australian economy. 
I repeat what I have said in the past in answer to similar questions: I am thoroughly convinced that if what has been told to us of the alternative strategy of  Mr Fraser  in solving this problem were to get a chance to work in this country, we would be facing at least double the number of unemployed. If he makes a reduction of $1 billion in the deficit, which is what  Mr Fraser  said he would do- I do not know how he will do it and at the same time give all the concessions he claims he will give- this implies a massive increase in unemployment. So before the Opposition takes so much comfort out of the unemployment figures, let it look to the mote in its own eye. 
-Senator Marriott was good enough to let me know that he would be asking this question so I have undertaken a little bit of research in order to be able to give him a clear answer. Security checks are conducted on persons filling positions such as that to which  Ms Wilenski,  who is the person referred to, has been appointed. It is part of the normal employment process in the Public Service. So if she is an anarchist, I think we can assume she is a fairly harmless anarchist. The  Shorter Oxford English Dictionary  defines an anarchist as: 'One who admits of no ruling power; an advocate of anarchy; one who upsets settled order'. 
In the news item to which the honourable senator has drawn my attention,  Ms Wilenski  is quoted as admitting 'cautiously' to being an anarchist. If, in fact, she is a cautious anarchist, we could assume that rather than being one who admits of no ruling power, she is more likely to be one who upsets settled order. If this description fits her, I am sure she will be like a breath of fresh air in the Public Service. But, even if we accept the word in its most blood-thirsty connotation, there are those who say that the Public Service needs a bomb under it. I, of course, do not subscribe to such a view. 
-Senator Rae is more entitled to ask questions about the RED scheme than are some of his colleagues, seeing that there has been no challenge to the RED scheme from any of his fellow Liberals from the State of Tasmania, although there has been, of course, from Victoria and New South Wales. I thought that most of the sponsors of the RED scheme projects which were not going to be continued had already been notified to that effect. The position is that because of the budgetary situation, no new schemes are being approved. Some of the sponsors of schemes which had been approved prior to 30 June have been told that the approval has been withdrawn. Wherever schemes have been started and money has been spent on them, as far as possible it is intended to complete them. I will let the honourable senator have a full list of the various applications for all of the schemes in Tasmania and their fate. 
I understand that  Mr Justice  Hope has not yet reported to the Government. I have nothing official about whether or not his report will be published. I would think that this would be most unlikely. I remind the honourable senator that the practice adopted by previous governments in relation to questions about the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation was to refuse to give any information at all. However, I would think that because of the nature of a report such as this one it would be desirable that it should be kept confidential. 
I understand that what is envisaged is that there will be an amendment to the Act to which the honourable senator has referred but that at the present time if there were any authorisation of interception of telephones, that function for the time being would continue to be exercised by the Attorney-General who, I agree, at the present time and until the Act is amended is the only person so authorised. As to who is acting as the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation at the present time, I am not quite sure whether  Mr Barbour's  proposed successor,  Mr Justice  Woodward, has yet assumed office. If he has not, I assume that  Mr Barbour  is still continuing in his job. But I do not know. I will find out and let the honourable senator know. 
I was not aware of the incident to which the honourable senator refers but I will have it investigated immediately. If any remedial action is required I undertake that that action will be taken. 
I do not have at my fingertips the State by State breakdown of unemployed or anticipated unemployed, but I will have my Department investigate the matter and let the honourable senator have a detailed reply. 
I am unaware of the facts as stated by the honourable senator. But I have no doubt that what he says would be correct. I will make some inquiries from my colleagues and let him have a more detailed reply. 
I do know a  Dr Carmichael.  I do not know whether he is related to the other more well known Carmichael with whom I have had some trouble recently. I am genuinely taken unawares by this question. I must say that the threat to wage indexation is probably an indirect one, because one of the great problems in wage fixation in this country is that if a large increase is given to one section of unionists it tends to flow on to other sections of industry. This has a cumulative effect which is disastrous to the fight against inflation. The doctors seem to be a rather privileged group. When they award themselves a large increase there is no immediate flow on. They seem to reserve these benefits for themselves alone. However, it is undoubted that the task of persuading people on lower incomes to restrain their demands is made more difficult when they see the spectacle of a small privileged group such as the doctors constantly awarding themselves inordinate increases. 
I think I have detected some such innuendo in Opposition questions as that mentioned by the honourable senator. Of course, there is no basis for it. The fact is that since the fall of the Allende Government in September 1973 and until August of this year 3237 people have come to Australia from Chile. In contrast, during the time that the Allende Government was in power in Chile, from September 1970 to September 1973, the Opposition, then in Government, admitted 4343 people from Chile. That is about 34 per cent above the numbers we have admitted since we have been in office. The suggestion is- as I detect it in questions from the Opposition- that the present Australian Government has a relaxed policy towards Chile and that our predecessors did not. Of course, the figures do not support such an allegation. Many of the people who left Chile during the period when the Opposition was in Government did so to better their economic prospects or because they disliked the Allende Government. Today many who leave Chile do so for similar reasons. Of course there is an important difference. Those whose views are contrary to the present regime are either forced to leave or to endure persecution. 
Unlike the Leader of the Opposition, I prefer to reach my conclusions on evidence rather than on unsubstantiated reports in newspapers. I will make a judgment about the truth or falsehood of the statements attributed to  Mr Khemlani  when some such evidence is forthcoming. 

 - Mr 

Grassby was appointed Commissioner-designate under section 2 (3) of the Act. As the honourable senator will be aware, sections 1, 2 and 7 of the Racial Discrimination Act have already come into operation but the rest of the Act has not yet come into force. It is related to another matter which is part of the honourable senator's question, that is, the date of coming into force in Australia of the International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination. I understand that the Prime Minister intends to make an announcement about this matter on 24 October, United Nations Day, and although at present I enjoy the favour of the Prime Minister I would not like to put that standing at risk by pre-empting his announcement. The honourable senator will not have to wait very long for an answer. 
-What I had in mind in making the announcement to which  Senator Bessell  referred is that if the sponsors of Regional Employment Development scheme projects which had been approved and which later had to be cancelled because of budgetary considerations could show that they had incurred actual expense on the faith of such approvals, an application for reimbursement of such expense would be sympathetically regarded. 
I ask that that question be put on the notice paper. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable senator to the Prime Minister's reply to question No. 885 on 2 October 1975  (Hansard,  page 930). 
-The first 5 justices of the High Court of Australia were all former politicians. They were Chief Justice Griffith, Justices Barton, O'Connor, Isaacs and Higgins. All but  Mr Justice  Griffith were members of the first Federal Parliament. They decided cases on legislation which they had earlier voted on and on the Constitution which they had drafted and voted on. Justices Evatt, McTiernan, Chief Justice Latham, Chief Justice Barwick and Justice Murphy were also members of the Federal Parliament. They have sat on and decided cases on laws they helped to make in the Parliament. A former Liberal Party senator and Attorney-General,  Sir John  Spicer, who was responsible for drafting the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and setting up the Commonwealth Industrial Court was appointed by the Liberal Government of which he was a member as the Court's first Chief Judge in 1956 and has continued from then on to pass judgment on his own legislation. No one from any side of politics has ever objected to that situation. 
Of the present High Court, Chief Justice Barwick and Justice Murphy were AttorneysGeneral of Australia and Justice Mason was Solicitor-General of Australia. In those capacities, each of those 3 men necessarily gave advice to their governments on the interpretation and constitutionality of numerous laws and proposed laws. If they were not to sit on matters in which they had given relevant advice to the governments then in office, very little work would have been done in the High Court. The fact is that each of them and the other justices before them were appointed to the Court, acted for numerous persons and bodies and gave advice on aspects of the Constitution and the laws which are constantly coming before the High Court. 
I recall that many years ago- in 1922, as a matter of fact- 2 justices of the High Court, Chief Justice Knox and  Mr Justice  Starke, sat to determine the constitutionality issue in the actual case in which they had previously appeared as counsel. There are cases in England in which the same thing occurred. In the famous constitutional case of Marbury v. Madison, Chief Justice Marshall presided over the United States Supreme Court and ruled on the validity of events in which he had participated as Secretary of State 
It should be noted that in the case of which  Senator Greenwood  complains each of the 7 judges held that all the procedures in section 57 of the Constitution for passing the Senate Representation Bill at the Joint Sitting were observed. That is apparent from the order of the Court. It is absurd to suggest that Justice Murphy should not rule on whether, apart from the method of its passing, the Act was constitutional. In that respect, the case was no different from the one concerning the constitutionality of any one of the hundreds of Acts which were passed during the period of each of the former advisers to the government who now sit on the High Court. The outburst by  Senator Greenwood  is explained by his notorious paranoia in all matters concerning  Mr Justice  Murphy. 
-To adopt a currently fashionable term, it would be hard to imagine anything more reprehensible than the attack made by  Senator Greenwood  on  Mr 
Justice Murphy. It is especially reprehensible, coming from a lawyer and a former AttorneyGeneral. It has always been a convention, as I have understood it, that lawyers do not choose a privileged occasion to attack judges. It is certainly a cowardly act, seeing that  His  Honour is in no position to reply. I would think that it is also characterised by the sort of selectivity that I mentioned in that  Senator Greenwood  reserved his barbs for one judge but omitted mention of many others who could equally have been charged with a breach of duty or disgraceful conduct, as  Senator Greenwood  has said. I think that in addition to the way I categorised it earlier, which aroused the ire of  Sir Magnus  Cormack, I would say that this action and all such actions of  Senator Greenwood  are based primarily on jealousy of  Mr Justice  Murphy's great achievements as a legislator in this place. As to possible remedies,  Senator Greenwood  would know that his statement undoubtedly constitutes contempt of court, but I would be surprised if the judges of the High Court did not take the view that his remarks were beneath contempt. 
I am certainly enjoying a vintage example of pious selfrectitude from the Opposition today. I cannot say that I keep a note of my  ipsissima verba  every time I appear on the box, but I would not resile from the accusation that is uttered by the honourable senator, that I may have used the words 'all that the public needs to know'. 
I agree that I probably did say those words. Since I have said them I regret having said them because I did not intend the words in the way in which they were interpreted. If  Senator Sim  had more experience of appearing on television he would know that you do not always have the opportunity to utter the  mot juste;  that you sometimes do not choose your words as wisely as you would like. I welcome this opportunity of conceding that it was an unfortunate choice of words, and that I did not mean it in the way that it has been taken. I do not for one moment suggest that the public is not entitled to know everything about a matter about which some doubt may have been raised. 
I was not aware of the report to which the honourable senator has referred me but I will check its accuracy. Despite the prehistoric whistles which emerged from the other side of the chamber when this question was being asked, if it turns out to be true, 1 would regard it as an outrageous discrimination and would certainly refer it to the National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I submit that  Senator Greenwood  has sought in vain to distinguish the case of  Mr Justice  Murphy from that of other distinguished judges whom 1 cited in my reply to the question I was asked earlier and who saw no conflict, no breach of judicial duty, in having advised governments and then having sat as judges in interpreting cases based on Acts on which they had advised governments. In fact, I cited the case of Chief Judge Spicer of the Australian Industrial Court who played a leading role in framing the statute which set up that Court and who has constantly sat since 1956 interpreting disputes based on the Act of which he was more or less the founding father. The case which  Senator Greenwood  has cited of  Mr Justice  Murphy requesting the Chief Justice that he should not sit on one of the earlier cases that came before the High Court concerning the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill, I suggest, is very persuasive evidence of the seriousness with which  Mr Justice  Murphy approaches his duties and the etiquette of the Court. The fact that  Senator Greenwood  cites it is, I think, some refutation of the attitude which he has taken towards  Mr Justice  Murphy. As  Senator Greenwood  has chosen to refer to the case which I cited that of Chief Justice Knox and  Mr Justice  Starke, sitting in a case in which they had actually been counsel I think I should set at rest any doubts that the Senate might entertain as to what sort of precedent is established by this case. 
-Yes, and I should like to quote a section from the judgment of  Mr Justice  Starke. 
-If there is to be misrepresentation, let me have an opportunity to clear it up. It has been suggested by  Senator Greenwood  that it is outrageous for  Mr Justice  Murphy to sit on a court in which a matter is before that court concerning an Act on which he may have advised. The case to which I am about to refer was, one would think, according to the principles enunciated by  Senator Greenwood,  a much more grievous breach of legal etiquette in that 2 of the judges involved had actually participated in the litigation. The case is reported in Vol. 31,CommonwealthLaw Reports, page 42 1, and the passage I cite appears at page 456, where  Mr Justice  Starke stated: 
This case was heard before my brother Isaacs, who found certain facts, and reserved for the consideration of the Full Court the question, what judgment should be entered upon the facts so found? The Chief Justice- 
That was Chief Justice Knox-  and I, when at the Bar, had been counsel for opposite parties in this litigation, and would, in the ordinary course, have taken no part in the decision of this case. But during its discussion before the Full Court, some questions affecting the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth arose, and it was doubtful if a decision of the case could be arrived at unless those questions were determined. The Judiciary Act 1912 . . . and the amending Act of 1920  . . provide: 'A Full Court consisting of less than all the Justices shall not give a decision on a question affecting the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth, unless at least three Justices concur in the decision'. The Chief Justice and I thought that we could not, with due regard to our duty, decline the responsibility of adjudicating upon such questions if they actually called for decision, but we made it clear that we should take no further part in the case. 
That supports my proposition,  Senator Greenwood,  not yours. 
-The significant aspect of that passage is that the 2 judges involved did not consider that to participate in a debate on the constitutional aspect of the matter was in any way in breach of their duty. 
-But they adjudicated on the constitutional aspects, which is exactly what  Mr Justice  Murphy has been doing in this case, and I think that the tortuous casuistic attempts which  Senator Greenwood  has made to justify his original totally unjustified slur of  Mr Justice  Murphy simply will not hold water. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The range of urban development programs on which the Australian and Tasmanian Governments are cooperating include- 
The National Sewerage Program, aimed at overcoming existing backlogs in sewerage treatment and reticulation works, initially in Hobart and Launceston. 
The Land Commission program. An interim committee for this program in Tasmania has been formed and has met, and this is expected to lead to the formation of an urban land council in Tasmania in the near future. 
The Strategic Development Study, aimed at identifying Tasmania's future growth patterns and integrating development of the State on a regional basis. 
Tasman Bridge. The Australian Government is involved in the reconstruction and widening of the Tasman Bridge, in the planning of a second four-lane bridge across the Derwent, and in the upgrading of roads currently being used in place of the Tasman Bridge. 
All of these programs are being handled by means of existing Government machinery, in Tasmania and elsewhere (including the recently established Tasman Bridge Reconstruction Commission), and none of them involves the decentralisation of public servants away from Canberra to Tasmania. 
The honourable senator seems to have no ground for asserting that the last Liberal/Country Party Government planned an Australian Maritime College for Launceston. This location was not mentioned in answers which previous Ministers gave the present Prime Minister  (Hansard, 1  September 1970 page 904 and 16 September 1971, page 1516). Departmental documents of that period indicate that the proposed location was in Sydney. The Liberal/Country Party manifesto for the 1974 elections mentioned a merchant marine college but no location for it. 
The establishment and location of the Australian Maritime College was fixed following the report of a Royal Commission established by the Labor Government and from consequential consultations with the State Governments. 
In addition the Antarctic Division of the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs is being transferred from Melbourne to Hobart in accordance with the decision of the Labor Government. 
There are at present no specific plans for the relocation of public servants from Canberra to Tasmania. 
State Publications on the Arts (Question No. 833) 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator's attention to the answer provided by the Prime Minister to Parliamentary Question No. 885,  Hansard,  page 930, of 2 October 1975. 
Following the dismissal of  Mr Lang  in 1932, various interested parties including constitutional lawyers wrote letters to  Sir Philip  Game. Some of them were preserved by his widow, Lady Game, and have been published recently. Among them was a letter from the then  Mr Robert  Menzies, then a rising lawyer, in which he expressed his opinion about the events that had just transpired. One illuminating passage which I think might help honourable senators opposite in these highly charged times to make up their minds about the proper course of conduct reads as follows - 
I will table the document that is in my hand. It is not the entire letter. 

 Senator JAMES McCLELLANDEverything that I read will be tabled. 
I would have thought that honourable senators opposite in these troubled times would have been combing through the history books to get whatever guidance they could from the great men of the past as to how they should behave today.  Sir Robert  Menzies,  Mr Menzies  as he then was, wrote: 
Briefly, the newspaper demand that you should dismiss a Premier on the ground that there was some reason for believing that he no longer enjoyed the confidence of the electors always seemed to me to be based upon an absolute misconception of the constitutional position of a modern Governor. Under the Australian system of universal suffrage and triennial Parliaments, with a legally recognised and responsible Cabinet, it must, in my opinion, follow that so long as a Premier commands a majority in the Lower House and so long as he is guilty of no illegal conduct which would evoke the exercise of the Royal Prerogative, he must bc regarded as the competent and continuing adviser of the representative of the Crown. For a newspaper to urge a dissolution because in its opinion the Government has lost the confidence of the electorate is a mere impertinence. The constitutional authority of a Premier rests almost entirely upon his success at a general election, and upon his continued authority in the popularly elected House, and not upon irresponsible speculations as to whether he would have lost his majority if the Constitution had provided for annual and not triennial elections. Moreover, these are days (and now I speak as a politician) in which any Government may. in the stern discharge of its duty, be compelled to take steps which render it unpopular with the electorate. This, however, so far from being a good cause for its recall, may constitute its greatest claim to reputation, and one of the factors which strengthens the hand of a Government fresh from victory at the polls is that it may look forward to a period or office in which its policy may be dictated by convictions and not by the mere necessity for vote catching. 
I table the document. 
-As far as I know this is the case, but, of course, I would not presume to be an authority on this matter. I have not combed through all the files on this matter. I should think that it would be manifest to the public that the reason why certain events have occurred in the past couple of days is that the Prime Minister of this country, in accordance with the highest tradition of parliamentary democracy, insisted that a Minister who had misled the Parliament should pay the fullest penalty for such action. 
I think he said so. In answer to a question that was directed to him by the Leader of the Opposition yesterday  Mr Whitlam  made clear that he had been misled himself and that that was the reason why he had given a certain answer to the Parliament. So I say that it is quite clear that the attitude of this Government is that nothing which is relevant to any matter in dispute, such as the loan crisis, should be concealed from the public. 
Following the expansion of the manpower programs of the Department of Labor and the amalgamation of that Department with the former Department of Immigration, a reorganisation and expansion of the State offices were carried out. A number of new positions were created and a number of others were upgraded. The Department considered that it could not simply promote existing officers in its State regions into all the new positions without ensuring that they were in fact the best people available for the jobs. To do so would in any case have been a breach of the guidelines laid down by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on indexation because it would have provided to white collar workers large salary increases of a sort which were unavailable to other unionists. In explaining this decision to the staff, the Secretary of the Department,  Dr Wilenski,  said in a circular: 
I see it as essential that from time to time we test the market where there may be suitably qualified and experienced people in other Departments or outside the Service. Their recruitment can strengthen a Department by bringing fresh insights and perspectives. 
There has been considerable misrepresentation of this decision and one thing that I should like to make quite clear is that all appointments to the Department will be made in accordance with the procedures under the Public Service Act. Such appointments are the responsibility not of the Permanent Head but of the Public Service Board. In accordance with normal practice a representative of the Board sits on all interview committees and the Board is the final arbiter of whether anyone should be appointed from outside. One of the proposals put forward by the secretary of one of the most important unions involved, the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, is that the Association should be represented on the selection committees which will interview applicants for the advertised positions, and this suggestion is receiving serious consideration. 
I will not waste too much dme in dealing with the remarks of  Senator Webster  who preceded me in the debate because, as is his habit, he has treated us to assertion rather than evidence. He has constantly contradicted himself. Let me take a few side swipes at him before getting on to the gravamen of the debate. He made some play on the fact that there have been frequent changes in the Ministry of the Labor Government. I would remind him that when we last had a coalition of Liberal and Country parties changes were infinitely more frequent.  Mr Daly  was able to point out in a debate on the Appropriation Bill 1971 that in less than 4 years Australia had had 3 Prime Ministers, 4 Ministers for Defence, 5 Ministers for Foreign Affairs and 3 Treasurers. In fact, since March of that year, in a period of 6 months, they had had 2 Prime Ministers, and another one was about to come up. 
-Yes, I will do that. I will do precisely that. I would remind the honourable senator that a Liberal Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  misled the Parliament about the origins of the Vietnam war and produced letters which completely confounded him. An invitation to Australia to join the war turned out, when correspondence was produced, to be an offer from Australia to be. in it. I would remind  Senator Webster  also that the sanctimonious  Mr Lynch  who has played such a prominent role in recent times lied twice to the Parliament, once about the practice of bastardisation at Duntroon and another time about the chaining of a soldier named O'Neill in a gunpit in Vietnam. The important distinction, of course, is that the liars on  Senator Webster's  side did not see fit to resign but carried on as though nothing had happened. 
He also said that wherever Labor comes to power there is disaster in its trail. Evidently he forgot that the most prosperous countries in the world, according to the latest figures produced by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, are the Scandinavian countries which have had Labor administrations almost throughout living memory, and that in Germany, where there is another social democratic government, things are much more prosperous than in most of those countries of the world which have conservative governments. He forgot also that, bad and all as things are in Great Britain at the present time, the people of 
Britain, after a trial of a conservative government led by  Mr Heath  who was supposed to have the solution to all of the problems which  Mr Wilson  had not been able to solve in his previous administration, decided to throw out  Mr Heath  and return to a Labor government, as will the people of this country if the Liberal-National Country Party people are stupid enough to take the measure which we understand they are about to take today and tear up the rule book. 
So much for  Senator Webster.  Let me return to the subject matter of this debate. I submit that on the face of it there is some mystery surrounding this debate. This Bill has been before the Senate since 2 September. As  Senator McAuliffe  stated on an earlier occasion when the Bill was being debated, the remarkable thing is that it is being debated at all, for it is a routine, machinery Bill to secure authority to borrow sums of money for financing the defence expenditure which will be charged to the Loan Fund during 1975-76. As previous speakers have pointed out, Liberal governments introduced similar Bills in 1968, 1970, 1971 and 1972. 
There has been an interesting progression of speakers from the other side of the chamber on this Bill which really did not rate more than about half an hour's debate anyway. We started off with the general,  Senator Cotton.  We came down the line to the colonel,  Senator Carrick,  and we then had the subaltern,  Senator Young.  Today we came down a little bit further to the sergeant,  Senator Baume,  and we just heard from the lance-corporal,  Senator Webster.  The quality of the debate has varied greatly but there has been one constant theme, and that is that there is something sinister, perhaps even something reprehensible, about this routine Bill. However, in the past couple of days the mystery attached to this debate has been unravelled. It was all part of the carefully orchestrated presentation of reprehensible circumstances. Either the honourable senators who have taken part in this debate did not know about the Khemlani plot or they did not know whether it would come off. Now that they consider that they have their reprenhensible circumstance in the disclosures by  Mr Khemlani  in the last couple of days, they have decided, as has been adumbrated so incautiously by  Senator Webster,  that they will tear up the rule book. So this debate in which we are now engaged has become academic. The Loan Bill no longer has to supply the reprehensible circumstance which  Senator Cotton, Senator Carrick  and other lesser speakers have attempted to impute to it. They now believe that they have in what  Mr Khemlani  has said in recent days all that they need to provide the pretext for throwing this Government out of office. 
-That would be an interesting thing to explore, too. I suggest that the sooner we wind up this hollow farce the better. Let us pull the preliminary boys out of the ring and get on with the main event, which is the rejection of the Appropriation Bills. I assume that that will happen sometime later in the day. But first of all I would like some opportunity to mop up the ring which is littered with falsities, half-truths, gross exaggerations, preAdam Smith economists- especially from that great pontificator  Senator Carrick-  and wild rhetoric anticipatory of the hustings which they can hardly wait to mount. The most absurd claim and the most absurd expression of that claim which came from  Senator Baume  was that ours is an irresponsible Budget, especially in its deficit aspect and that these presumptive rulers of this country have something better to offer. 
What we have heard, of course, is merely a rehash of what was said by  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Lynch  in other places.  Mr Lynch,  that poor man's Milton Friedman, has been engaging in an exercise of looking at the monthly deficit, multiplying that figure by 12 and concluding from that what the Budget deficit will be. So he comes up with different figures in different months. For instance, 12 times the July deficit comes to an annual deficit of $9m. If he multiplies the next month's deficit he gets $6m. He completely ignores seasonal, fiscal and monetary changes. Of course, this is the sort of exercise we have also had from his imitators in this place. 

 -If Senator Webster, that giant of economists, can tell us, when his government comes to power, at any moment in the fiscal year within $300m, $400m or $500m what the deficit will be- of course he will have a deficit as I will demonstrate- he will be a very surprising figure as far as I am concerned. If he knew anything at all about this problem he would know that no responsible politician or economist would presume to say at this stage of the fiscal year exactly what the deficit will be. It is subject to all sorts of fluctuations.  Senator Webster  will find when he gets out of the realm of promises into the harsh world of reality that he will be subject to the sorts of strictures which he and  Senator Baume,  in their economic ignorance, have been uttering today. 
Among the most absurd statements which have come from the Opposition is the statement that our deficit will not be $2, 800m but $3, 500m- I concede that to be a possibilitybecause, the Opposition says, of the success which we are having in wage restraint. Is that bad? Is the Opposition suggesting that we would be better off with a $2,800m deficit and wages soaring by something like 30 per cent instead of having a $3,500m deficit and wages growing at half the rate at which they grew last year? That is the picture which is emerging. When honourable senators opposite get their hands on the power for which they are so greedy we will be very interested to see what sort of wages policy they have. I have had a look through the pompous vacuous document which purports to be the industrial policy of the Opposition. I have conducted a debate before large audiences with its putative Minister for Labor and Immigration, the man who will take my place,  Mr Street.  I have waited in vain for some enunciation from the Opposition as to how it hopes to cope with the wages explosion which I and the Government concede was a disaster in 1974. I have come away with the conclusion, especially after listening to  Mr Fraser  's prognostications for his Budget, that the Opposition has a very simple answer to inflation. These are the people who are self-righteous about unemployment. 
They are embracing the old-fashioned, discredited proposition of the short, sharp shock. What they have in mind and what is implicit in  Mr Fraser's  Budget proposals is to reduce public expenditure by a further $ 1 billion, or 5 per cent and that this will vastly increase unemployment very rapidly. They hope that this will be the discipline which will enable them to bring down inflation. In other words, they do not bother to tell us that in countries whose inflation rates are so admired by the Opposition, the unemployment rates are far greater than that which is tolerable in this country. Obviously this is to be the strategy of the government which aspires to take our place. Honourable senators opposite plan to discipline the work force by massive unemployment. 
If honourable senators look a little further into this document to which I have referred and which is the Opposition's industrial policy, they will find that the Opposition avoids the word penalties'. Evidently honourable senators opposite do this on the basis of the old Japanese proverb that the soft word does not scratch the tongue. Instead they talk about consequences. If workers go on strike or if unions misbehave themselves they will be visited with consequences.  Mr Fraser,  when pressed to define consequences shortly after the appearance of this flaccid document, reverted to the old, tired remedies of fines, gaolings and de-registration. I ask honourable senators to contemplate for a moment de-registration. Can anything be sillier or more discredited than that way of disciplining unionists? They disobey and defy the system so the Opposition would put them outside the system. Then they would be unreachable like the builders labourers at present in Melbourne. There is a long, drawn-out industrial upheaval in the building industry in Melbourne. Other unions can be brought before industrial tribunals but the builders labourers are not amenable to be called before any tribunals because some smart employer got them de-registered during some dispute. 

 Mr Fraser and  Mr Street  have learnt nothing from the days when they imposed fines on unions, gaoled O'Shea and thought that all one had to use in order to have industrial peace was some sort of a bludgeon. I think they will find differently. As I said in the debate which I had with  Mr Street  recently, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  gave me this job, which I believe is one of the most arduous jobs in the country, on my birthday. I predict that if this portfolio ever falls into  Mr Street's  lap he will think that all his birthdays have come at once. I cannot see how there will be any capacity in the government, which aims to succeed this Government, to solve the most urgent, pressing and difficult task of a modern government, which is to persuade the work force- I use the word 'persuade' because there is no other way in a democratic countrythat it is not in its interests to think that wage increases of any proportions at all, regardless of consequences, are anything but counterproductive to them because the increases fuel the forces of inflation which in turn lead to greater unemployment. They must be persuaded to accept reasonable increases in wages which keep pace with rises in the cost of living. In the interests of national health they must accept some sort of reasonable approach to wage increases. 
I have listened in vain to the spokesmen for the Opposition to hear about their approach to this problem. I can only conclude that on this matter of the most important task confronting a government in a modern industrial society spokesmen for the Opposition have given no thought to this question, that they are bankrupt of ideas and that they will revert to the old, discredited methods which will merely aggravate industrial relations. In short, they have nothing as responsible as we have to offer. They have no wages policies and nothing to offer unions except penalties, which I say they call consequences, and more unemployment as their prime disciplinary weapon. I suggest that they should on the eve of resorting to this bushranger grab for power- which I understand is to be announced by the would-be Prime Minister at any moment- pause to contemplate the consequences of what they are about to do. 
I suggest to honourable senators opposite that as a result of what they have in mind the civilised political contest, which is the only basis of the preservation of democratic government based on a reasonable consensus, will disappear and that the rules of parliamentary democracy and the contest in the framework of parliamentary democracy will be taken out of the Parliament into the streets. Can we be surprised if the people who have some hopes of a reform and who see that a reforming government such as ours, no matter what mistakes it may have made- I freely concede that we have made mistakes- is not to be allowed to govern but is to be thrown out because there is an adventitious majority against it in the non-elected House, decide to abandon the parliamentary system and resort to direct action? This is something that I had hoped would not happen in this country. I had hoped that the people- even the conservatives who believe that it is outrageous that they have to cede power to a social democratic party, even for one termwould be long sighted enough to learn something from the lessons of history and that they would realise that to tear up the rule book and to deny the democratic processes is to invite disaster. 
They are polarising society in a way which can only lead to the sort of contest that has been endemic in Europe and in the Latin American countries and which I now fear will become the norm in Australia. I can think of nothing more conducive to fomenting communism and anarchy in this country than the action which the Opposition proposes to take today. The Opposition should bear in mind also that the pendulum swings and that it is very difficult in a modern industrial society- especially in a period of inflation such as has been bedevilling the world over the last few years- for any government to govern. There was a note of fear, I thought, in the otherwise purblind speech of  Senator Webster  as to the difficulties the Opposition parties will experience during the ensuing 2 years if it becomes the Government. They will be able to blame it all on us for a few months. 
Undoubtedly, they will enjoy a honeymoon and they will say: 'Yes, you were told by the previous Minister for Labor and Immigration that there would be 400 000 people out of work. We inherited that problem from them! That, of course, will be able to throw some sort of a smokescreen across the real situation when 600 000 people are out of work and then when 800 000 people are out of work. 
I do not know how many the Opposition parties will be able to accommodate and how long they hope to have that sort of short, sharp shock. I suggest to them that once launched it will be harder and harder to control. In those circumstances there will be other Senate elections, that is if the Opposition proposes to allow the Constitution to operate at all. There will be other adventitious majorities. There will be a Labor majority in this Senate and then, of course, I suppose the Opposition will be telling us that we should revert to the rules that it tore up and we should not run the country according to the Rafferty's rules which they created. I think the Opposition would be very naive to believe that once having created the precedent- in fact it has been created twice because if we remove the euphemisms that surrounded last year's events, there was, in effect, a refusal of Supply- it will be very difficult to persuade any party in this country which gets an adventitious majority in this Senate in the future not to use its power to throw it out of office. I think that will be lamentable. What are we going to have in this country? We will have an election every 6 months, 12 months or 1 8 months. How can any party plan and how can any government introduce long-term measures if it has to be constantly looking over its shoulder at the accidental majority in the Senate, especially if it becomes the norm to adopt the policies of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and search around the rubbish heap of discarded political figures in order to find some accidental figure who is venal enough to do whatever he is told to do in this place. 
While I am saying that, I would like to pay a tribute to  Senator Bunton  who, despite the hopes of  Mr Lewis  that he was putting a stooge into this place, has shown that he is a man of honour and a man of principle. But the precedent has been created that any government in a State of a different persuasion to the Government in Canberra can cast around and find some pathetic figure like  Senator Field,  inject him into this place, pull the strings and make him do whatever is required. Is that what we are going to have? Are we going to have a string of puppets in this place? Are we going to have accidental majorities which will be able to negate the will of the people, as expressed in the most recent election for the popular House? Is this to become the pattern of Australian politics? 
Let me deal in passing with the notion that this is in any way a democratic House compared with the one across the way. In this House 10 senators represent the 500 000 people of Tasmania and 10 senators represent the 5 million people of New South Wales. Can our opponents not see that the mere statement of those figures refutes the notion that this House should in any way in matters like this be on an equal footing with the House of Representatives which is elected by all the people? I ask honourable senators opposite to pause in their moment of euphoria and contemplate just what they will set in train. But in saying this, I would like to say that they must not interpret from anything that I have said- if I may adopt the words of their leader- anything which indicates any intention on our part to hand power to them on a plate. If honourable senators opposite take us on, we will be in there trading punches. Before this is over they will know that they have been in a brawl. 
I think this question should properly be directed, if they are still speaking, by  Senator Withers  to  Senator Hall.  I am invited to explore the state of  Senator Hall  's mind. I refuse the invitation. 
-The only thing that is extraordinary about that question is that the questioner should have the gall to use the word 'proper'. I will bring the question to the attention of the Attorney-General. 
On 30 September 1 975,  Senator Missen  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs the following question, without notice: 
Has the Minister received, or is he aware of, strong protests from eminent and responsible leaders of the 3 Victorian universities against the 66 per cent reduction in research funds provided in the Budget? ls this the most severe Budget cut affecting any group in the Australian community? Will it lead to widespread retrenchment of research projects and to the breakup of irreplaceable research teams? Does it not add to the criticism contained in the 1 974 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development examiners' study of the low level of government support in Australia for research in universities and other institutions? Does the Government propose to review this decision and, if so, to what extent? 
The Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Representations relating to Australian Research Grants Committee funds have been received from people in the 3 Victorian universities and from many other people in Australia. As a result of these representations the amount available for 1976 grants has been reconsidered and increased from $3.0m to $7.2m. This increase should avoid the consequences to which the honourable senator referred. 
I know of no similar case. Of course, the Governor's impartiality must be seriously called into question by his extraordinary outburst. However, the reprehensible and the extraordinary have become the norm for th; Queensland establishment. A Government which can send a pathetic puppet like  Senator Field  to Canberra in defiance of constitutional practice and tradition could be expected to have a Governor with no regard for constitutional propriety. 
I have replied on previous occasions to questions of the type which the honourable senator has just addressed to me. The fact is that when the Budget was framed by the Government a decision was made to phase out the Regional Employment Development scheme in the interests of financial responsibility. A decision was subsequently taken that no new Regional Employment Development schemes would be initiated other than those which had been approved before 30 June. Even some of those had to be discontinued. If any of the Regional Employment Development schemes had actually been started funds would be available for their completion but no approvals of new schemes have been granted since 30 June. Dealing specifically with Port Pirie, I will make some inquiries and let the honourable senator know the exact position. 
I will certainly give serious consideration to the suggestion of the honourable senator. But on reflection, I believe that an ambassador should have a sense of responsibility and he should also have a proper regard for the conventions. I think that  Mr Fraser  's recent actions disqualify him from holding any office, whether it be high or low. 

 - Senator Bonner asked the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral the following question, without notice: 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Has there been any change over the past month or so in the criteria for a grant of legal assistance from the Australian Legal Aid Office? In particular, has the means test been made more stringent or is it being applied more stringently? Have the areas of law or categories of clients within which or for which assistance is provided been redefined or has the Office recently been directed to keep within such areas or categories? Are the various offices operating on a restricted basis in any respect? Have there been delays in the Australian Legal Aid Office making payments due to solicitors to whom clients have been assigned by the Office? 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. Although the means and needs test of the Australian Legal Office, which is the inability of a citizen to afford the cost of legal representation, has not been changed, it has been sought to make the test more certain and uniform in its application by the various offices throughout Australia. To achieve this purpose, interim guidelines were issued on 1 August 1975. The Australian Legal Aid Office has circulated a paper to legal practitioners explaining the interim guidelines. 
b) The areas of law and categories of clients within which assistance is provided by the Office have not been redefined, nor has the Office been directed recently to keep within such areas of work. There has been no necessity for such a direction. 
The Offices are not operating on a restricted basis and there have been no unusual delays in the Office making payments due to solicitors to whom clients have been referred by the various Offices. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the report on the activities of the Department of Manufacturing Industry for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the final report of the Committee on Community Relations. 
Questions ( 1 ) to (4) are the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and have been referred to him for reply. 
Concerning questions (5) and (6), I am informed that- 
During the period January 1973 to June 1975 inclusive 1222 applications for citizenship were refused. Of this total 1 187 persons have been given full and complete reasons for the refusals. 
It has been the established policy of successive governments to provide reasons for the refusal of applications for citizenship only where applicants are unable to meet the residential or language requirements or are unable to show they have an adequate knowledge ofthe responsibilities and privileges of Australian citizenship. 
-Mr Anthony consistently gives bad advice to his partners in crime. It is about time they stopped listening to him. On the question of indexation, I am glad to see that  Mr Fraser  has not fallen for the crude, misinformed, reactionary line of  Mr Anthony;  neither have most of the large employer organisations in this country. In the last indexation case the Premiers of every State supported the Australian Government's case on indexation. So once again  Mr Anthony  is out of tune with the mood of the electorate. I suggest to honourable senators opposite that if they stop taking any notice of him they will keep out of trouble. Last night I spoke at a meeting of the Metal Trades Industry Association. I later spoke to most of its members and found unanimous support for indexation. If indexation is abandoned at this stage there is no doubt that we will get a wage explosion of the dimensions of 1974, with horrendous results for the inflation level and a consequent increase in unemployment. Once again all I can say is that I am relieved to find that in this instance at least  Mr Fraser  and the Liberals have not fallen for the stupidities of the Leader of the National Country Party. 
It is extraordinary that every question today that refers to the ill effects of the Opposition's conduct has been greeted by the Opposition with laughter. I am sure that the public at large will not be laughing at these problems. 
-Why does the Opposition not let us run our term as every other Government has been able to do? To meet the October commitment for the Regional Employment Development scheme the Government has $2. 65m. The actual commitment is $10m, leaving a shortfall of just under $8m. The deferral of the Appropriation Bills means that the jobs of more than 20 000 people currently employed under the RED scheme are in immediate jeopardy. Other workers- for example, workers in the building materials industry- who are reliant on the RED scheme also are in danger of becoming unemployed. I should also mention that about 14 500 people who are training under the National Employment and Training scheme might not receive their training allowances after the end of the month. Many of them are totally reliant on these allowances for maintaining their families. The same applies to subsidies under the National Apprenticeship scheme. Already my Department is finding that it has no funds available to meet claims from employers for assistance under the National Apprenticeship scheme. If honourable senators opposite find this funny I can assure them that the population does not. 
-One of the problems of a government that is kept in a state of permanent crisis is that desirable legislation gets postponed. When the Parliament settles down to behaving in a normal way we will see the emergence of some of this desirable legislation. 
In May of this year the Public Service Board approved a total of 43 positions, the number asked for by the Department of Labor and Immigration to speed up the processing of immigration work, including citizenship applications. Some 17 of these positions will be located in Sydney. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
From the inception of the Regional Employment Development Scheme on 10 September 1974, 817 projects had been approved or provisionally approved in Tasmania to receive financial assistance through provision of funds under the Scheme. A very considerable amount of time and effort would be needed to list all these projects and provide all the details sought in subsequent pans of the question for each project and I do not feel able to justify the time and cost of doing so especially in the present circumstances, although my staff have passed on to  Senator Rae  an invitation to examine the microfilm listing RED scheme projects kept in my office. 
The prime purpose of all projects approved under the Scheme is to create employment opportunities in areas of excessive unemployment whether due to general economic conditions or to a labor market problem in a particular area that can be alleviated by the provision of bridging employment. 
Approvals have generally been confined to projects on which work could be completed within 6 months. The average duration of projects approved has been approximately 14 weeks. 
With the possibility of a few exceptions, most projects should be completed on or before end-November 1 975. . 
to (6) The estimated total cost of all projects approved or provisionally approved in Tasmania was $ 16.6m, $ 14.3m to be funded by the Australian Government and the balance by the sponsors or other sources. 
Of the projects originally approved, approval was withdrawn from 140 on which work had not started or had not reached the stage when unemployed workers had been engaged. 
In the first instance from the week commencing 2 1 July 1975, when project sponsors were advised that the project was under review and that they should not proceed on the basis of Australian Government funds being available. Sponsors of projects for which approval was withdrawn were generally advised by letter in the period 26-30 September 1 975 ofthe outcome of the review. 
10) To ensure that funds will be available for projects on which work has been proceeding and, as far as possible, for commitments entered into by sponsors of those projects on which work will not proceed. 
1 1 ) to ( 13) The Ministers administering the Scheme decided on 10 September 1975, that the $135m provided in the Budget for the Scheme in 1975-76 should enable all projects already commenced, that is on which unemployed workers had been engaged, to be continued within their approved financial allocation, that projects not already commenced should proceed only in a small number of areas experiencing the most severe unemployment, above 10 per cent, and that all other projects previously approved should not be funded but that claims for any legitimate expenditure of moneys already incurred in relation to these projects would be considered sympathetically and speedily. The Ministers also decided that no further cost escalation would be funded on projects other than in the most exceptional circumstances. All project sponsors have been advised on the decisions in relation to their projects by my Department. 
14) to ( 17) See answer to ( 1 1) to ( 13). When claims have been reviewed from sponsors affected and considered, I shall advise the honourable member further. 
See answer to ( 1 1 ) to( 13). 
Sponsors of projects which will not now be funded under the RED Scheme have already been advised of their position and doubtless they are, where appropriate, discussing matters with those who have provided goods and services. 

 - Senator Bonner asked the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral the following question, without notice: 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Has there been any change over the past month or so in the criteria for a grant of legal assistance from the Australian Legal Aid Office? In particular, has the means test been made more stringent or is it being applied more stringently? Have the areas of law or categories of clients within which or for which assistance is provided been redefined or has the Office recently been directed to keep within such areas or categories? Are the various offices operating on a restricted basis in any respect? Have there been delays in the Australian Legal Aid Office making payments due to solicitors to whom clients have been assigned by the Office? 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. Although the means and needs test of the Australian Legal Aid Office, which is the inability of a citizen to afford the cost of legal representation, has not been changed, it has been sought to make the test more certain and uniform in its application by the various offices throughout Australia. To achieve this purpose, interim guidelines were issued on 1 August 1975. The Australian Legal Aid Office has circulated a paper to legal practitioners explaining the interim guidelines. 
The areas of law and categories of clients within which assistance is provided by the Office have not been redefined, nor has the Office been directed to keep within such areas of work. There has been no necessity for such a direction. 
The Offices are not operating on a restricted basis and there have been no unusual delays in the Office making payments due to solicitors to whom clients have been referred by the various Offices. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a progress report on the Children 's Commission dated September 1975. 
(New South Wales- Minister for Labor and Immigration) For the information of honourable senators I present the findings of a national shopping basket survey conducted on 16 and 17 October 1975. 
-The honourable senator has pointed up a blatant example of the Opposition's double standards. As a matter of fact, when the 1971 Budget was being debated- that was on 16 September- it was pointed out that in the 4 years preceding that date Australia had had 3 Prime Ministers, 4 Ministers for Defence, 5 Ministers for Foreign Affairs and 3 Treasurers. Even between March 1971 and September 1971- a period of 6 months- there had been 2 Prime Ministers and another one was coming up. Since March there had been 3 Ministers for Foreign Affairs, 3 Ministers for Defence, 3 Ministers for Health, 3 Ministers for Education and Science, 3 Attorneys-General, 2 Treasurers, 2 Ministers for Labour and National Service, 2 Ministers for Immigration, 2 Ministers for the Navy, 2 Ministers for Housing, 2 Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs and 2 Ministers for Supply. That made 3 1 changes or more than one a week. 
I cannot recall any offers by the then Government to face the people, to seek approval for this persistent game of musical chairs. 
I have seen some report to that effect. But I have seen so much in the Press lately that has been wildly inaccurate that I should like to get the figures from the Minister for Manufacturing Industry before commenting on the question. 1 shall do so and let the honourable senator have a detailed reply. 
I think that the Public Service Furlough Act has been debated in the House of Representatives and that the debate was adjourned as the Government did not consider it an appropriate time to improve the accrual conditions of the Act. The postponement of consideration of the Act as a whole has had the deleterious effect complained of by the honourable senator. I can assure him that it is my intention to recommend to the Cabinet in the very near future that the rest of the Act be proceeded with in order to cure the anomaly to which he has pointed. 
The Public Service Board has provided the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The honourable senator's attention is drawn to the press statement made by the Prime Minister on 24 July 1 973, in which he said that the introduction of flexible working hours in the Australian Public Service would have both social and efficiency advantages and was a further step in the formulation of an employment policy which would help people to reconcile domestic and family responsibilities with a career. All Australian Government departments are now experimenting with flexible working hours, or have proposals under consideration to introduce them. 
While some departments have confined trials to certain areas of their central offices, others are conducting trials throughout their central and state offices. In addition, several statutory authorities, for example, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation, the Industries Assistance Commission, the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, are experimenting with flexible hours arrangements. 
It is difficult to give an accurate answer because the extent of schemes is determined on the basis of operational need by the particular employing agency. At present as many as 70 000 Public Service Act staff may be eligible to participate in some form of flexible working hours scheme. The Board does not have any figures on the number of staff who may be involved in flexible working hours experiments in Australian Government instrumentalities. To obtain these figures it would be necessary to approach all Australian Government employing agencies. 
Proposals to introduce flexible working hours schemes originate from departments. Although some areas of the Australian Public Service have not yet introduced a trial scheme, this does not necessarily mean that they have decided not to adopt flexible working hours. The Board is not aware of any factors from existing trials which would inhibit the wider extension of existing trials or the introduction of new trials. It acknowledges, however, that areas where shift workers are employed or in team situations the capacity for individual employees to determine, within stated limits, their own workingtimes is severely restricted. 
The Department of Labor and Immigration conducted three surveys of organisations using varied working hours arrangements, in 1973 and 1974. In the survey taken in January and February 1974, of the 33 organisations contacted, five city councils in Victoria were operating nine day fortnight schemes. 
There are schemes of flexible working hours in the State Public Services of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. It is understood that the Queensland Government has approved the introduction of flexible working hours into the Queensland State Service. 
The honourable senator is referred to the report on the results of the Department of Labor and Immigration's latest survey taken in September 1974, which was published in the Personnel Practice Bulletin, Vol. 30, No. 4, December 1974. One of its conclusions was that there is an increasing number of organisations that have adopted flexible working hours schemes. 
-There is no money left to pay claims which are coming in for projects in progress. Project sponsors, such as local government authorities, are being told that such projects cannot continue unless they can be financed out of the sponsors' own funds. 
It is not easy to remember any achievements of  Mr Lynch,  but a couple of his performances do linger in the memory. He had barely got his commission - 
The Minister for Manufacturing Industry has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
) The Agreement between the Australian Government and Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australia Ltd provides that the Australian Government will reimburse the company in respect of certain costs incurred as a result of the company retaining in employment up to 468 employees at the company's Risdon Works for a period up to 6 months from 10 March 1975, pending the placement of these employees in alternative employment. An amount of $347,910 has so far been paid by the Australian Government to the company under the Agreement, and a further and final amount of $35,745 has been claimed by the company. This further claim is currently being examined by the Department of Manufacturing Industry. 
The Government did not state a specific amount of assistance to be available under the Agreement. An amount of $650,000 was appropriated in 1974-75 and a further amount of $180,000 is provided in the 1975-76 Appropriation Bill. The total amount paid to the company will be considerably less than was initially estimated. This is because of the considerable success achieved by the Department of Labor and Immigration in finding alternative work opponunities for the employees who otherwise would have been retrenched on 10 March 1975.I must acknowledge the considerable assistance and co-operation of the company and the unions concerned in carrying out the Agreement. 
The AttorneyGeneral has provided the following answer: 
1 ) The Committee of Inquiry into the Protection of Privacy last met on 20 November 1973. 
The membership of the Committee was specially constituted for the purposes of reporting on the measures that should be adopted to protect the individual privacy of persons affected by the then proposed Government Health Insurance Programme. It was not intended that the Committee as then constituted should undertake further inquiries. No decision has been taken on the reconstitution of the Committee for the purpose of further inquiries into matters affecting privacy. 
The Committee has not advised the Government on any Bills. The Committee's second interim report made recommendations to the Government on legislative and other means that should be adopted to protect the individual privacy of persons affected by the then proposed Government Health Insurance Programme. That report was tabled in Parliament on 7 March 1974 and the Health Insurance Bill (No. 2) 1975, presently before Parliament, is based on the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to have my second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
I was not aware of the matters adduced by the honourable senator and I therefore ask that he put the question on notice. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
to (5) The following full-time staff are currently responsible for servicing the National and State Committees on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation. There are no part-time staff. They are officers of the Australian Public Service within my Department and were selected for transfer or promotion to their present positions in accordance with the provision of the Public Service Act 1922-1975. 
I assume that honourable senators opposite are aware in minute detail of the recent movements of their client,  Mr Khemlani,  but for the benefit of honourable senators who may not be aware I would be pleased to give the full facts. Last Friday night - 
-Mr Lynch evidently thinks so. I have been awaiting eagerly to get a question on the Opposition's client. I am glad that at last I have the opportunity to answer one. On Friday night I received a telephone call from my Department and was informed that attorneys in New York had made an inquiry as to whether a visa would be available for a person named Khemlani to visit Australia. I, with the concurrence of the Prime Minister, said that a visa would be available and it was made clear to  Mr Khemlani  that a visa would be required. On previous occasions  Mr Khemlani  has come here without a visa and he has been told on the last two or three occasions that in future he would be required to produce a visa. He was told this the last time he visited here and of course it was made clear also to his attorneys in New York. 
-My knowledge does not go back that far,  Senator. After  all,  Mr Khemlani's  position has changed rapidly, has it not? He has become a darling of those who once said that he was a sleazy character and this has become clear, as witnessed by the events of yesterday because it was not a car of ours which met him at the airport. Despite this warning,  Mr Khemlani  arrived at Sydney airport yesterday without a visa. The Government did not want to stand in the way of any plans which the Opposition may have had for him. We did not want to whisk him out of the country. We wanted every opportunity to be given to the Opposition to see whether he carried anything in his bags which would help to get the Opposition off the hook, so I gave directions that he was to be given the usual transit facilities, that is, he could stay here for another 72 hours. He is obviously taking the fullest advantage of this courtesy which was extended to him by the Australian Government and is using his time to the best advantage. It remains to be seen whether there is any advantage to the Opposition in his stay. 
I welcome any questions directed to the role of the Government with relation to union demands and suggest that our record in this respect will stand up to anything that we could expect from a Minister for Labor from the other side of the House. We are not, of course, in any position to forbid the unions from suggesting that a 2.9 per cent increase or any other figure should be taken into account as the correct indexation figure in the hearing commencing before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission today, any more than we can forbid an employers federation from claiming that nothing should be passed on. The submission that will be put on behalf of the Australian Government at the present hearing is that the figure of 0.8 per cent, which was the figure for the CPI increase that was released recently by the Statistician, should be added by way of indexation. 
A week or so ago, on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  I attended a Serbian function. It was a function to celebrate the eighth centenary of the birth of St Sava, who is the patron saint of all the Serbs. It is becoming increasingly clear that  Senator Greenwood  is attempting to cast himself in the role of patron saint of all the Croats. I will deal separately with each of the propositions that he has advanced today, which are a tribute not so much to his devotion to the cause of the Croats as an example of his own obduracy. 
Firstly, let us deal with the case of Ivan Pavlovic, a naturalised Australian citizen of Croatian origin who wishes to obtain an Australian passport to travel to Yugoslavia. Let us dispose for all time of  Senator Greenwood's  extravagant proposition that this is a natural right of any Australian citizen which has been adhered to by all Australian governments. I need only remind him of the case of one Srecko Rover, who is perhaps the best known Croatian or man of Croatian origin in this country and who was treated in exactly the same way by  Senator Greenwood  's Government under the aegis of  Mr McMahon.  Srecko Rover, a naturalised Australian, would appear to have had all of the rights of  Mr Ivan  Pavlovic, but for reasons which it never saw fit to publicise the McMahon Government refused him an Australian passport. I will tell  Senator Greenwood  here and now that it is the present intention of the Government not to give a passport to  Mr Pavlovic  for good and sufficient reasons which cannot be discussed. If he wants a better hint than that, I am afraid he is asking this Government to undertake the exposure of matters which have to be kept secret by any Government. 
Further than that, for some curious reason  Senator Greenwood  does not seem to be able to accept the fact that there has been an alteration of the administrative arrangements in this country and that since March of this year the responsibility for the issuance of passports has rested not with my Department but with the Department of Foreign Affairs. I do not know why it has taken until 10 October for the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  to tell  Senator Greenwood  that  Mr Pavlovic  is not going to be given a passport. I know why he is not going to be given a passport. I think there is abundant reason why he should not be given a passport and I also think that there is abundant reason why  Senator Greenwood  should not be told why he is not going to be given a passport, just as there was abundant reason why the McMahon Government did not tell us or anybody else why Srecko Rover was refused a passport. It is characteristic of the system of double entry bookkeeping for which  Senator Greenwood  is famous that he sees no conflict here and exalts to an inalienable right a right that was not accepted or acknowledged by the last Liberal-Country Party Government. 
I think I can ignore the inanities of  Senator Webster.  Let us turn to the other example which has the patron saint of the Croats up in arms, that is, the case of Milan Sogorovic, a criminal who is at present serving a term in gaol in Western Australia not for a crime of a terrorist nature but for a purely ordinary criminal act. He is about to be released and he, of course, is anxious that he should not be sent back to Yugoslavia. I can give 

 Senator Greenwood a categorical assurance that any Australian citizen or any person of Croatian origin who is to be deported or who has rendered himself liable to deportation and who would be in genuine danger in Yugoslavia because of terrorist activities or terrorist associations will not be deported to Yugoslavia. No decision has been made to deport  Mr Sogorovic  to Yugoslavia. 
Surely  Senator Greenwood  can understand this difficulty: The word has gone around among the criminal element in the Croatian community that, if one is sent to gaol and one has rendered oneself liable to deportation under the Migration Act, the thing to do is to spread it about that one is a member of a Croatian terrorist organisation; that way one will not be deported to Yugoslavia. The task of determining whether a man will be in any peril for political reasons if he happens to be deported to Yugoslavia is a task of considerable administrative difficulty, but we certainly do not propose to be the victims of that sort of campaign. We do not propose to have people who are ordinary common criminals, who should be deported, who will be deported and who normally would be deported to Yugoslavia preserved from being returned to Yugoslavia merely by some phoney story that they are men of great principle, although they may be anarchists or terrorists, and that they will be in some peril if they are deported to Yugoslavia. This matter requires a lot of investigation.  Mr Sogorovic  's case is still undergoing investigation. If he would genuinely be in any peril by being deported to Yugoslavia and we are satisfied of that, he will not be deported to Yugoslavia; neither will any other Croatian in a similar position. 
I would not presume to diagnose the precise complaint from which the Opposition is suffering, but it must be obvious even to a casual observer in this place that the Opposition is certainly suffering from some acute malaise. 
I ask that the question be put on notice. 
I am aware that  Senator Carrick  has shown a continuing interest in this matter. I regret that I have not yet been able to supply him with a definitive answer to the questions he has raised. The matter is under active consideration by my Department and I will attempt to let him have a detailed answer next week. 
I have read the report to which the honourable senator refers and the passage which he has quoted, and I would agree that the attitude of trade unionists to migrants leaves a lot to be desired. Of course, this is true of most institutions in the country. I would imagine that the Australian Medical Association, for example, would hardly be a paragon of virtue in its attitude towards doctors from other countries. This in no way condones or justifies the shortcomings of the unions. I point out in this regard that this Government has set up a trade union training centre, something which our opponents talked about for years but never got around to. We have set up this trade union training centre. Unfortunately, in the conditions of Budget stringency which apply this year, we have not been able to devote as much money as we would have liked to the scheme. But that would be one of the aspects to which this training system would advert. So, in answer to the honourable senator's question, I would say that the trade unions, like the rest of the community, do not accord to migrants the treatment which they deserve. I hope that this Government will be able to do something to improve that position. 
It has been a matter of my own observation that, so far as safety notices are concerned, it is the practice of most companies involved in areas in which there are any industrial dangers to have safety notices printed in several languages. The proposition as to awards is more difficult. I should think that the cost of publishing awards in languages other than English would be prohibitive. However, I will take up the matter with my Department to see whether it is possible to do something along the lines suggested by the honourable senator. 
The longer that this constitutional crisis persists the deeper and more permanent will be the wounds that it inflicts on the fragile system of parliamentary democracy. I repeat what I have said and what other speakers on this side of the Senate have said throughout this crisis: The issue is not the economy; the issue is the survival of parliamentary democracy. No matter how  Senator Cotton  or the lawyers whom he quotes may try to twist the words of the Constitution there is no doubt that it was not contemplated that a government in a moment of unpopularity could be thrown out by an unrepresentative Senate. Let me repeat again that this Senate is an unrepresentative House compared with the House of Representatives. It is necessary to contemplate only one simple point, and that is that 10 senators come here from the State of Tasmania which has 400 000 inhabitants and 10 senators come here from the State of New South Wales which has 5 million inhabitants. So it is certainly stretching all of the known concepts of democracy to suggest that this is a House which is as representative of the will of the people as is the House of Representatives. 

 Senator Cotton said that people on this side of the Senate must be sad to witness what is going on. I confess to being sad; I am sad to see the deterioration in the conduct and level of debate from among others, figures such as  Senator Cotton  himself. I say with respect that  Senator Cotton  is a man whom I have always admired and in fact still admire. I do not want to give him the kiss of death, by saying that. But I say quite seriously that  Senator Cotton's  contribution to this debate gets- I have to say it- more and more unworthy of him as the debate proceeds. I understand that the gurus who were behind this move- the ones who tipped  Mr Fraser  over the edge of the abyss- were  Senator Carrick, Senator Cotton  and  Mr Ellicott.  Of course the mistaken advice which  Mr Fraser  received from these gurus was compounded by the advice which he got from the hill-billies of  Senator Webster's  Party. They, of course, are always intent on grabbing for power because they have never been able to resign themselves to the fact that their snouts were pulled out of the pig trough. They think it is about time that they were back there getting the handouts which they consider to be their just deserts. 

 Senator Cotton today, unfortunately, I was disappointed, seemed to think that he could reduce this matter to which the whole of Australia is paying attention to a contest between lawyers. With less than admirable selectivity he chose a couple of lawyers who happened to support his side. It was odd to hear an orthodox Liberal praising  Mr St  John. Nonetheless, he chose to do so this morning. He used extravagant language to suggest that what the Government is trying to do is to smash the power of the Senate. This reminds me of nothing more than a rapist accusing his victim of the crime. After all, we know where this matter was initiated. Why is it that money is not being supplied for essential services? Is it due to anything that this Government has done? I am afraid that if  Senator Cotton  and other honourable senators on the Opposition side have not got the message yet from the grass roots, they will soon get it. The public outside do not regard this as a matter of what one lawyer says about the constitutionality of the matter and what another lawyer says about the unconstitutionality of the matter. I suggest that  Senator Cotton  have a look at the gallup poll which is published in today's Bulletin. 
-The Opposition is in front. I suggest, though, that honourable senators opposite are going out backwards. They do not want to look just at the figures for today. They want to have a look at the movements of figures. That is the only significance which gallup polls have. If we accept this gallup poll- I take it that the Opposition accepts the validity of these gallup polls- it shows that from a high of 60 per cent in July the Opposition is now down to 50 per cent. In the same period the Government's popularity has risen from its low point of 33 per cent to 43 per cent. That is in a period of two or three months. What is the explanation for this? The economy has not improved in that time. Every day we hear from the Opposition that the economy is getting worse. Yet we get this significant movement. If we take the personal popularity of the 2 Leaders we note that  Mr Whitlam  's popularity has risen to a figure of 37 per cent and that  Mr Fraser's  has declined from a figure of 52 per cent on the weekends of 6 and 1 3 September to 34 per cent. 
I do not ask the Opposition to take my word for the proposition that what it is doing is unpopular with the electorate. These figures speak for themselves. In a period when there has been no real uplift in the economy, when, according to the Opposition, the economy has declined, its standing and its Leader's standing in the community has deteriorated to that extent. This should be a clear warning to the Opposition that if this situation which it has engineered is allowed to persist it will be only a matter of a few weeks before we are ahead on the polls. The net result of the Opposition's gambit will have been to have turned around the political situation in this country most dramatically. If this is what the Opposition is seeking to do, so be it. I suggest that the Opposition has been taken completely by surprise by the feelings which have been expressed by the Australian people about its unprecedented and immoral conduct. 
If we are to have a contest of lawyers, I point out that another lawyer cited by  Senator Cotton  was a certain  Mr Gruzman.  I can only assume that  Senator Cotton  thinks that the man one would hire to defend one on a murder charge is the man who is best qualified to construe the Constitution. As any lawyer will tell the honourable senator,  Mr Gruzman  is noted more as counsel for the financial desperado Alexander Barton than for any performance in the field of constitutional law. I have been similarly saddened at the progressive deterioration of another man for whom I have always had a great deal of respect, and that is  Mr Ellicott. Mr Ellicott  came into this Parliament with excellent credentials. He had been a leading barrister and a SolicitorGeneral of the Commonwealth and I had thought of him always as a man of temperate, moderate and sensible views. However, ever since this contest has blown up he has deteriorated not only as a parliamentarian but also as a lawyer. He took it upon himself to issue gratuitous advice to the Governor-General which was out of tune with anything I have read from any constitutional lawyer and which does not stand up to examination in the light of the sections of the Constitution which he was attempting to construe. 
He says in effect that if  Mr Whitlam  refuses to hold a double dissolution, the Governor-General should dismiss  Mr Whitlam  from office. This is turning the clock back to the times before we had representative and responsible government. This is an assertion of a power in the Crown which has long been ceded. If we are to turn this into a contest of lawyers, though I suggest that this is a most unreal way to approach it and if the Opposition persists in that approach it will lead to its ruin, then I suggest that we should look at the opinions of all lawyers.  Senator Greenwood  embarked on a smear of the professors who had written expressing their views a little earlier. He attempted to depict this as something which had been engineered by the Government. It was a false statement and one for which I suggest he has no evidence at all. If we are to look at the opinions of lawyers, why not look at what  Sir Richard  Eggleston had to say? Any lawyer in this House knows that  Sir Richard  Eggleston is easily the most distinguished lawyer, and I include  Sir Robert  Menzies, who has bought into this argument.  Sir Richard  Eggleston in a most closely reasoned statement which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  this week expressed the opinion that what has been done by this Senate in deferringthe Opposition does not like the word 'reject'these Bills is unconstitutional. 
I suggest that if we are to have the benefit of all the lawyers' lucubrations we should have a contribution from  Senator Wright  in his own right a little later rather than have him try to convert the Senate by interjection. So if  Senator Wright  will bear with me I will proceed with my argument and will look forward to hearing from him a little later.  Mr Ellicott  in his lust for power, in his desire to get off the back bench and get a guernsey as a Minister as soon as possible, has deteriorated even as a politician. We saw him in the ludicrous situation yesterday saying about the Khemlani papers in the middle of the day that they did not provide any ground for imputing that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had been involved in any misleading of the Senate or had taken any part in any attempted loan raisings since 20 May and then coming back to Canberra, being dressed down by his leader, eating his own words and, presumably without having seen any other documents, giving a totally contrary view of the situation. If there is any victim of this crisis it surely is  Mr Ellicott. His  reputation is in ruins and, I regret, that is something that does make me sad. I suggest that the sooner  Mr Ellicott  reverts to the previous high standards he set both as a lawyer and as a politician for which he won the respect of the people of this country the better it will be for his reputation, the better it will be for his Party and the better it will be for the country. 
Evidently, as far as I could gather from  Senator Cotton  today, the ground has changed since the last deferral of these Bills. On that occasion we heard a great deal about the scandal of the loans matter. That was the real  casus belli.  That was the ground that the Opposition had for saying that this was a disreputable and reprehensible Government. Honourable senators will recall the orchestration of the previous arrival of  Mr Khemlani.  Much was made at that time about the great disclosures that were to be expected from him. It was against that background that the Opposition took this extraordinary step. But today we did not hear much about  Mr Khemlani.  I think his name was mentioned once. Instead it was suggested that the new reprehensible conduct was that of  Mr Hayden  in allowing a briefing of  Mr Hawke  before the Budget was announced. 
-No, I do not. I think that that was a mistake. I think it was an honest mistake. If honourable senators study the comment in the newspapers around this country, which have not been notably kind to this Government during the period of this crisis, I think they will find that most of them have taken the same view. They upbraid  Mr Hayden  for what he has done and they disapprove of it, but they have the position in perspective. None of the newspapers- not even the most rabid newspaper- that I have read, including the  Sydney Morning Herald's  editorial this morning, has suggested that what  Mr Hayden  did was reprehensible enough to ground the conduct which the Senate is indulging in at the present time. 
An attempt has also been made to get a new reprehensible circumstance in the facts of the ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd deal, but try as it may the Opposition has not been able to get any mileage out of this matter. It makes one wonder why, if the Opposition really wants to get to the bottom of the matter, it does not apply to the Royal Commission which is sitting at present and offer what evidence, as against the vituperation, it has to offer to clear up this matter. It is being used shamelessly as an attempt to smear this Government and I predict that after a while it will turn out to be a fizzer, as the Khemlani matter has turned out to be a fizzer. If one is going to be sad, if one is going to use the word sad ', it is too obvious to need stressing that there is a great sadness in the ranks of the Opposition today at having fallen on its face over the Khemlani matter. There was a great fanfare and beating of drums at the end of last week when it was known that  Mr Khemlani  was to arrive with the goods. This was to be the clincher to prove that the Prime Minister has misled the Parliament, that he had been up to his ears in loan raisings since 20 May. In other words, the Opposition was going to pin him to the mast. 
Of course, so sure were we that nothing of the kind would eventuate that when I received a request from  Mr Khemlani  's attorneys in New York on Friday night to give him a visa to come here I had no hesitation in telling them that he could have a visa. He chose to arrive without one but the Government did not take any steps to throw him out. We have given the Opposition abundant time to call him. The legal experts of the Opposition have been closeted with him for hours and have examined the contents of the suitcases that he brought.  Mr Ellicott,  in his more open moment, was obliged to confess that he had come away empty-handed. What do we have left out of the great Khemlani scandal? The Leader of the Opposition in this place had been inviting 

 Mr Khemlani to appear before the Senate and had repeatedly said last week: 'We will offer him the facilities of the Senate. He will have every opportunity to tell the Senate what he has got'. What did we see from  Senator Withers  today? We saw a most despicable backdown. We saw that he was not proposing to call  Mr Khemlani.  All he has put down is a face-saving formula about a select committee, which he hinted at the same time is to be nothing more than a facesaving formula about which we will probably hear very little more. 
I suggest to the Opposition that it is not too late for it to turn back. I suggest that, among other things, it should read an excellent letter which appeared in this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald  from  Sir Norman  Cowper, for whom I would suggest that any man in New South Wales could not have anything but the greatest respect. He is not a socialist. He is not a radical. He was the best known and most respected lawyer in New South Wales for many years as the head of one of our leading firms of solicitors. He was a most active man. I should not use the word 'was' because fortunately he is still with us. He is a man who has taken a keen interest in public affairs. He was the Director of the Australian Institute of Political Science. He has written a letter which appeared in this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald  which I commend to all honest members opposite. He is not a man whom one would expect to be putting an argument in favour of the Government. He discussed the possibilities facing the country at present. I am not suggesting that what I am about to quote is exhaustive. If anybody wants me to table a copy of the letter, I will. He said: 
The Executive Council minute purporting to authorise the borrowing of a huge sum for 20 years for grandiose schemes of long term mineral developments as being a borrowing ' for temporary purposes ' was a flagrant breach of the Financial Agreement which is part of the Constitution. In my view, however, this does not by itself satisfy condition (a) above. . 
That is, it does not constitute grounds upon which the Prime Minister should be called upon to resign. After examining in a calm and dispassionate way the provisions of the Constitution and the possibilities now open to the Parliament,  Sir Norman  said: 
1 2 ) Other possibilities are: 
That the Prime Minister, believing that the refusal of Supply has caused a revulsion of opinion in favour of the Government, will himself advise a dissolution; 
That the Opposition, deciding that revulsion of opinion has prejudiced its chances at an election - 
In this regard I refer the Opposition to the gallup poll and to the movement in the figures-  or that the consequences of refusal of Supply are too damaging to the economy or inflict too great hardship on the whole community, decides to pass the Supply Bills; or 
That a compromise will be reached. 
Once again I commend to honourable senators opposite a careful reading of  Sir Norman's  suggestions. I suggest that this will snap them out of the corner into which they appear to have painted themselves and will convince them that it is not too late to pull back. It may be said that to change one's mind in politics and to confess to error is a humiliating experience, but I suggest that the public is not concerned so much with the face of  Mr Whitlam,  the face of  Mr Fraser  or the face of any of us as it is with a sensible solution to the problem. Obviously the public disapproves the Opposition's action. The figures, the attendances at meetings- no matter how an attempt is made to denigrate what happens at those meetings- and, I am sure, the word of mouth which Opposition senators must hear must convince them that they have made a grievous error which is disapproved by the public, and if they persist in that error they will be harming not only  Mr Fraser  and their parties but also will be inflicting irreparable damage on the country. I suggest that if they examine all those indices they can form no conclusion but that they are on the wrong path and that they are exacerbating the problems of the economy to which they are constantly pointing. I suggest that it is time for them to take stock of their position, to retreat and to do the sensible thing which the people of Australia expect of them. 
I understand that the report is to be tabled today. 
-The honourable senator's question merely proves that he is in much the same condition as that which 1 have attributed to  Mr Wechsler. 
-The answer is no. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in  Hansard. 
-As an avid reader of the  Bulletin,  I have of course seen the article mentioned. I am pleased to be able to refute this article, which appears to be part of a generalised attack by this magazine on my Department, the Commonwealth Employment Service and, of course, the Government generally. Most readers of the article would gain the impression that the 34 students being trained as interpreters and translators under the NEAT scheme are unemployed, having completed their training. I quote the words of the article: 
Of an  entire class of 34 interpreter-translators trained this year under the government's NEAT scheme at the Canberra College of Advanced Education, not one can find a job. 
In fact these translators are still undergoing their course, which does not conclude until 28 November this year. So the  Bulletin  article is 4 weeks prema ture. The students are being trained as interpreter-translators in Spanish and Italian. They come from all over Australia. There is no suggestion that all will be seeking employment in Canberra. They will be employed throughout Australia where their training will be of great assistance to Spanish and Italian speaking migrants. So far only 2 of the students have sought 
CES assistance prior to the completion of their course. My Department is pursuing with State governments, private organisations, the Department of Education and the Public Service Board the question of employing these students, and prospects are quite good. The NEAT scheme introduced by this Government is the first move towards a comprehensive labour market training scheme that Australia has made. It is significant that even the biased author of the article in question had to admit: 
The interpreter translator course was one of several begun this year in response to repeatedly voiced and largely ignored calls to pre- 1972 governments to help non-English speaking migrants in factories, unions, hospitals, courts and the community generally to understand what was going on around them and to what documents they might be signing their names. 
The NEAT scheme does not warrant most of the criticisms that are made of it. For example,  Mr Fraser  has alleged that some people have been abusing the NEAT scheme. He said in a statement reported in the  Age  newspaper on 3 December 1974: 
These people must be made to realise what they are doing. They are not taking money off some strange body called the Government. They are taking money off their neighbours and friends who pay taxes. 
Yet, this man of principle,  Mr Fraser,  who protested so piously about people seeking assistance under the NEAT scheme, is reported in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  of 79 October 1974, when addressing a fund-raising dinner for the Liberal Party, as advising his Party supporters as follows: 
I do not know if you have your wives in the NEAT scheme yet. But you should have. There is no easier way of making $5,000 a year. 
Yes, I remember the occasion quite well. As I recall it, it was the occasion of one of  Senator Greenwood's  more hysterical and turgid performances. 

 -Mr President, could I have some silence from the hillbilly on my right? Am I to be allowed to proceed, Senator? 
-On 7 
October  Senator Davidson  asked me the following question, without notice: 
I ask the Minister for Labor and Immigration whether there is any truth in the report that Australia has refused to allow refugees from Vietnam who are highly qualified professionally to enter Australia from a Hong Kong holding centre. As the report maintains that the decision is denying family re-union, will the Minister investigate the claims and the report and give the maximum humanitarian consideration to any problems? 
The reply which I now have for the honourable senator is that I am informed that 1133 Vietnamese have arrived in Australia since 1 April 1975, of whom 1034 were granted permanent residence. Of these persons, 63 were admitted on the grounds that they satisfied the normal migrant entry requirements, including the current occupation requirements.  Senator Davidson  asked specifically about Vietnamese admitted from Hong Kong. Australia admitted 203 Vietnamese from Hong Kong at the request of the Government of that colony. Those selected were those judged most in need of humanitarian assistance which resettlement in Australia would provide and who were not likely to receive such assistance from another country. The group included a number of persons of professional or sub-professional qualifications obtained in Vietnam. Their qualifications, however, are not recognised in Australia. 
Pursuant to section 37 of the Law Reform Commission Act 1973 I present the report of the Law Reform Commission on Criminal Investigation. I seek leave to make a short statement in relation to that report. 
Pursuant to section 37(5) of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Act 1970-1975 I table the fifth annual report of the AIDC for the year ended 30 June 1 975. 
The AttorneyGeneral has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the Prime Minister's reply to Question No. 885 (Senate  Hansard 2  October 1975, page 930). 
I did receive a letter from the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Fraser,  last week on the subject. He also wrote to me about the plight of some local government authorities in his electorate. I was surprised to get these letters as I had answered questions in this place a week earlier about the general situation of Regional Employment Development scheme projects and had issued a statement on 24 October on the subject generally, outlining the difficulties which the deferral of the Appropriation Bills was causing in this area of my Department's administration. I repeat for the information of honourable senators and also of  Mr Fraser  that the $5 8m provided from Supply and the Advance to the Treasurer for the RED scheme has been exhausted and my Department is unable to meet any further claims until additional funds become available. Apparently the Leader of the Opposition has belatedly realised the difficulties which his unprincipled action has already caused local government.  His  action could also cause 20 000 people to lose their employment before the projects they are working on are completed.  Mr Fraser  sought my urgent advice as to what he should tell the Dundas Shire Council about its outstanding claims for nearly $50,000. I advise him to tell the Shire Council that its claims will be met as soon as possible once he and his colleagues in this place decide to cease deferring the Appropriation Bills. 
I was first made aware of the plight of the Cadbury company a moment ago by  Senator Townley.  However, 1 will convey his question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry and let him have an early reply. 
I thought the beginning of the question was addressed to me in my capacity as representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. The question later spilled over into my portfolio of Labor and Immigration. As to the problems at Cadbury Schweppes Pty Ltd, in relation to an earlier question from  Senator Townley  I said that I was not aware of the situation at Cadburys until the question was asked. I am aware of problems in the steel industry due to the general downturn in industry. I keep myself informed at least of major trends in the work force. The figures for October are not yet available. When they are available, of course, they will be announced. 
I suppose one would have to be a member of the Opposition to place any reliance on a report in the newspaper the  Australian  which is the authority for the honourable senator's question. The article in question implies that this man Saysavath Vichidvongsa, a Laotian Colombo plan student, received only acknowledgments of his letters to my Department. This is not correct. On 2 October 1975 the Department wrote to  Mr Vichidvongsa  telling him that as he came to Australia on a Colombo Plan award the question of his continued stay in Australia and of the admission of his wife and child was a matter for determination by the Australian Development Assistance Agency which falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Similar advice was given on 23 September to the Honourable A. J. Grassby, Commissioner Designate for Community Relations who had made representations on behalf of Vichidvongsa. My Department's file shows that on 8 October 1975 the Australian Development Assistance Agency also wrote to  Mr Grassby  about the same case, indicating that inquiries would be conducted through the Sydney office of the Agency. The article in the  Australian  has been brought to the attention of the Australian Development Assistance Agency and the Department of Foreign Affairs and they are currently making inquiries as to the situation of  Mr Vichidvongsa. 
It would appear that the ADAA office in Sydney, in providing  Mr Vichidvongsa  with a return ticket to Laos for departure next week, has followed its normal procedure for all Colombo Plan students who complete their course. The changed political situation in Laos would not have been weighed as a factor. Instructions which ADAA sent to its State offices on 30 October, following an interdepartmental meeting on 29 October in Canberra which considered the implications for Laotian students here of the changed political situation in Laos, would not have been acted upon at the time  Mr Vichidvongsa  was provided with his ticket. When the ADAA and Department of Foreign Affairs inquiries are completed my Department will be informed. However, the matter at this stage is not one in which I as a Minister for Labor and Immigration am directly involved. My colleague the Minister for Foreign Affairs has responsibility for Colombo Plan and other sponsored students. That, I think, also answers the section of the question concerning the Prime Minister's responsibility. 
I can understand why  Senator Greenwood  had that sickly grin on his face throughout his speech; it is because he evidently finds even himself ridiculous. Honourable senators opposite will recall that just the other day he rose in this sanctimonious, pious manner which has become his trade mark and accused me of the awful crime of defaming someone under privilege. Let us have a look at what he has done today. A man who was once an idolexPresident Nixon- a man whose every decision in relation to Vietnam  Senator Greenwood  applauded, a man who was very much of  Senator Greenwood's  ilk because he went over to the far extreme of conservatism, even for a Republican, this man who has now been convicted of being one of the great criminal figures of American history,  Senator Greenwood  now uses in an attempt to besmirch our own Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  a man against whom no wrongdoing has yet been established, despite the attempts of the Opposition to dig up dirt from the 4 corners of the world. The Prime Minister of Australia is, in the view of this man who hates defamation, to be lumped in with one of the great political criminals of our time, ex-President Nixon. 1 would hope that if  Senator Greenwood  wishes to maintain his stance he will at least have the grace in future not to claim that other members of the Senate are defamers. This is one of the greatest pieces of defamation that one could imagine. 
Let us look at some of the more absurd propositions that  Senator Greenwood  is advancing today. He says that when  Mr Karidis  was called before the Senate the Government members of the Senate behaved in such a shameful way as to deter honourable senators opposite from repeating the performance. Let us recall some of the shameful things that were done by people from 

 Senator Greenwood's side of the Senate.  His  own leader,  Senator Withers,  called upon the  President  to order  Mr Karidis'  solicitor to table a document which he, if he had any skerrick of legal knowledge, must have known to be a document privileged as between an attorney and client. He acted as though  Mr Karidis  and his solicitor were under the same obligation as a senator in this place under standing order 364. Not only was it a disgraceful exhibition of a lack of knowledge of his Standing Orders but also it was an abdication of any of the principles that any legal man should hold dear. He asked the  President  to order the tabling of a document that was confidential as between solicitor and client.  Senator Greenwood  then has the nerve to say that we were the ones who behaved badly when  Mr Karidis  was before the Senate. The fact of the matter is that the more responsible, the more dignified, the more serious and honest members of the Opposition- I concede that they exist- were so shamed by their own performance when  Mr Karidis  was brought before the Senate that they were not game to repeat the dose with  Mr Khemlani.  We have this absurd motion that we are trying to suppress the facts from  Mr Khemlani.  For a week -  (Opposition senators interjecting) 
-This grinning hyena, the Leader of the Opposition in this place  (Senator Withers),  for a week before  Mr Khemlani  arrived in Australia appeared on every program and stated in every newspaper that he would afford all the facilities of the Senate to  Mr Khemlani  so that he could come here and tell his story. He led us to believe that as soon as  Mr Khemlani  set foot on these shores he would move a motion at least to bring him before the Senate. 
I will come to that. I will answer every point that has been raised.  Mr Khemlani  himself, from the moment that he arrived, was asking for the opportunity to appear before the Senate. But what did our opponents do? They opened up his 8 cases of documents. They sent their legal expert,  Mr Ellicott,  the man who has given such unfortunate advice to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as to have got him into his present sorry plight, and another of their legal experts to examine everything that Khemlani had brought to this country. They came up with nothing. So they did not call him before the Bar of the Senate. Are they suggesting that I had anything to do with making that difficult? Let me recount again the story of Khemlani coming to this country. On the Friday before he arrived, his attorneys in New York rang my Department and asked whether he would be given a visa. 
-Let me make the point, and you can reply later. They asked whether he could have a visa. If the Government had wanted to suppress the truth, if we had wanted to keep  Mr Khemlani  's testimony out of this country, I could have said no then. I said yes he could have a visa, no obstacle would be put in his way. Nonetheless, he arrived in this country without a visa. If I had wanted I could have turfed him out of the country there and then. He was given the ordinary transit courtesies and was told that he could stay here for another 72 hours. The Opposition knew this. He was in its hands at this stage. He had become its client.  His  papers were being sifted by its experts. When his time was up his solicitor rang me and asked whether he could have an extension of time. I said yes he could have an extension of time until Monday of this week. Can the Opposition seriously and truthfully try to tell us that I am any sort of reason why Khemlani was not brought before this place? It is absolutely absurd. It had a whole week to call him, and it did not call him. If blame, is to rest for the fact that we have not had the best evidence that could be offered on anything that Khemlani has to say, it rests at the door of the Opposition. If Khemlani has anything to say, if there is anything that the public should know, let it be said openly. Let it be published in the newspapers. 
I do not know what the honourable senator is suggesting. Is he suggesting that somehow we control the newspapers? This is the oddest of all propositionsthat somehow or other we control the newspapers. I suggest that what we are witnessing is the death throes of the Opposition's attempt to make something out of the Khemlani story. Members of the Opposition have fallen on their faces. They have hit the fence. They are fools before the whole Australian public. It is understandable that they cannot reconcile themselves to this, but let us get this silly charade over as soon as possible and get back to running the country because the public knows who to blame if the country is at a standstill at the present time. It is these people opposite who never reconciled themselves to the fact that we have won office, who think they are entitled to be over here and who have attempted by every method possible to usurp power again. The public has seen through them. None of their gyrations, none of their attempts to turn the blame away from themselves onto us in this matter will work. The Australian voter is a little bit more sensible than they thought he was. So the sooner they get around to being sensible again themselves the better it will be for their Party and for the Australian people. 
The  answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (b) The decision to establish the National and State Committees on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation was made by Cabinet, with the support of the six State Governments, and of the national employers' and trade union organisations, in May 1973, at the same time as it decided that Australia would ratify ILO Convention 111 Discrimination (Employment and Occupation), 1958. 
The Committees are serviced by officers of my Department who are appointed in accordance with, and who are employed under, the provisions of the Public Service Act 1922-75. Sitting fees and allowances for members of the Committees are based on those determined by the Remuneration Tribunal for part-time holders of public office and are subject to my approval. 
The Guidelines laid down by the National Committee for the handling of allegations of discrimination in employment and occupation include a provision for a Committee to invite parties to a complaint to appear before it to put their respective points of view if the Committee considers that this would assist in resolving the matter. 
I do not have the figures with me but I have seen some figures recently which would suggest that there has been an abatement of industrial stoppages and that the figures for the period referred to by the honourable senator are, in fact, lower than previous years. In any event, the conclusion which he attempts to draw, that wage indexation is somehow or other a failure, just will not stand up. Figures are available- I will supply them to the honourable senator- showing that the rate of increase in wages this year is far below that for last year. If, in fact, there have been stoppages by some sections of the unions in an attempt to break through the guidelines of wage indexation I can assure the honourable senator that by and large such attempts have not been successful. If there is one matter about which this Government is entitled to be proud, it is that it has in fact achieved a considerable abatement in the rise of wages this year. 
I was not aware that the discrepancy is as large as that suggested by the honourable senator. I will refer the matter to my colleague the Minister for Defence and I will have my Department make an intensive study of the facts as alleged by the honourable senator. I will let him have a considered reply. 
I am aware of the concern which has been expressed following the Treasurer's announcement in his Budget Speech which was: 
Allowances available to first and second year apprentices living away from home under NAAS - 
That is the National Apprenticeship Assistance Scheme-  are to be terminated in 1975-76. This is estimated to yield a saving of $2.7m. 
Although I accepted the need for reductions in the rate of government expenditure in the context of the overall Budget strategy of reducing inflation, I was concerned that this reduction could cause considerable hardship, especially for young people from country areas serving apprenticeships in cities. Employment prospects for school leavers from the country who wish to train in apprenticeship trades have been kept under close review by my Department. In the light of my Department's advice regarding possible hardship for country apprentices if their living away from home allowances are phased out, I raised this matter, subsequent to the presentation of the Budget, with my colleague the Treasurer to see whether the allowances could be retained. I am pleased to advise the Senate that the Treasurer has agreed with my submission that the living away from home allowance be retained. Eligible apprentices will continue to receive the allowance of $12.50 a week for first year apprentices and $5 a week for second year apprentices. I had directed my Department to continue processing claims pending the review of this matter. I had also directed my Department to see whether commensurate savings in expenditure could be made in other areas. It is a measure of this Government's concern for the future of our young people that this form of assistance, the living away from home allowance for country apprentices, is to be continued. I will be making a more detailed announcement on this matter in the near future. In the meantime, school leavers or apprentices who feel they may be eligible for the allowance should make application through the local office of the Commonwealth Employment Service. 
Yes, I would agree with the comment just cited by the honourable senator that the picture of manufacturing industry in this country is indeed a gloomy one. It did not start yesterday or last year, however. The picture of manufacturing industry in this country has been of declining use of resources over a period of some eight to ten years. The cures are manifold and I think are pointed to by the report from which the honourable senator quoted. Certainly I think there is room for some reform of the taxation scale to provide some relief to manufacturers along the lines suggested by the Mathews Committee. 1 would have liked to see some such relief given in this year's Budget but I was persuaded that, for a variety of reasons, it would not be possible to give the sort of relief that may have been desirable. 
I think that tariffs present a much more complicated picture than is often realised. I think, in fact, that a lot of Australian industries over a lengthy period have been over-protected. This has contributed to inefficiencies which are now endemic in our manufacturing industry. Of course, an enlightened tariff policy is part of the program of upgrading the efficiency of manufacturing industry. However, recent experience with the 25 per cent tariff cut shows that this has to be approached probably more gradually and with complementary measures than was attempted by this Government. I think that we can learn important lessons from the partial failure of the 25 per cent tariff cut. I hope that these lessons will be taken to heart by governments in the future. 
I certainly would agree that the wages explosion of last year contributed greatly to the erosion of the profits of manufacturing industry. Of course, it is notorious that this Government has attempted to do something to prevent a similar wages explosion this year. It has espoused not the total cure, not the panacea, but the expedient of wage indexation in an attempt to confine wage increases to rises in the cost of living and it is having some success. The figures show that the ratio of profits to wages and salaries which deteriorated so drastically last year against the entrepreneurs is, to a large extent, being reversed this year. In short, I would agree with the honourable senator that the picture of manufacturing industry was in the recent past and still is a melancholy one and one from which none of us can take any comfort. I hope that the measures which the Government has taken are beginning to have effect and that the coming year will be a brighter year for manufacturing industry than the last one was. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
l ) to (3) The Department of Labor and Immigration has no provisions in the 1975-76 Budget for direct untied grants to the States for distribution as the States see fit to local government bodies, nor for tied grants to the States for distribution to local government bodies on terms set out by the Federal Government. 
Pursuant to sub-section 35 (3) of the Law Reform Commission Act 1973 I present the annual report of the Law Reform Commission for 1975. 
I ask that the question be placed on the notice paper. 
For the information of honourable Senators I present the report of the conference of Ministers for Immigration held in Perth on 4 April 1975. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Details of complaints of discrimination in employment and occupation considered by the National and State Committees on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation from their establishment in June 1973, until the end of September 1975, and the action taken in respect of these complaints, are contained in the following table. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  (l)and(2)- 
I have been asked several questions over a period of some weeks by  Senator Carrick  and I am now in a position to inform the Senate concerning the future status of students from South Vietnam and Cambodia, some of whom have expressed concern that the Government may require them to return to their home countries against their will. Any such concern is without foundation. The Government has no such intention. However, it is expected that many of the students from Vietnam and Cambodia who are currently completing their courses will wish to return home. 
The Government has now decided that Government sponsored students from South Vietnam and Cambodia may apply for resident status in Australia if they so desire. This applies whether they have completed their studies, have terminated their studies before completion or still have a further period of study ahead of them to complete their courses. Since 1973 private students from these two countries have been eligible under the normal policy to seek resident status upon the successful completion of their study courses. The Government's decision will now enable those private students who are still studying or who have abandoned their studies to apply for resident status if they do not wish to return home. 
Some private and Government sponsored students may be in receipt of special financial assistance from the Australian Government to enable them to continue their studies. The acquisition of resident status could influence their continued eligibility to receive that assistance. We will ensure that private and Government sponsored students in this situation who apply for resident status will be fully informed so that they can determine whether they would prefer the question of resident status to be held over until they have completed their studies. There would, of course, be no problems about extension of their temporary stay for this purpose. 
This decision recognises the situation of Vietnamese and Cambodian students and does not, by implication, confer on students from other countries the same privileges. Concern has also been expressed by some students from Laos whose courses of study have finished or are about to finish that the Government may require them to return to their home country. Any Laotian student who has completed his studies and applies to remain permanently will have his application considered sympathetically on its merits against i:he normal criteria for such cases. 
The  answer to  the  honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The National Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation has held 27 meetings, all in Melbourne, on the following dates: 
29.6.73, 3.8.73, 11.9.73, 16.10.73, 26.11.73, 6.2.74, 13.3.74, 24.4.74, 13.6.74, 17.7.74, 21.8.74, 25.9.74, 29.10.74, 27.11.74, 28.11.74, 20.12.74, 3.2.75, 14.2.75, 12.3.75, 14.4.75, 9.5.75, 18.6.75, 21.7.75, 5.8.75, 20.8.75. 11.9.75, 15.10.75. 
and (4) The New South Wales Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation has held 21 meetings, all in Sydney, on the following dates: 
1.8.73, 16.10.73, 5.12.73, 5.2.74, 13.3.74, 10.4.74, 24.4.74, 1.5.74,29.5.74,26.6.74, 14.8.74, 18.9.74, 6.11.74. 29.1.75, 17.3.75, 23.4.75, 28.5.75, 25.6.75, 24.7.75, 27.8.75,2.10.75. 
The Victorian Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation has held 44 meetings, all in Melbourne ( except where indicated ), on the following dates: 23.7.73, 20.8.73, 24.9.73, 15.10.73, 29.10.73, 5.11.73, 19.11.73, 4.12.73, 10.12.73, 18.12.73, 11.2.74, 4.3.74, 1.4.74 (Springvale), 22.4.74, 7.5.74, 20.5.74, 3.6.74, 24.6.74, 2.7.74, 15.7.74 (Shepparton), 5.8.74, 19.8.74, 16.9.74, 23.9.74, 14.10.74, 21.10.74, 4.11.74, 25.11.74, 16.12.74, 13.1.75, 25.2.75 (Mildura), 17.3.75, 14.4.75. 5.5.75, 12.5.75, 30.5.75 (Geelong), 9.6.75, 7.7.75, 21.7.75, 24.7.75, 18.8.75, 8.9.75, 29.9.75,20.10.75. 
The Queensland Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation has held 19 meetings, all in Brisbane (except where indicated), on the following dates: 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  (I to 3) Computer Sciences of Australia Pty Ltd. Assist with the analysis and design of an on-line ADP system for the Commonwealth Employment Service. Cost $1 13,350. 

 Dr F. Emery. Survey of the Quality of Work Life in Australia. Cost Nil. 
Australian Sales Research Bureau Pty Ltd. Services in connection with Survey of the Quality of Work Life in Australia. Cost $52,758. 

 Mr M. F. Stevens; senior partner of Robertson, Darling &amp; Wolfenden- Chartered Accountants. Pilot survey of Stevedoring Industry. Cost $747. 
Computer Sciences of Australia Pty Ltd. Feasibility study and strategic design for an integrated information system to serve the information storage, retrieval "and processing requirements of the former Department of Immigration. Cost $78,000. 

 Mr K. D. Marks,  Mr R.  E. McGarvie; Q.C. Enquiry on Coordinated Industrial Organisations. Cost  Mr Marks  $1 1,736,  Mr McGarvie  $9,8 12. 

 Dr J. R. Niland,  Dr R.  Gregory. Assistance with the development of an integrated manpower policy. Cost  Dr Niland  $38 1 ,  Dr Gregory  $480. 
Prof. D. Cochrane,  Mr P.  Clancy,  Mr E.  Donohoe. Committee of Enquiry into Labour Market Training. Cost Prof. Cochrane $425,  Mr Clancy  $370,  Mr Donohoe  $230. 
Prof. D. Dunphy. Advice on organisational development and job enrichment within the Department. Cost $11,143. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The following information states the position as at 24 October 1975- 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1975, the  President  of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has assigned industries or groups of industries to panels of members of the Commission as follows: 
I am sorry that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack had to make such a hasty and rather clumsy exit as I should have liked him to have heard what I had to say about him.  His  sanctimonious little sermon to the Senate would have been more acceptable if he had shown a little more courtesy and good manners earlier in the day. It did not go unmarked on this side of the chamber that a couple of the rivals that you had for your election to the Presidency of the Senate,  Mr President- Senator Young  and  Senator Davidson-  had the good grace to stand in their places and to compliment and to congratulate you. I am sure that we all admire them for their sportsmanship m so doing. But we noticed that the man who has just left us so rapidly and who read us such a sermon in good manners and civility did not have the grace to do so. So his words fell on our ears with a great clang this afternoon. He does not uphold the best traditions of this place. I wish he had stayed to hear me say this about him. I do not think he shed any credit on himself at all today. I hope that the affairs of the Senate will be conducted in this session with a greater attention to civility than we have had from a man who should be an exemplar of civility in this place. 

 -Mr President, it is a pleasure to be addressing the chamber with yourself in the Chair. May I say at the outset that I compliment  Senator Messner  on what I thought was a temperate and thoughtful contribution in his maiden speech.  His  subject is one which attracted my attention- and my sympathetic attention- when I was Minister for Manufacturing Industry. 
Getting down to the gravamen of this debate, I should like to say at the outset that I do not want to provoke any invocation of standing order 4 1 7. I have said publicly what I think of the Governor-General. It was especially painful to me because he was- and I underline 'was'- a close personal friend for many years. I believe it would have been shameful of me if I had not spoken against him in the way that I have publicly. But as 1 watched the address from the Throne on national television yesterday, I wondered whether behind that bizarrely beribboned breast there might be some feeling of disenchantment on the part of the Governor-General at the shallow words which he had to speak on behalf of the Government which he had helped to launch in such an extraordinary way. Before considering in some detail the assortment of philosophical  cliches,  guarded promises with barely concealed escape clauses and just plain waffle which constituted the speech from the Throne, let me volunteer - 
-We understand  Senator Jessop  at this time of the day. But I was suggesting that I might volunteer one small item of information which may help to make the historical record of last year's events a little more complete. I speak not in dispraise or praise- heaven forfend, as  Sir Robert  Menzies used to say- of the Governor-General but in explanation. The Governor-General's apologists, including a man,  Mr President,  who sat yesterday in the Chair that you now occupy- I refer to  Sir Garfield  Barwick- and who played a particularly shabby role in last year's coup, have given a public defence of the Governor-General's actions. The suggestion behind all of those defences is that in the given situation of last year the Governor-General had one option only, and he took it. But,  Mr President,  at least to me and to  Mr Whitlam,  the Governor-General went to considerable pains- in fact to quite extraordinary pains- to indicate the contrary. 
Now, much has been said and written about a lunch which occurred at Yarralumla, attended by myself,  Mr Whitlam  and the GovernorGeneral. I think it was about 29 October. It was just an ordinary meeting of the Executive Council. I may say that from the outset of the Supply crisis I did my best to avoid any contact at all with the Governor-General. I believed that it was improper as an old friend for me to try to influence him in any way. I thought that it might be embarrassing to him if it were known that he had had conversations with me. So I did my best to avoid Executive Council meetings. I was on terms with the Governor-General where I could phone him and have immediate access to him, and where he could phone me and come to visit my home- incognito, if you like- even after he became Governor-General. But I believed in pursuance of the niceties of the situation that I should try to keep out of his way and not embarrass him during the crisis. 
But there came a time in an ordinary routine meeting of the Executive Council where I found myself with the then Prime Minister at Yarralumla. I was invited to lunch by my old friend, the Governor-General. At that lunch he freely discussed the constitutional crisis. I can assure all honourable senators that the only deduction which could not be drawn from what he said to us was that he contemplated in any way exercising the option which he ultimately exercised. In fact, he led us to believe that that was not on his mind and would never be on his mind. On another occasion, he said to me privately: 'I do not concede that any crisis ' - 
I feel free to say these things because of the things which have been said, the falsifications of the situation, not by the Governor-General but by his apologists. The Governor-General said to me: 'I do not concede that there is any crisis requiring my intervention until the money runs out'. We know how much has been said to countervail that proposition since, that there were all sorts of things which required his intervention when he did intervene. 
-You will get your opportunity, senator. You know differently.  Senator Carrick  knows differently. I will come to  Senator Carrick  in due course. I am glad that he is paying meticulous attention. 
I have never divulged, and I did not think I should divulge until today, something which I am about to, which I feel it incumbent upon me to divulge in the interests of historical accuracy. That is that a little more than a week before 1 1 November, the Governor-General phoned me at my home. We know what has been said about what he did, about the option which he ultimately exercised being the only option available to him. But that was not what was on the Governor.General's mind that day. The Governor-General spoke to me about  Mr Fraser  having painted himself into a corner and how we could get him off the hook, how he and I and the Labor Government could collaborate to solve the problem by finding a solution for  Mr Fraser  which would not involve a total loss of face. What the Governor-General suggested was that the Whitlam Government should undertake to him that he should convey to  Mr Fraser  a proposition that we have a half Senate election but that it would not call the Senate together until 1 July of this year and therefore would not attempt to gain any adventitious advantage about all of the things that were speculated upon at that time when it was said that we might have an accidental majority until 1 July. 
The Governor-General said to me: 'I believe that what is primarily on their mind is a worry that if you get a majority for a short period you will introduce electoral reform that will put the Country Party out of business'. He said: 'I believe that the best contribution that I could make in this crisis would be to call up  Mr Fraser  and suggest to him that he could save face by agreeing to a suggestion such as that'. That may not strike honourable senators as such a dishonourable or extraordinary suggestion. I am not criticising the Governor-General for having that idea. As a matter of fact, I think it was a perspicacious idea and quite a shrewd way out of the crisis.. But the questions that do really arise are these: Certainly I was an old friend, but why should he go out of his way to ring me? I was also a partisan. I had an interest in the outcome as a member of a government which was likely to be dismissed if he took a certain course of action. One wonders how many others he talked to. We know that he talked to  Sir Garfield  Barwick. One wonders whether he had private chats with  Mr Ellicott  or with his old, good friend  Mr Atwill,  the  President  of the Liberal Party of Australia. Why did he talk to me? Why did he single me out? 
-No, not at all. Did he ring every Executive Councillor? I was the only Executive Councillor he rang privately at his home. The reason the GovernorGeneral rang me was to lull me and my Party into a false sense of security. I believe now that he had made up his mind before Supply was deferred and that at all times the leading figures of the Liberal Party knew that they had this ace up their sleeve. That is why we talk of a coup and that is why we regard this incident as the most shameful single act in Australia's history. Let us look at the justification for the coup. They had to get rid, in the terms of  Mr Fraser,  'of the worst government in Australia's history'. 
Government senators- Hear, hear! 
-Listen to the people who supported our involvement in Vietnam saying 'hear, hear! ' to that proposition. Seeing that all this water has passed under the bridge, let us look now at the justification for this extraordinary act of getting rid of a legally elected government, of dismissing a legally elected Prime Minister. The alleged justification is to be found in the Speech from the throne that we heard yesterday. It gives the reasons why these people felt it necessary and incumbent upon them to do the extraordinary things they did to seize power last year. Let us look at what they say. First of all they say that their great task is to solve the problem of inflation. They will have no quarrel with me or with the Opposition about that. The phrase 'the control of inflation is the Government's first consideration' is one with which I heartily agree and one with which I agreed publicly here and in many other places while I was a Minister last year. But the solution of the problem of inflation requires above all else that there be established a broad national concensus. If any single, powerful pressure group in this country believes that it is being sold down the drain, that it is not getting a fair go or that favours are being given to one section rather than to another section, the fight against inflation is doomed. 
During the electoral campaign I appeared on many rostrums. I appeared in debates with a man for whom I have great respect- the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, which is the equivalent of the job I had,  Mr Tony  Street. I believe  Mr Street  has a genuine interest in the fight against inflation and I believe that he came into his present office with a determination to do the right things to fight inflation and, above all else, to honour the commitment that he made publicly on many platforms with me that he would support the continuation of wage indexation. I never believed, any more than the judges of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission believe, that wage indexation is a panacea for our economic ills or that it offers any sort of permanent solution for inflation, but it has been a very potent weapon in the fight against inflation. In 1974 average weekly earnings rose by 32 per cent. Last year, the year of wage indexation, they rose by less than 13 percent. 
To persuade the unions to accept the proposition that in their own interests as well as in the interests of Australia they had to accept a wage pause was a very formidable task- a task which I understood, a task which I undertook and a task which has cost me dearly politically. Nonetheless I believe that if we do not continue wage indexation for the period ahead, if we do not persuade the unions, as I agree that  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Street  managed to persuade them, that they will get a fair go from this Government, we can kiss the fight against inflation goodbye. 1 believe that this Government, which claims to have been elected to fight inflation, has already kissed the fight against inflation goodbye because it has lost the confidence of the trade unions; it has lost any credibility with the trade unions. The first thing it did when it came to office was to honour the promise to restore the superphosphate bounty. Its next action was to take the knock on its promise about wage indexation. Already in this Speech from the throne there are all sorts of escape clauses concerning the promise of tax indexation. In other words, as I feared but hoped I was wrong, the Government has shown itself in the space of two or three months to be a sectional government, a government which has no real interest in the affairs of the ordinary man, despite the cliches that are dotted throughout this Speech. 
The Government has, I sadly believe, already lost the fight against inflation by what it has done in taking the knock on its promises in the first few months in office. The consensus has been shattered, as has been shown by the action of the Australian Council of Trade Unions yesterday. While the Governor-General was making all of these holy pronunciamentos from the throne, the ACTU, on the evidence of a lack of faith in this Government, had already decided that it would take no part in the National Labour Advisory Committee, which is one of the centrepieces of this address from the throne, and for very good reasons. The ACTU believes that it could not trust the Government and I believe that it cannot trust the Government. That is a national tragedy because the trust of the trade unions has to be won. 
There were shortcomings on the part of the Labor Government. We certainly affronted a large section of the business community. I think that was a great mistake on our part. I think that one of the reasons for our downfall, apart from being the victims of one of the most gruesome conspiracies in parliamentary democracy, is that our opponents were able to portray us as enemies of business. We were not, but I believe that they could persuade the business world that we were its enemy. Irrespective of whether the ladies and gentlemen opposite are the enemies of the unions, the fact of the matter is that the unions now believe that they are their enemies. That is just as bad as if they are, because it destroys any hope of co-operation or of pegging back inflation. I believe that we were on top in the fight against inflation. I believe that we had begun to turn the corner and that we would have got inflation under control. I predict, sadly- again I hope I am wrong- that inflation will go through the roof this year and that the Government's pins and paper clips economies, with the little savings here and there, will achieve nothing in the way of solving our major problems. As I have said in another place, far from turning on the lights,  Mr Fraser  gives me the impression of a man groping around in the dark trying to find the switch. That characterises everything that the Government is doing. 
Another field in respect of which I must express grave misgivings because of the gap between words and action is the environment. I am especially disturbed because the task of looking after the environment has been given to the leader of the demolition squad,  Senator Greenwood. His  specific task is to tear down as much as he can of what our Government achieved. There are phrases in the Speech which suggest a concern for the environment; but will honourable senators on the Government side, particularly  Senator Greenwood,  please stand up and tell us what he proposes in relation to the Australian Heritage Commission? All over Australia there are buildings and sections of the environment that need nurturing and help. This problem will not be solved by some sort of Ayn Rand belief in the virtue of private enterprise or a return to pre-Adam Smith economics. These are matters in which there is a need for positive government intervention. All the people concerned with the Heritage Commission and with the old buildings in Australia know that they can expect nothing from this Government. Honourable senators say in explanation that there have to be some temporary economies; but the temporary economies in relation to the heritage of this country will mean that that heritage will crumble before the Government gets around to devoting a little bit of money to it. 
The Government also pays some sort of tribute in the Speech to the creative arts. I remember the Philistine comments which constantly flowed from the then Opposition side of the chamber about  Blue Poles,  dahlia festivals and everything like that. Do honourable senators on the Government side think that anybody in this country can have any confidence that they are anything but a bunch of Philistines? The creative arts are doomed under this Government, just as the environment is doomed. In the Speech there are evasive, contradictory statements about tax indexation. If honourable senators read the small print on tax indexation they will find that the Government also leaves itself an out. I say to  Senator Withers,  whose usual answer to matters on which he cannot bring up any sort of a reply is to giggle with all of the sophistication of the provincial, small time lawyer, that one day his great leader will have to acknowledge the truth of what I am saying now, which is that, as with wage indexation, the Government will take the knock on tax indexation. The unions understand that perfectly well. 
Then, in the Speech, we have a little bit of window dressing about secret ballots in unions. There is very little excuse for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  making this gross error in the field of labour relations, as he was once the shadow Minister for Labour. Did not anybody tell him that section 133 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act already makes provision for secret ballots? Do honourable senators opposite really believe that they will get rid of people like Halfpenny and Carmichael, whom they do not like - 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that since the Government broke its contract with the National Employment and Training scheme students applications for NEAT have dropped by 20 per cent and that a number of those students currently training under the NEAT scheme have had to abandon their courses because they cannot live on the revised NEAT payments? How does the Minister equate the falling off of applicants for NEAT training with the statement which he made that 3000 additional people will be able to be trained under NEAT due to the Government's action in reducing the NEAT payment? Finally, is the Government's real intention in relation to NEAT to kill the whole scheme? 
-Has the Minister for Science seen today a copy of the weekly publication, the  Bulletin?  In particular, has he read an article written by one Peter Samuel and titled 'The Rabid Right Reemerges'? If so, has he noticed that the article contains an allegation that a newsletter published by the League of Rights advertised the Minister as guest  speaker  at a dinner of the League of Rights in March 1974? Is the Minister aware that the League of Rights has been denounced for its reactionary, racist policies by, among others,  Mr Anthony, Mr Sinclair  and  Mr Hunt?  Did the Minister attend as guest  speaker  a dinner of the League of Rights in March 1974 or at any other time? 
I ask the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs whether he agrees with  Mr Lewis,  the former Premier of New South Wales until his deposition a little earlier this year, who told us last Friday that there is now no need for a State income tax; or whether on the other hand he agrees with the present Premier of New South Wales,  Sir Eric  Willis, who told the Premiers 
Conference on 4 February, as recorded at page 89 of the official transcript: 
Whether we do it in the first, second, or third year, we will ultimately reach a point where the States are imposing income tax in addition to Commonwealth income taxCommonwealth for Commonwealth purposes and for topping up the less affluent States, the States for their own purposes. 
In these troubled times it is reassuring to know that a new Messiah has arrived. In his windy Billy Graham style the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  has made it clear that he proposes to repeat the miracle of the loaves and fishes. Taxes will be lowered all round but everybody will get more. One oddity in the Minister's speech was that it took him until the closing minutes of his half-hour oration to mention the subject that we are discussing today. Obviously what he, the architect of the new federalism, fears above all else is that it will get through to the people of New South Wales and to the people of Australia that his scheme of federalism does involve double taxation and inevitably involves more taxation. 
Yesterday, he was particularly evasive when subjected to some questioning. He explained that double taxation is not double taxation, that what the States impose in addition to what the Commonwealth imposes is to be called a surcharge instead of a tax. That is something like offering a condemned man a choice of strychnine or arsenic. In order to dissipate the obfuscation which I believe may be in his own mind or which he may be deliberately employing in order to hide the sordid reality of his plans, let us have a look at the record. I am not referring only to the propaganda document of the Liberal Party; I also mean the transcript of the proceedings at the Premiers Conference which took place on 4 February. Obviously it never occurred to  Senator Carrick,  to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or to  Sir Eric  Willis that this document would come into the hands of their opponents and that we would find out exactly what they did say behind closed doors. 
Surely the test of what the Government's policy means was what occurred at that Conference of 4 February. The official transcript tells a story which not only confounds  Senator Carrick  but illustrates dramatically the downright deceit of  Sir Eric  Willis in his desperate attempts to hold on to the job of Premier of New South Wales. At first  Sir Eric  Willis was against a State income tax. On page 8 1 of the official transcript of that Conference,  Sir Eric  Willis said: 
If in fact the rule was laid down for this game that we are about to play - 
He saw that it was a charade-  that only if a State wants to impose a surcharge is it necessary for that State to bring in legislation, then no State will be the first one to move in that direction. They will all prefer not to be branded as the first one to reimpose State taxation on their own citizens. So we might as well stop right here and now. But I have been assured here today by at least one of your colleagues,  Mr Prime  Minister, that that is not your intention. This is why I am a little confused as to what is in fact the ultimate objective. 
There we have it,  Sir Eric  Willis, a man of noted perspicacity, confessing that he was confused. Nevertheless he was bravely telling his boss, the Prime Minister- this great federalist who emerges from this document as a mighty centralistthat he would not legislate to bring in a State income tax. That is what we may call the Willis position No. 1. Immediately after  Sir Eric  Willis said that, the Prime Minister did his best to dissipate  Sir Eric's  confusion by saying these brutal words: 
The interpretation that  Sir Eric  Willis gives this clause is not the one we had in mind, because we believed it simpler to write into the basic grant the historic situation that has developed, and that is what States get- 
But mark these words-  and then if they want more they can tax more. 
-That is what  Mr Fraser  said to  Sir Eric  Willis. What was  Sir Eric's  reaction to this? The answer is simple: He backed down.  Sir Eric  backed down and said: 
I do not want to flog a dead horse and I think that the horse is already dead. 
A franker way of putting it would have been to say that  Sir Eric's  principal objection to State income tax had died a sudden death. It took 5 minutes for him to back right down and to agree on a State income tax, which he did in these words: 
There has to be some understanding that, whether we do it in the first, second or third year, we will ultimately reach a point where the States are imposing income tax in addition to Commonwealth income tax- Commonwealth for Commonwealth purposes and for topping up the less affluent States; the States for their own purposes. 
That we may call the Willis position No. 2. What else does that mean in plain English? We know now why  Senator Carrick  wanted to avoid like the plague the words 'double taxation'.  Senator Carrick  was at this conference. He knows that the record damns everything he has said not only here today but also in answer to a series of questions to him during the past few weeks. He knows that the record shows beyond peradventure that what is ahead of the people of Australia is double taxation and additional taxation. 
I am quoting from documents and I want to be accurate. That is why I paused for a moment.  Senator Wright  would rather have waffle, would he? This is confirmed a little later when  Sir Eric  Willis asked the Prime Minister: 
What I would like to get clear is whether your objective is that it will be a voluntary matter and whether I am working towards a point where you accept the thesis which I have just advanced and that a responsible State government should be raising its own taxes. 
Again, this federalist Prime Minister did not mess about. He said: 
If a State sought to raise no tax and just lived on what came from the Commonwealth I suppose it would be seen to be irresponsible, especially when the power to raise or lower a tax was there and it was not using that power ... I would have thought that if a power were there the Premiers would use it. 

 Sir Eric Willis not only responded enthusiastically to the idea but also made it clear that New South Wales would go it alone if the other States desisted from imposing their own income tax. He announced to the other Premiers: 
We could not accept the view that any one State that decided to introduce income tax could be frustrated by the inability of other States to finalise arrangements. We should be free, individually, to take our own courses. 
This is what  Sir Eric  Willis permitted himself to say behind closed doors at the Premiers' Conference on 4 February. He did have some initial misgivings but it is worth noting that far from being based on principle his misgivings were based on cynical party political grounds. He was simply afraid, to use his own words, of being branded as the first Premier to introduce State income tax. But when the Prime Minister cracked the whip he went to water. But the drama of  Sir Eric  or Little by Little does not end there. When  Mr Wran  exposed his suppression of the facts and secret commitments, he twisted once again. By Friday night of last week  Sir Eric  was pledging that a re-elected State Liberal-National Country Party government would not abolish State taxes and replace them with an income tax during the life of the next State Parliament. So, we now have the Willis position No. 3. In short, on the question of imposing a State income tax the stand of this man of principle is: 'We won't; we will; we won't'. 
-Of course,  Senator Carrick  did not mention it. I suggest that the honourable senator get used to the realities of politics. After she has been here a little while she will understand that. There is another very interesting matter. It has been suggested that if there is ever to be State income tax it will be a very gradual process. The interesting point to note from the transcript are these words from  Mr Fraser: 
I should like these arrangements introduced as quickly as possible. I should like the transitional period to be as short as possible . . . 
All the waffle which we have heard about this being something in the far distant future falls to the ground in the light of that statement by the man who was really cracking the whip. When we consider whether the Premiers are likely to introduce State income tax and when, we must bear in mind that tax indexation- no matter what  Senator Carrick  says- must reduce the amount available for distribution to the States. That is not my say so.  Senator Carrick  paints a rosy picture of the wheels of industry turning again with everybody back at work. He forgets that the Government is following a deliberate policy of increasing unemployment. That is the only policy it knows for putting the workers in their place.  Senator Carrick  forgets that in a recent Treasury Department document which was considered by his Cabinet these words were put by a Treasury official: 
But the position will, of course, change quite markedly, once the personal income is fully subjected to indexation. Leaving aside the possibility of discretionary charges in income tax rates, an indexed personal income tax would over a longer term at least, almost certainly, yield less in terms of growth than the present grants formula . . . 
I ask every honourable senator to listen closely to the words which follow because they sum up the whole position. The paper states: 
This could mean that, to simply maintain what they have now, the States may be forced to increase the surcharge on income tax which they would have to levy under their own legislation. This could be summarised as the Commonwealth handing over the dirty work of increasing taxes to the States. 
That sums up neatly and precisely, in the words of an impartial public servant, just what the Liberal Party's new federalism amounts to. It means handing over the dirty work to the States. Despite all the noble protestations which we have had from  Senator Carrick  today, that is the reality of the package which he is trying to sell under such a noble label. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Does the Government intend to transfer to the States responsibility for rehabilitation matters? In particular, does it intend to transfer responsibility for matters covered by the Sheltered Employment Assistance Act 1974? 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether he will confirm or deny that the Prime Minister has given directions to the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board that staff ceilings are to be stretched to the extent of allowing the appointment of an additional 270 public servants to work on rural reconstruction in the dairy industry. Is the Prime Minister prepared to consider giving a direction that staff ceilings should be reviewed in the Aboriginal employment section of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, in view of the fact that the unemployment level among Aborigines has reached 30 per cent or roughly 6 times the national average? 
Listening to  Senator Carrick  one might be excused for getting the impression that his Government already had turned on the lights. Of course, the fact is that it is still groping in the dark for the switch. I would like to comment briefly on what has been variously called the Government's mini-Budget or the Lynch economic package with special reference to why  Mr Lynch  's sermon on the mount, as it has been almost dubbed by  Senator Carrick,  came to be made at all. I believe wholeheartedly in the primacy of the fight against inflation. It cannot be separated from the fight against employment. Last year as Minister for Labor and Immigration I spent a lot of time and effort trying to convince unionists that not only was it against the interests of the nation but also against their own interests if they sought wage rises of such dimensions that they created a pressure on prices which ultimately had the effect of eroding their wage increases and making them illusory. I never, by the way, suggested to unionists that they should accept a cut in real wages. 
I think I can claim some modest success for these efforts. Average weekly earnings in the year ended December 1974 increased by some 28 per cent. The increase in average weekly earnings in the year ended December 1975 was only 10 per cent and inflation came down from a peak of 17.6 per cent to 13 per cent. I also believe, in accordance with the acceptance by my party of the notion of a mixed economy in which the health of the private sector is a pre-condition for the provision of services by the public sector, that the profit level, especially in the manufacturing section of our society, had sunk to a point where retained earnings were not sufficient to provide the necessary investment to preserve competitiveness and safeguard jobs. I believe that unless inflation can be pegged back there can be no serious or permanent diminution in the level of unemployment. But the fight against inflation depends above all on the establishment of a broad social consensus. The important pressure groups in our society will not co-operate if they believe that they are being got at- that they are being asked to carry more than a just share of the burden of our present social malaise. 
I believe that the Government has been particularly hamfisted in its attempts to obtain the co-operation of the trade unions. I want to make it quite clear that my criticism is not directed towards my successor in the labor portfolio,  Mr 
Street. I think that he has been flexible and receptive and that he is trying very hard to fulfil the demands of what I regard as the most exacting portfolio in a modem government. I cite an incident. During the general election campaign  Mr Street  and I took part in a television appearance on  Monday Conference.  It was taped- it did not go live to air. We sat down afterwards and watched it being shown. I had a conversation with  Mr Street  and among other things I said to him: 'I believe you people are being very shortsighted if you think that you are going to be able to persuade the unions to accept continuing wage restraint and at the same time tell them that you propose to abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal. This will be seen by the unions to be saying to them: 'You tighten your belts', but to be saying to the employers: 'Bob's your uncle, charge whatever you like'.' The very next day  Mr Fraser  backpedalled on his promise to abolish the Prices Justification Tribunal. I like to believe that  Mr Street,  after listening to me, went to  Mr Fraser  and told him that he was being stupid, and  Mr Fraser  listened. 
Similarly in the matter of the trade union ballots. According to the benighted lights, I believe, of the Liberals in the matter of trade unions- one would believe sometimes that they had never met a trade unionist- they had this magic formula of secret postal ballots that were supposed to solve all the problems of the trade unions and of the community, to get rid of troublemakers and to free unions of militants like Halfpenny and Carmichael. This was all based on an illusion. It was based on the notion that if a higher percentage of members of trade unions were persuaded to vote they would not vote for militants. That is an unwarranted assumption and it is one that could be based only on total ignorance of the nature of the trade union movement. To his credit,  Mr Street  also finally, I believe helped by my nagging, saw the folly of this and in the interests of trying to come to some sort of an arrangement with the unions- without which this Government will not be able to govern- dropped this idea, for which the returns would have been miniscule and which could have involved the country in an unnecessary confrontation. So I say- and I say this wholeheartedlythat 1 believe that  Mr Street  has made a good job of his attempts to carry out a most difficult task, but I fear that his best efforts are often steamrollered in Cabinet. 1 know from my own experience that that is where the real fight takes place. 
Let us examine the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch  's package in the light of the Government's promises and its record. During the election campaign  Mr Fraser  promised, firstly, that he would maintain wage indexation. He made no qualification of this promise. He did not say that he would maintain it perhaps, or that he would maintain part of it. We on this side of the chamber face the fact realistically that a great number of trade unionists must have supported  Mr Fraser  or else he would not have been able to get the thumping majority that he got in the election. I believe that one of the crucial ingredients in the faith which the unionists placed in  Mr Fraser  was that they believed he would maintain wage indexation in the same way as the previous Government had declared its unequivocal support for wage indexation. But what did we see? At the first national wage hearing after the new Government came to power  Mr Fraser  sent counsel along to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to ask it to give half wage indexation.  His  reasons were so flimsy, so inept and so hamfisted that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission almost humiliated the counsel that he sent along to put this phoney unsupported argument. But this was the first lesson in disillusionment that the workers of Australia who had voted for  Mr Fraser-  who had put their faith in him- had about what an election promise meant to  Mr Fraser. 
Some reference has been made today to  Mr Fraser  's appearance on  Monday Conference  this week in which he said, in effect, that an election promise made in the course of an election campaign of course is not to be taken seriously. This was the first lesson that the people of Australia had about what a promise meant to  Mr Fraser.  He also said that he would maintain Medibank. He did not put any qualification on that. He did not say that he would emasculate Medibank. He did not say that he was in favour of 2 types of medical scheme for Australians. 
-There was no qualification upon his promise, and I suggest that the honourable senator reads  Mr Fraser  's election speech. I suggest, in fact, to every member of the Liberal and National Country Parties that he go back and reread the election speech of  Mr Fraser.  But as we know from the Lynch package, Medibank as we understood it- as everybody in Australia understood it- is destined for destruction, and some sort of an emasculated version of a national health scheme will be introduced. 
I trust that we shall hear from  Senator Walters  in due course. She interjects in this way every time that I, at least, speak. But I never notice that she jumps into the list of speakers to refute me when she gets the opportunity. So I suggest that she show a little bit of respect for the forms of the Senate. I suggest that unionists will regard as a betrayal this part of the Lynch package relating to Medibank. I talk about this in the context of what I believe to be at the heart of modern government- that is, the search for a social compact, the necessity to convince the powerful sections of society that the Government is not ripping them off or favouring any other section. 
We come now to tax indexation.  Senator Carrick  in his style of twitting the Opposition in what he thinks is a damaging way put to us the question of whether we support tax indexation. Of course we do. In the Cabinet discussions of last year I attempted to sell the idea of tax indexation but I was convinced- and I believe that those who convinced me were correct- that the revenue at that stage could not stand tax indexation. Let us have a look. Really, the surprise of the Lynch package is the promise to implement full tax indexation from 1 July. It had been promised over a 3-year period, but  Mr Lynch  says that it is to be introduced in one fell swoop to get, and I quote him, 'the Government's hands out of taxpayers' pockets and for wage policy reasons'. 
As I understand it, the proposition which the Government is attempting to sell to wage earners is this: With tax indexation wage earners will not move into a higher taxation bracket in the year commencing 1 July 1976 and therefore they should be content with wage increases something less than the rises in the consumer price index. This is the burden of the submissions that the Government put to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission.  Mr Lynch  himself has stated that he wants to see increases in wages something less than the rises in the CPI. Admittedly,  Mr Fraser  on  Monday Conference  the other night gave a different impression. But the fact that they speak in different tongues should not blind us to the fact that on serious occasions, and in the important propaganda statements that they make they advocate a wage indexation of a different kind from the one that we espoused and which the workers bought, that is, rises which fully compensate workers for increases in the cost of living. The proposal which is being put by the Government in alliance with tax indexation still amounts to asking workers to take a cut in real wages. 
Nobody believes that inflation will disappear on 1 July merely because tax indexation commences from that date. Prices will continue to rise, though it is hoped by us as well as by the Government that they will rise at a lower rate than the current rate of some 13 per cent per annum. So even when a taxpayer's income tax bracket has been adjusted by indexation he will not keep pace with rises in the cost of living unless he receives full wage indexation also. Yet the Government is attempting to sell workers on the idea that because their taxes are not increased as a result of tax indexation, they should accept a cut in real wages by accepting something less than the amount necessary to compensate them for rises in what they must pay for goods. There might be some justification for this if tax indexation meant a decline in actual tax paid. But this is the case only for those whose incomes do not increase in money terms in 1976-77. Nobody, not even the Government, is suggesting this. I submit that it is a confidence trick to tell workers that tax indexation is a reason why they should not have full wage indexation. They should be told the truth. 
Even with tax indexation, not to mention indirect tax increases which are inevitable to fill the $ 1,300m gap, to which I will advert a little later on  Mr Lynch  's story, the Government proposes a fall in the worker's standard of living. We must add to this the fact that the benefits of tax indexation will be more than wiped out, as  Senator Bishop  has pointed out, by the Medibank levy. I fear that the Government's plans to reinforce its attempt to reduce real wages are based on a plan to maintain for a lengthy period a high level of unemployment. This is in face of the fact that there is no persuasive evidence from any modern country that high unemployment does achieve such an end, quite apart from the morals or the humanity of the problem. 
Let us look at this as a technical matter of economic management. I repeat that there is no evidence that high unemployment has any real effect on the level of inflation. Let us look at the period ahead. It is notorious that because of a variety of reasons there has been a very serious drop-off in the number of young people prepared to take up apprenticeships. There will be a decrease over the years ahead in the number of tradesmen. At the present time we do not hear of tradesmen being out of work. The unions with muscle are mostly unions of skilled workers. If they believe that they are not getting a fair go, if they believe that they are being ripped off in some way, the existence of an increasing pool of unemployed will not in any way affect their determination to get what they think is a fair wage. So the existence of this unemployment pool is not only inhumane but also it is bad economics. 
I do not want to use extravagant language in commenting on the Government's aspirations to reduce the forward estimates by $2,600m. There is a little bit of a mystery here. We are not told anything about these forward estimates. It is a secret which is hugged to Treasury's bosom. We do not know whether there is a genuine plan to reduce the forward estimates by $2,600m. However, it is an impressive figure which is plucked out of the air. I understand, and I sympathise with, the Government's efforts to get the deficit down. In passing, while we are talking about the deficit, I refer to what the Melbourne newspaper the  Age  calls the ominous mystery of the missing millions. If we read  Mr Lynch  's statement carefully we find that he gives details of only $ 1,300m in cuts. I do not know what this means. I do not know whether he is just living from day to day and hoping that the statements he makes will have some effect without having any 'real plan to reduce the deficit by $2,600m. 

 Senator Carrick, who had a lot to say about this matter, did not throw any light on it. Maybe the leeway will be made up by some savage indirect tax. However, we are still left in the dark. Despite the extraordinary fact that the Government saw fit to introduce a mini Budget 3 months or 4 months before the real Budget we still do not have the full picture. I suggest that the reason for that is that the Government, as with most other things, still does not know what it is doing. The areas in which these cuts of $ 1,300m will fallwhatever else there is to come- were outlined by  Mr Lynch  and include environment, housing, community development, transport, construction, etc. Unless something else is going to happen, to which I shall refer later, these cuts mean, at least to put it no higher, that there will be no contribution in the year ahead from the public sector to the absorption of the unemployed. Any improvement in the unemployment figures must depend on growth in the private sector. In this matter  Mr Lynch  had a few guardedly optimistic words to say. He stated: 
There are sufficient signs now for believing that economic recovery is under way, though it is at an early stage and will of course require careful nurturing. 
I hope he is right and that there is some light at the end of the tunnel. But there are other voices which give different messages. Notable among these voices is the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd which is not notoriously proLabor or notoriously anti-Government. In its May issue of a bulletin which it puts out about these matters and which was issued before  Mr Lynch  made his statement- before his sermon from the mount- it stated: 
While patchy and uneven recovery is evident in some areas of the economy, future growth prospects are little clearer than they were a year ago. Currently, some forward indicators, such as the employment advertisement series, suggest a further hesitancy may be emerging. This is unfortunate from the Government's point of view as it is having the effect of bringing pressure to bear on the policymakers for an interim announcement indicating their line of thinking in the formulation of the August Budget. 
How right this bulletin was. This is the purpose of  Mr Lynch  's statement. The Government is gambling on a boost in business confidence. We remember that this boost was supposed to emerge like a light on the hill immediately the wicked socialists were thrown out of office and a government of sensible economic management emerged. This was a promise which was not fulfilled. Business confidence turned out to be a much more fragile and difficult thing to stimulate than our saviours of 13 December would have us believe. Of course, this is the reason for this statement. It is an attempt to say to the business community: 'Things will be better in the private sector because we are pruning public sector expenditure in the ways we have announced'. This is an enormous gamble. There is no evidence that it will work. 
There is another possibility that we have to take into account. Maybe this whole grand design of a reduction in public spending is all a sham. The whole plan to boost the confidence of the private sector by appearing to cut back public expenditure may turn out to be a snare and a delusion. We will know more about this after the Premiers Conference in June. As was touched on by  Senator Grimes,  if the Government cuts back its payments to the States, for example in specific purpose grants, while allowing them to place their own levies on income tax- nothing that the architect of the new federalism,  Senator Carrick,  has said today or on any other occasion indicates that that is not what is involved in the Government's scheme-State income taxes could substantially increase and finance what would really amount to a transfer of spending functions to the States rather than an overall reduction in Federal and State spending. 
Similarly, if the Australian Loan Council were to agree that the States could make up for the cuts imposed on them by the Commonwealth by raising loans in the market, a cut in the Federal deficit would not result in any reduction in total public sector demand for resources. This would be a real thimble and pea trick in the best traditions of Fraserian political morality. We would then be treated to the spectacle of  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Lynch  boasting of their fiscal responsibility and pointing to their healthily reduced deficit. But overall there would be no real reduction in public spending. In fact, there might be an overall increase. I hope that I am wrong; I hope that I am being over-suspicious. I hope that the Government does not have this in mind. But having watched it in its brief but far from glorious performance so far, I fear that we may be on the verge of being sold such a pup. The whole exercise may well turn out to be just a bad joke. Having persuaded a majority of the people last year that the Labor Government was so bad that anything else must be better, they got away with a real confidence trick. They really have no idea of how to turn on the lights. As I said earlier, they have stumbled around in the dark trying to find the switch. 
Their business supporters and the community generally began to get restive. That has been demonstrated by, among other things, the result of the New South Wales election, which I know came as a real kick in the teeth to the architect of the new federalism,  Senator Carrick,  who was prepared to bet me on the day before the election that nothing remotely like that could be possible. We all know that  Mr Peacock  learned a little about the facts of life when he attended a business luncheon in Melbourne some weeks ago, hoping that everybody would be scratching his back and telling him what a wonderful light turning-on government the coalition had become, only to find that the attitude of the assembled gathering was quite different. He found himself with his guard up, attempting to ward off the blows of business, this business which was so suddenly to become confident with the return of a new government and the turning out of the wicked socialists. The magical return of business confidence just did not occur, and  Mr Fraser  was then in a dilemma. He had played Churchill to the Australian people, promising them blood, toil, tears and sweat, playing the tough man, only to find that the net result was that he was undermining consumer confidence. If people were promised such a grim future they were not going to open up their pocket books and go out and buy refrigerators and television sets. 
After a while the Treasury had to convince  Mr Fraser  that he had to jawbone the Australian people into buying consumer goods. That was when he gave his famous message that the Budget and the financial plans he had ahead would not be hard on the Australian people, they would be hard only on the Government. This reminds me of a famous remark of  Sir Robert  Menzies who said that, contrary to public opinion, the Government has no money of its own.  Mr Fraser,  with the quaint household economics with which he sometimes regales us, seemed to think that he could persuade us that the fiscal measures he had in mind would be hurtful to him, hurtful to  Mr Lynch,  hurtful to  Senator Carrick,  but would be gentle on the pocket so that people should go out and buy. Unfortunately, this naive attempt to jawbone the public into disregarding his previous Churchillian warnings is not working either, hence the Lynch package. That is the real reason we were regaled with this hotchpotch the other night. I am afraid that this package reminds me of one of those packages where you peel off layer after layer of wrapping, only to find there is something very small inside. 
-My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  in his capacity as Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Is he in a position to tell the Senate the current estimate of the percentage of personal income tax collections which will be paid in 1976-77 to the States as a whole and to local government as a whole? 
-My decent, wholesome question is addressed to  Senator Carrick  in all of his manifold and confused capacities. The honourable senator will recall that the constant theme of Liberal criticism of the Whitlam Government - 
Minister, through you,  Mr President,  in his official and political capacity. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Prime Minister given directions to the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board that the staff ceilings are to be stretched to the extent of allowing the appointment of an additional 270 public servants to work on rural reconstruction in the dairy industry. 
Is the Prime Minister prepared to consider giving a direction that staff ceilings should be reviewed in the Aboriginal Employment Section of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, in view of the fact that the unemployment level among Aboriginals has reached 30 per cent, or roughly six times the national average. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. By way of preface I refer to a statement made by the Assistant Commissioner of the Australia Police, Superintendent J. Davies, in respect of the letter bombs which were sent to  Mr Fraser, Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and  Sir John  Kerr during the course of the last Federal election.  Mr Davies  was reported as stating on 20 November last year that there would be an 'all-out law enforcement effort to find the culprit'. It will be recalled also that on 19 November last the Australian Postal Commission offered a $20,000 reward for evidence leading to the conviction of the person who sent the letter bombs. I ask the Minister: As nearly a year has elapsed since these events and in view of the widely held belief at the time that the letter bombs were not intended to harm those to whom they were sent, since notoriously such personages do not open their own mail, but to harm the Labor Party, has there been any outcome of the 'all-out law enforcement effort to find the culprit', or was the matter quietly dropped after the election? 
-Seeing that the matters of age, fitness, sport and things like that are in the air, I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. By way of preface I remind the Minister of the headlines which were accorded the Prime Minister's statement on 27 July this year that the Federal Government would hold an official inquiry into Australia's showing at the Olympic Games in Montreal. The Minister responsible for this area of government,  Mr Newman,  also got headlines on the same day for his announcement that he intended to call a meeting of the Australian 
Sports Council soon after the return of the Australian Olympic team and his promise to 'examine the proper role of the Commonwealth in assisting national sports organisations'. A very alert senator on the other side of the chamber,  Senator Rae,  asked  Senator Carrick  on 13 October what, if anything, had been done to honour these promises, and  Senator Carrick  gave a waffling, non-committal reply. My question is: Can the Minister now tell the Senate whether anything has been done to honour these promises; or is this just another case of a Fraser breach of promise? 
I see nothing sinister or suspicious in the intentions of this Bill. I can see perfectly clearly that a government can be confronted by a situation such as this when it has to assert the legal sovereignty of our courts, indeed of our nation, quite suddenly. I should have thought- and I detect in the second reading speech a suspicion on the part of the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)-  that it would have been possible for us to rely on our courts to assert the limitations on the extra-territorial operation of the United States anti-trust laws which is spelt out more definitely in this Bill 
I think that the United States would have no real opportunity and no real chance of asserting the claims which the Westinghouse Corporation is purporting to assert in these proceedings but I think that it is high time that the Government of Australia had something to say about its notion of these limitations on extra-territorial operation of the United States anti-trust laws. It is high time we had that attitude codified in detail. This Bill has obviously been hurriedly conceived and drafted. Probably the real trouble with clause 4(2) is that this is an attempt to have some sort of saver; that it concedes that every possible contingency may not be covered; and that, therefore, the Attorney-General is not to be penalised or in any way prejudiced by any sort of procedural weaknesses in any actions that he takes to prevent the action of the Westinghouse Corporation from succeeding. But I think that it is necessary for this to be spelt out in detail at a later stage. 
A reasonable safeguard, which was suggested by  Senator Keeffe,  is that the Bill should have a limited operation in order to give the Government and the draftsmen an opportunity to consider this matter in greater detail and greater definition. I suggest to the Government that it should accept a suggestion from the Opposition that clause 2 be amended so as to read- I am not insistent on the terms- that this Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent and shall be operative until 30 June 1977. This would give the Government an opportunity to consider this whole situation in greater detail and to look into the whole philosophy of the extra-territorial operation of anti-trust legislation, including our own, so that a Bill might be shaped in greater liesure and with greater attention to all the details and implications. I commend to the Government's attention that it should consider such an amendment. 
I would point out in relation to the matter raised by  Senator Steele  Hall that this Parliament has done everything which is within its competence in relation to appeals to the Privy Council. The only appeals which survive to the Privy Council are within the providence of the State governments. Therefore, the Federal Attorney-General could not assert any powers in respect of the production of documents before the Privy Council. This would be a matter necessarily within the competence of the States. So it is a matter which we do not even have to consider. 
-Because there are appeals to the Privy Council only from State Supreme Courts. 
-Not within the Federal jurisdiction. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman Order! Senator James McClelland has the call. 
I am at a loss to understand the argument or the hypothetical point that is being put forward by 

 Senator Steele Hall. I take it that he is referring specifically to clause 4 (2). 
-The powers and the limitation of the powers on the Federal Attorney-General are confined within the present law with respect to appeals to the Privy Council. The only appeals to the Privy Council which are now operative are appeals from the Supreme Courts of the States. The jurisdiction of the Federal Attorney-General does not operate in that field. The matter seems to me to be entirely academic. 
-This Act would be subject to the provisions of all Acts that are operative in the Commonwealth. This Act would not supersede the present law which limits the power of appeal to the Privy Council to appeals from the decisions of the State Supreme Courts. I do not think there would be any doubt about the interpretation that the Privy Council or the High Court would put upon it. But if there is a doubt about it- I have conceded in the argument I put that this is a Bill conceived in hasteunderstandably, without any guilt or blame being attached to the Government, these are things that the Government should look at. I accept  Senator Durack  's undertaking that the Government will look at the details of this Bill. If there are any of these shortcomings which  Senator Steele  Hall,  Senator Cavanagh, Senator Keeffe  and I have suggested might arise, the Government will iron them out. 
There is nothing sinister or suspicious in the Bill. It is designed to meet a sudden emergency. I think it is a matter in which the goodwill of the various sides of politics should operate. After all, the whole spirit of the Bill represents an assertion of the sovereignty of the Australian Parliament as against attempts of encroachment and assertions of extra-territorial power by other countries. It is not anything to which, as far as I can see, our side of politics could object. If the legislation is deficient in certain details, I accept  Senator Durack  's assurance that those minute matters of punctilio will be attended to in the course of time. 
At the outset of my brief remarks I should like to express my sympathy for my friend, the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton,  at having had today's shoddy little exercise tossed into his lap. It is well known that he is, and always has been, a firm opponent of devaluation. We can recall him in answer to a question in this place a few short weeks ago stating positively: 'Devaluation is just not on'. Yet it must have been rather painful for him today to have to stand up and deliver this almost inarticulate apologia- one of the most pathetic documents that I can recall being put down in this place in the lime thai I have been here. Far from facing up to the fact that it represents an admission of failure of all the policies of this Government which was going to turn on the lights, it blames Labor collectively, it blames Labor individually and it suggests that somehow or other a man, who had ceased to be Treasurer and was not exercising any fiscal power in this country, by predicting devaluation was in some way to blame for the present position. It goes to the extreme extent, as pointed out by  Senator Walsh,  of suggesting that a 2.2 per cent increase in wages allowed by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in some way or other forced the Government's hand and left it with no alternative but to take this drastic step, when, as  Senator Walsh  points out, the Government had always bargained for a 12 per cent increase in wages in the ensuing year. We have the dramatic picture of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  tearing up the note which was handed to him on the plane telling him that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission had committed this heinous act of giving a 2.2 per cent rise. 
One thing has to be said about this announcement. It marks a watershed in the history of this Government. Anybody who has been in the Parliament for a while is familiar with the tired, old political game of blaming one 's opponents for all the ills of society. The Labor Government did that during its first year in office when its difficulties mounted. We constantly pointed to what we called the irresponsible Budget that had been introduced by  Mr McMahon  in 1972 in a desperate attempt to stave off defeat. There was certainly something in that charge. Naturally, in the way of politicians, we kept that one going as long as we could. There is no doubt that the present Government has been able to get away with the story to the public up to now that all the problems of the country are due to the fact that it inherited this awful load of burdens from what it said was the most inefficient or incompetent govern ment in Australia 's history. I must say that up to now the present Government, despite its failures and its inability to deliver the goods, has held up remarkably well in the polls but I think we can safely predict that those days are past and that from now on the Government will be judged on its own performance or lack of it. 
-The party is over, as my colleague points out. I have never been one to suggest that Labor did not make any errors. I freely concede that 1974 was a disastrous year in that it saw an increase of some 28 per cent in average wages, which is more than any modern economy can possibly bear. However, I maintain- I have always maintainedthat during the last half of last year, as  Senator Scott  was generous enough to concede, we had the ship of state steered in the correct direction. That is supported by some of the figures. The inflation rate had come down from a disastrous level of 17.6 per cent to about 13 per cent at the time we were tossed out of office. Wage increases in 1975, compared to the 28 per cent for 1974 which I have mentioned, were of the order of 12 per cent. As  Senator Wriedt  pointed out, the reason why our term was cut short, the reason for the disgraceful events at the end of last year, was not the mistakes we had committed in the past but that we were beginning to look like a good and responsible government. I believe that if we had been allowed to remain in office the country would not be in the mess it is in today. It would not have been necessary for the Australian people to have been dragged through the confidence trick put over them last year that the present Government somehow or other had a magic wand in its equipment and knew of some cures to our economic ills. 
I find one thing terrifying in the document that has been read to us today. Most of it is pathetic and woeful but hidden in a few threatening lines is the promise of an awful confrontation in the year ahead. No matter what can be said about the alleged benefits of devaluation, one thing which cannot be gainsaid is that devaluation will increase inflation which we have been told by this Government is its main target. We have constantly been told by this Government that if we cannot beat inflation we are no good and we are doing nothing for the country. This document implicitly concedes that this change of policy is an inflationary one. How is it proposed to counter the ills of a mounting inflation? How does the Government propose to counter the fact that the public will see that it has been sold a pup and that the Government does not have an answer to inflation? The answer is to be found not only in this document but also in various statements of the Prime Minister in the recent period. He will try to take it out on the work force. 
Now the consensus has been destroyed, the consensus which the Labor Government built up with great difficulty, all that is left to this confrontationist Prime Minister is confrontation.  His  package for the unions and the workforce generally will be to say to them: 'You will have to pay more for your goods because of what we have done to the currency but we ask you to take less in pay because that is the only way we can keep prices down. We will also ask you, in order to cure unemployment and the stagnant economy, to consume more.' This is a hopelessly illogical package- higher prices, a decrease in real wages and a plea to people to consume more. If this Government stands naked with as little as that to offer the people it is confessing its bankruptcy. It is confessing that all the trauma we went through last year, all the damage that was done to the people's faith in the democratic system, all the bitterness and polarisation it produced in society, which will not go away no matter what the Government may ask, was for nought. After 12 months of total domination of the Parliament- Government members do not have to look over their shoulders at a hostile upper House the way we had to- after 12 months of being given every opportunity, the Government now has to come before the Australian people and say: 'We have done nothing to solve the problems. We are back to square one. The situation is worse than when we took over. This is what you have for going through the events of last year.' 
I concede that the Government had reached a point where it probably had no other course but to devalue. But who was responsible for that? The Government has been in charge of the economy for the last 12 months. The excuse that it was all due to the Labor Government will not wear with the public any more. I believe that we are now facing a much more difficult year, 2 years or 3 years, than would have been the case if the Labor Government had been allowed to see out its term of office. I predict- I hope I am proved wrong- that next year will see a further shattering of the consensus without which parliamentary democracy cannot be conducted, that is, that there will be a confrontation between this Government and the unions in an attempt to make the unions bear the burden of the Government's errors. I hope I am proved wrong but I see the document that was put down today as being intrinsically a very threatening document. 
The Opposition enthusiastically supports this Bill, which is quite a simple Bill. The Republic of Nauru, a small island with some 7000 people in the Pacific Ocean, was originally a mandated territory which gained its independence in 1968. Prior to that there was provision in its legal structure for appeals to our High Court and this, of course, lapsed on the Republic gaining its independence. The Bill gives effect to an agreement which has been made between the Government of Australia and the Government of the Republic of Nauru relating to appeals to the High Court of Australia. It is quite a tribute from the people of Nauru that they desire to have the benefit of our highest and most prestigious court. There is no question of Australia trying to maintain any neo-colonial domination over Nauru or anything like that. One of the articles of the Agreement provides that it comes into force on the date on which the 2 governments exchange notes notifying each other that their respective constitutional and other requirements necessary to give effect to this 
Agreement have been complied with- that is, when this Bill passes through the Australian Parliament and the Nauru Parliament- and there is a safeguard that the Agreement shall continue in force until the expiration of the ninetieth day after the day on which either government has given to the other government notice in writing of its desire to terminate the Agreement. So there is no suggestion of Australia wishing to retain any influence if the Nauruan Government gives some indication that it wishes to sever the tie. Therefore, there is no attempt by the Australian Government to maintain any domination. On the contrary, this is a fraternal gesture to a Pacific neighbour and we support the Bill. 
In relation to the first of these Bills, namely the Federal Court of Australia Bill, I move: 
At end of motion, add-', but the Senate is of opinion that the Federal Court of Australia Bill 1976 should provide a Federal court with original jurisdiction in all matters refereed to in section 75 of the Constitution and laws made by the Parliament'. 
Although the Opposition does not oppose this or any of the other Bills being dealt with in this cognate debate, I point to what I see as a basic illogicality in the reasons given by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech for limiting the field of the exercise of original jurisdiction in the proposed Federal Court. To illustrate my point, I wish to quote a few passages from the Minister's speech. These are not exactly in order, but I will refer to them in the order which makes my point. After dealing with the differences between this Bill and the proposal to set up a Superior Court which was introduced into the last Parliament by the Labor Government, the Minister said: 
The present Bill therefore differs from previous Bills relating to a Commonwealth Superior Court in that the original jurisdiction that is to be exercised by the proposed Federal Court of Australia will be limited initially to that now exercised by the Industrial Court and the Bankruptcy Court . . . 
In another part of his second reading speech he said: 
The Government believes that only where there are special policy or perhaps historical reasons for doing so should original federal jurisdiction be vested in a federal court. 
In another part of his second reading speech he said: 
The Court now proposed will not, as would previous Bills to establish a Superior Court that have been introduced into the Parliament, perform judicial functions that can better be performed by State courts or create jurisdictional problems of a kind that might delight constitutional lawyers but only add to the hazards of litigation for the parties concerned. 
It will be observed that the statements that I have read from the Minister's second reading speech are merely bald, unsupported assertions- not arguments- in favour of the limitation of the original jurisdiction of the proposed Federal Court and we have been asked to accept it merely on the say so of the Minister that there is ample justification for this limitation of the original jurisdiction to be exercised by this Court. Let us set those statement against another statement in the Minister's second reading speech, that is, the statement which reads: 
As conceived by the Labor Government, it- 
That is the conception which the Minister admits has a very august parent in the person of the former Attorney-General and present Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick-  would have removed from State courts the bulk of the federal jurisdiction exercised by those courts and greatly weakened the status of those courts and the quality of the work dealt with by them. 
To summarise, the argumentation behind this limitation of the original jurisdiction of the Federal Court seems to be that, out of deference to the preservation of the status of the State courts, much original federal jurisdiction which properly belongs to it will be withheld from the Federal Court. I cannot see how it is that this limitation does not strike some sort of blow at the status of the new Federal Court. 
I do not know whether this is just an illustration of the hold which the mystique of federalism has on this Government. There might be another reason. It is almost impossible for the Government to explain why the Australian Labor Party's proposal for a Superior Court was rejected. As I have pointed out, the Minister said that the concept of a Superior Court was developed by the Labor Government from the original proposal by  Sir Garfield  Barwick. The Government is stuck with considerable difficulty in explaining why a measure which the Labor Party introduced and which was rejected by the Senate now has been introduced by it, unless of course it has changed the concept in some way to make it look as though it is a totally different concept. It bears some sort of relationship to its conduct in respect of Medibank. When we proposed a levy to finance Medibank- presumably because we proposed it- the proposition was thrown out in this chamber. But when the Liberal and National Country Parties gained office they introduced a levy to finance Medibank. 
It was suggested that the reason or perhaps a subsidiary reason why the Liberal-National Country Party forces did not like the idea of our introducing a Superior Court measure and perhaps wanted to defer it until they could introduce a measure of their own was that they might have some regard to the appointment of the judges of this Federal Court. I will not impute any such unworthy motives to them. I merely point out the illogicality of a Federal Parliament being so tender to the status of State courts, and, in doing so, depriving a federal court of what would seem to me to be its logical ambit of jurisdiction, which should be to cover the whole field of federal jurisdiction not already covered by another federal court. 
The Opposition is not opposing these Bills. The others, which I will not deal with, merely confer jurisdiction which now belongs to other courts onto this Federal Court and relate to other subsidiary matters, such as the remuneration of judges. They are matters which do not really call for any disputation. I should like to say in conclusion and merely in passing that I happen to know a fair bit about the history of proposals for the establishment of a Superior Court. For example, I happen to know that a prominent Sydney barrister accepted a judgeship on the Commonwealth Industrial Court, whose jurisdiction is now to be absorbed in this Federal Court, on a promise that he would soon be elevated to the chief judgeship of the Superior Court which was then in the pipeline. This proposition has had a very chequered career. As is pointed out in the Minister's second reading speech, it was first spawned by  Sir Garfield  Barwick and then spurned by him. A Bill was introduced in 1968 by  Mr Justice  Bowen, as he now is, but it was not proceeded with and then, as I have said, the proposal introduced by the Labor Government was thrown out by the Senate. I cannot help reflecting upon how much better off the country would be if the Superior Court had been established at the time  Sir Garfield  Barwick was talking about it and the promise had been kept to a man who later became Governor-General of Australia. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is the amendment seconded? 
-We regard the proposed amendment as being unobjectionable but superfluous. A close reading of clause 5 (2) (d) would seem to suggest to me at least that the people whom  Senator Kilgariff  wishes to protect or to have excluded from the scrutiny of the Ombudsman are adequately covered. I would appreciate some clarification from him as to what it is that he fears, failing the insertion of this proposed amendment. 
I share the enthusiasm of my colleagues over the belated arrival of this important piece of legislation in this chamber.  Senator Missen  has reminded us that it was the next matter on the notice paper when the thunderclap of 1 1 November  took  everything off the notice paper. This overdue measure to give protection to the ordinary citizen against excesses of the bureaucracy or of government departments has been delayed by the events of last year, which, I suggest, more and more people are beginning to realise have had such a disastrous effect on the solution of the problems facing this country. 
I share  Senator Missen  's regrets that the actions of Ministers will be excluded- at least for the present- from the scrutiny of the ombudsman. I see no philosophical justification for that, even though I acknowledge that my own Party did not believe when it introduced its legislation last year that the conduct of Ministers should be scrutinised. I am for more and more open government and I believe that Ministers should not try to conceal anything from the public or should not have a right to the protection that they are still given under this Bill. A hypothetical matter that comes to mind is this: Let us suppose that the Commissioner for Community Relations was enthusiastically and diligently exploring and investigating allegations of discrimination against Aborigines- for instance, in some of the areas of New South Wales where that is most endemic and most notorious, such as Wee Waa, Moree and places like that- and that complaints were made by Aborigines that no action was forthcoming and that the real, if I can use a nonracist term, negro in the woodpile turned out to be an instruction from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that the Commissioner for Community Relations was to run dead in this area because of some electoral pressures. The most enthusiastic action by the Commissioner for Community Relations then would be nullified. The man whose conduct really should be being investigated by the Ombudsman would be the Minister himself. I say that as a hypothetical situation, but it highlights a shortcoming in this legislation. 
It was said by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech and it has been echoed by most of the speakers that it probably will turn out that only a small proportion of the complaints dealt with by the Ombudsman are matters of substance. That may or may not be the case. I hope it is right because if it is right it means that our bureaucracy is doing its job properly and that there is little to complain of. However, the fact that there does exist in the public's mind a feeling that there are things to complain of is what makes it common ground with all parties that there has to be an ombudsman. The matter is not so much the rectification of grievances as a feeling in the public that, as the Minister said, there is available an external and impartial investigator to inquire into the matter. The strength of the Ombudsman's work lies in the independence and impartiality of his investigation. It is important to bear in mind, as has been pointed out by the Minister, that the ombudsman's power is not a power to do anything to rectify a grievance but a power to bring it to public light. As he has said, the only sanction that the Ombudsman has, which is a very powerful one, is in his power to report to this Parliament where a grievance is not put right to his satisfaction. The Minister also pointed out, and every  speaker  has highlighted this point, that the operations of his office must be carried out in an essentially personal manner. 
It is not so much the legislation which is before this Parliament that should exercise the minds of the legislators. It is more important, as  Senator Missen  and other speakers have said, that, especially in the first instance, an impeccable appointment should be made because the worth of this legislation ultimately will depend entirely upon the standing in the eyes of the community of the man appointed to do the job. If there is any suspicion that his role is tainted in any way by a concern on the part of those who appoint him to have him look after the government's interests, cover up scandals or be subject to some sort of direction from the Executive, it will be not only not an advance in democratic procedures but also a positive setback because it will diminish the already fragile respect which more and more people have in democratic institutions since the events of last year. 
I say that especially because of a strong rumour which is current in legal and political circles, especially in the city of Sydney, that there is already a governmental pea for this job. This man- a prominent lawyer and a former member of this Parliament- has been active in the past few months as a propagandist on behalf of the Government's side of politics in respect of the constitutional events of last year and has made several quite vicious attacks upon the Whitlam Government. He has attended public meetings, he has attended seminars and he has contributed to newspapers and learned journals taking up this highly partisan position. I hope I am wrong. I hope there is no truth in the rumour. The man to whom I am referring is  Mr Edward  St John, Q.C. I say that I have quoted his name entirely to illustrate what the Government will have to be particularly careful about. I would say that a man of his performance is disqualified in the public's eye not because of any deficiency of talent or character but merely because if he is appointedI am not suggesting that if he were appointed he would not attempt to act conscientiously and impartially- there would be a doubt in the public's eye. 
It is more important even than in the case of a judicial appointment that the man who is appointed as an ombudsman should be totally untained by any suggestion of partiality towards any side of politics. I stress therefore that the most important aspect of this legislation is care in the choice of the Ombudsman. I agree with  Senator Missen  that he does not necessarily have to be a lawyer. In fact, I would prefer that he should not be a lawyer. The most important qualification that he should have if he is to be able to carry out his job in a way that will satisfy the public is that he is the sort of man who will look after the public's interest and not the interests of any Party and that he is a man whose record places him totally above Party controversy. 
It is reassuring to know that a fastidious aesthete like  Senator Jessop  has found himself in some position of criticism of the super Philistine,  Sir Henry  Bland. The leaks which have emerged- I do not know how they happened- in the last few days and which attribute to  Sir Henry  such expressions as 'the Nips', and 'the Russkies' seem to cast some doubt on the wisdom of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in selecting this man to head one of our more important cultural institutions. Perhaps that will give him some ground for reconsideration, such as he has had in recent days about the extent of his devaluation. I do not know whether he will have an opportunity to dispose of  Sir Henry.  I think I detected in the tone of  Senator Jessop  's remarks that he was not completely sold on the wisdom of having  Sir Henry  in charge of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
However that may be, it is reassuring also to hear from  Senator Young  that the Government acknowledges the fact that the air waves belong to the people. It is a matter of common knowledge in this town, this little closed community where nothing is secret for very long, that people such as  Mr Jim  Malone, the head of FACTSFACTS' is a curious title for an outfit that has little to do with truth- which is the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations, and a man named Des Foster, who is the head of an organisation called FARB, which is the Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters, and  Mr Kerry  Packer, who probably does not need to be designated, have been in and out of the corridors of power in the last few weeks, whereas people demonstrating on behalf of the ABC and on behalf of the survival of an elected commissioner of the ABC such as Marius Webb have to take their place out on the lawn. As far as I know, entrance to the corridors of power is not nearly as easy for them as it is for  Mr Jim  Malone,  Mr Des  Foster and  Mr Kerry  Packer. Nonetheless, I applaud the fact that the Government has been sensible enough to succumb to some sort of pressure and that it appears to have resiled from its original intention to sack Marius Webb and to hand pick a bunch of stooges to run the ABC. The Bill before us, while not all that we would want it to be, is not nearly as bad as it originally was intended tobe. 
The legislation obviously was provoked originally by the most absurd prejudices of this paranoid Government. I can recall that during the election campaign one of the more primitive members of the coalition- a man named Nixon, who I believe is the Minister for something or other- was sounding off about the necessity to gag the ABC during the campaign. Fortunately, those who are a little senior to him in the scheme of things in this primitive Government did not fall for that proposition. Nonetheless, all of the prejudices of this Government in relation to the ABC emerged during the election campaign. Put simply, these people opposite believe that they are so entitled to favourable treatment from the media that any section of the media which acts with some sort of objectivity is accused of left wing bias. That is really the attitude of this Government towards the ABC. These people opposite believe that, because they do not own the ABC, because they cannot have the sort of tendentious treatment of the news and of opinion that they are guaranteed from people such as Murdoch and the Packers, the ABC is their enemy and therefore it has to be nobbled. 
Fortunately- I pay tribute to the more intelligent people on the other side of politicsthis has not been able to triumph. Even though  Mr Fraser  has attempted to prevent leaks from coming out of his caucus- we all know that that is one of the more King Canutish propositions of politicians- we all know that the back benchers of his Party have prevented him from getting away with the sort of nobbling of the ABC that he would have liked. Just because Dick Carleton roughed him up one night, he thought that the ABC had to be treated as an enemy. I have been roughed up by Dick Carleton. Any politician who goes on television has to be prepared to have a rough handling. That is what it is all about. As Harry Truman said, if you cannot stand the heat keep out of the kitchen. These people opposite feel so entitled to be mollycoddled and protected and to be handled with kid gloves by all of the media that when they get a bit of a roughing-up they regard that aspect of the media as their enemies. This is the real reason why they wanted to nobble and hobble the ABC. Fortunately, to the credit of their back benchers, this legislation does not emerge in the form in which they originally intended it. This is some sort of a triumph for democracy, even in a period when democracy is in grave peril. 
One or two aspects of the legislation fill me with misgivings. For instance, I would concede that the parliamentary draftsman is busy and cannot come up with a totally detailed Bill at this stage, but I always fear any governmental measures which claim the privilege of being transitional. I think of all the temporary structures throughout the capital cities of Australia. I remember that for one period during my law studies I lived in a temporary dwelling in Paddington in Sydney which had been built as a temporary dwelling in order to increase the accommodation available to the troops who were housed in the main troop centre in Paddington at the turn of the last century. It had remained as a temporary dwelling, and I was living in it ISO years after it was built. I hope that the statement this Bill is transitional in nature is not just an alibi and that the Government will get around to spelling out the details which will give flesh to this skeleton. 
I fear that the Government really has not made up its mind about what it wants. It wants to know just how much it can get away with in interfering with the media in this country. It does not have to worry about the printed media. It knows that it has that sewn up. But this transitional thing, I fear, may be some sort of an alibi for keeping things in reserve in order for the Government to be able either not to do things it should do or to do things it should not do. 
More even than that, I fear this talk about selfregulation. This idea that FACTS and FARBthese organisations that represent the private media in this country- are in some way capable of self-regulation is something that fills me with horror. As my colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who had intimate dealings with these people over the period that he was Minister for the Media, knows these are not people who think in terms of any responsibility to the community. As  Senator Melzer  said, how they have fallen down on their responsibilities to provide anything in the way of programs for children. How they have perverted and resiled from any responsibility for educating the young or even giving reasonable entertainment for the young. How they cheated regularly on advertising time. They were always cribbing. They were always having to be rapped over the knuckles for cheating on the 1 1 minutes, 12 minutes or 13 minutes. As far as they are concerned, it is like the attitude that once was attributed to Lord Thomson- who, by the way, was a great man in the media compared with the Packers or anyone like thatnamely, that the news was something that you sandwiched between the advertising columns. What these people who are talking about selfregulation would like to do is to give us 40 minutes of trash sandwiched between 20 minutes of advertising every hour. 
-And be licensed to do it. These are the people who are seriously being talked about as being capable of self-regulation. In my estimation from studying their form they are not to be considered as people capable of self-regulation. I hope that this public inquiry which is to be held to determine whether they should be capable of selfregulation will expose them for the charletans that they are and that they will not be given any more freedom to exploit the Australian public. 
We have been served ill by commercial television stations. One of our commentators said a few years ago- this was when it was only 16 years old- we have not had so much 16 years of television as one year repeated 16 times. Television gets no better. Television gets worse all the time. I have no faith in the self-regulatory intentions ofthe people whose aim is merely to make money out of trash. I hope that this television inquiry into self-regulation will expose the people in FACTS and FARB, and all the rest of them for the people they are, people who have no concern for the public welfare whatsoever. 
If there is one thing that the Whitlam Labor Government did, and which would not have happened if there had not been a Whitlam Government, it was to introduce frequency modulation radio in this country. The forces which fought against the introduction of FM broadcasting in this country were very formidable and they were finally overthrown. We now have FM broadcasting which we would never have got if it had been left to a conservative government which has no interest in innovation, which has no interest in the improvement of the cultural and aesthetic opportunities in this country. I think that one of the great battles that will have to be fought in this country in the years ahead is the preservation of independent FM radio stations against the inroads of commercial stations which would like to grab all the FM frequencies and transform them into purveyors of the sort of trash that they give us on AM radio. 
The same goes for public radio. This is a sphere I believe in which there is more demand for public vigilance than in almost any other sphere. I fear that this Government is amenable to the influences of the Philistines who want to monopolise our air waves. I fear that that is what was behind the campaign against the ABC which has already foundered, I believe, due to public vigilance and due to the activities of the ABC staff and of supporters of the Liberal Party who just would not wear this Philistine crusade. I hope that when the further and better particulars that we are supposed to get to make up for the transitional nature of this legislation come down that they will be thoroughly debated in this place and that everybody- and I do not mean only the people on our side of politics; I also mean people on the conservative side of politics- will be vigilant to ensure that the inroads which the Philistines of the coalition- by that I mean the Nixons and the people like him who really want all the media to be captive- to ensure that there will be vigilance on all sides of politics so that the electronic media at least do not become the captives of the people who already own the printed media. 
There was a curiously convoluted illogicality in the reply which the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  gave to  Senator Button.  As I understood him he was saying that there has existed in the Act up till now some requirement on commercial broadcasters to provide adequate and comprehensive programs. I do not think anybody would claim that they satisfy that requirement in the Act. It was constantly claimed in defence of the Broadcasting Control Board that it had fallen down on its job to police that requirement because of some weakness in the powers conferred on the Board. 
I can remember when the Committee to which  Senator Button  adverted was holding its inquiries. It had the  Chairman  of the Broadcasting Control Board,  Mr Miles  Wright, before it on several occasions. He was asked- principally by me-why it was that with this provision in the Act the broadcasters were able to drive a horse and cart through the Act and were obviously not providing adequate and comprehensive programs. He took the curious view, especially in relation to radio programs, that provided in a given area there were adequate and comprehensive programs- if rock music was coming from one station and high class music from another- this constituted for an area some sort of adequate and comprehensive broadcasting. Nonetheless, we did not get adequate and comprehensive broadcasting, from either commercial television or commercial radio stations, even when this provision was in the Act. 
Now  Senator Carrick  tells us that they are going to hold an inquiry which almost inevitably will result in even more stringent requirements for adequate and comprehensive services. I take it that he envisages a fairly lengthy inquiry. At least I hope he envisages a lengthy inquiry so that the matter will be looked at in the way that  Senator Ryan  has suggested. But in the meantime we will have this hiatus when the message will go out to these custodians of popular broadcasting: 'Bob's your uncle'. I very much fear that if they are allowed 6 months, 12 months, or 2 years to establish their own notion of standards they will be immovable, no matter what emerges from the inquiry. They are a very powerful lobby and I know that their philosophy of using the air waves of the nation merely to make money without any regard for the public interest has many sympathisers on the Government side of politics. 
I fear that if we allow this hiatus and the broadcasters are allowed to establish their standards before the public inquiry is finished we shall get their standards all right and they will be worse than they have been up to now. 
I listened with some astonishment to  Senator Cotton's  speech earlier in this debate, the message of which seemed to be as summed up in the words of the poet Browning: God's in his Heaven; all's right with the world.  Senator Cotton  said, in effect, that the growth of the economy was up, inflation was coming down and that perhaps there was a little bit of a snag in relation to unemployment. It will be recalled that the alleged justification for the conservatives of this country, including their faithful servant at Yarralumla, tearing up the rules in 1975 was to give the people a chance to elect a government which had the answers to our economic ills. This turned out to be the greatest confidence trick in Australia's history. The members of the Liberal Party had no economic plan. They merely wanted to get their snouts back into the trough. As a member of the staff of one of the present Ministers said to a member of my staff at the time: 'You are beginning to look too good; we will have to get rid of you'. I remind the present Government that the threadbare claim that it is taking more time to get the country out of the mess which we are supposed to have created will not hold water much longer with the public as recent gallup polls make quite clear. I point out also that in our last 6 months in office we had reduced the annual inflation rate from 1 7.6 per cent to something like 13 per cent. 
Despite what  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Walters  attempt to establish in the matter of this Government's record on inflation, there is no evidence available that this Government has reduced the rate of inflation at all. The only way in which it can manipulate the present annual rate of inflation is by omitting mention of the December consumer price index figures which are being held back deliberately until the Western Australian elections are over.  Senator Walters  in some odd, almost incomprehensible attempt to manipulate the inflation rate, spoke of the artificially low Medibank quarter when we were in office. When we have the December consumer price index figures- that is after the Western Australian elections- presumably we will hear about the artificially high Medibank figure. But all of these artificial figures are due to governmental policies and governmental actions. There is nothing artificial about them. They are man made. They are a result of the actions of government. I suppose that devaluation was also artificial.  Senator Walters  sought to exculpate the Government. She and  Senator Cotton  evidently blame the Australian Labor Party for devaluation. Apparently it was all caused by some statement by  Mr Hayden.  The gullibility of the community is not such that that sort of misrepresentation will alter the trend of the gallup figures in favour of the Government. 
The position is similar in regard to unemployment. I was most amused by the way in which  Senator Cotton  attempted to manipulate the unemployment figures. He said that in November 1975 when we were in government the percentage of unemployed in the work force was 4.6 per cent. In November 1976 after nearly a year of the coalition Government, that percentage was down to 4.2 per cent. He did not bother to tell us that a month later the unemployment rate had risen to 5.8 per cent. What matters is not the figures for November 1976. What matters is how many people are unemployed at the present time.  Mr Malcolm  Fraser in his policy statement prior to the election referred to the employment creating incentives of his Government's policy when it was elected to office. Now any mention of employment creating initiatives is regarded as dangerous, inflationary talk. It is wicked to attempt to stimulate the economy. We are told that this is merely aggravating inflation. 
Why was not  Mr Fraser  honest enough to tell us that before he was elected? The fact is that  Mr Fraser  and his Government have fallen for the dangerous nonsense of their idol, Milton Friedman, that the fight against inflation necessarily involves a massive increase in unemployment. We need only to point to the performance of the totalitarian government in Chile over the last year which took seriously Milton Friedman's advice. Certainly, inflation was cut from an annual rate of 340 per cent to 180 per cent. But this was done only at the cost of bringing the country's economy almost to a standstill. Almost half of the employable people in Chile are now out of work. This action is something like curing an ingrowing toenail by amputating the leg. This is the sort of advice this Government is following in line with the advice and lucubrations of this great modern pundit, Milton Friedman. Similarly,  Mr Fraser,  when he was talking about wages policy and wooing the electors, said that the Government would support the wage indexation agreement in the present economic circumstances. Now full wage indexation has become a dirty word. Perhaps the alibi is that he was referring to the economic circumstances in which he made his promise. But implicit in his rejection of that promise is an admission that economic circumstances are worse today that they were when we made the promise. Is this due to the fact that we had a Labor Government for 3 years or is it due to the fact that we have an inept successor to the Labor Government? 
I recall that I took part during the election campaign in an interview for the  Monday Conference  program together with the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  on the question of wage indexation. Anybody who reads the transcript will find that we were talking about full wage indexation. The caretaker Government, as it then was, was at pains to persuade the work force that there would be no inroads in to wage indexation. In fact, it was terrified that the success we had in persuading the work force to accept wage indexation would be eroded because there was a great deal of uneasiness in the union movement as to whether merely keeping up with the cost of living constituted wage justice.  Mr Street  had this to say after I had talked about wage indexation and the difficulty of keeping it because of some of the inequities in it: 
I would like to comment on that last statement of the Senator's because he must know that under the caretaker guidelines of the Government we are prohibited from taking initiatives. Now I discussed this matter with my Department, with his previous Department, within 24 hours of getting into the chair, and I impressed on them that under no circumstances must there be any possibility of wage indexation collapsing during the time of this caretaker Government, but our capacity to initiate, as he knows, is very limited. 

 Mr Street was asked by the moderator what he thought of the prospect of wage indexation and how long  Mr Street  thought wage indexation would last. He was asked whether it would last 6 months or a couple of years.  His  answer was: 
I think it will last longer once you have got the other half attached to it, that is the indexation of personal income tax. 
There was the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations giving a guarantee to the people in the work force of this country that not only would full indexation be maintained but it would become more acceptable to them because they would also get tax indexation. Tax cuts have become dirty words. Anybody who suggests anything about tax cuts is sabotaging the Government's efforts to get the economy into good order again.  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Lynch  indicate that the pressure they are getting for tax cuts from their back benchers amounts almost to sabotage of the Government's efforts and that any tax cuts that will be forthcoming will be in the sweet bye and bye. I am prepared to predict here and now that not only will there not be tax indexation in the forthcoming Budget but also the abandonment of that promise will be justified on the basis that times have changed. 
So all the promises that seemed feasible to the Government before it became a government are now being abandoned. The pretext is being advanced that the reason why the Government cannot do these things is that things are worse than it expected. This merely illustrates that not only did the Government not know anything about the true nature of our economy but also it was making bold, brash promises which it had no chance of fulfilling. It is a government without a plan; it is a government that is staggering from one crisis to another. Its only semblance of a wages policy is to mount a continuing attack on wage indexation and attempt to intimidate the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission which, as anybody who understands the Constitution knows, is not an organ for fixing wages, is not an institution for getting an inept government off the hook, but is an institution charged with settling disputes extending beyond the limits of one State. The Government is indignant because the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission will not do exactly as it wants and, with total regard to the state of industrial peace of the country, will not attempt to make inroads into the standard of living of the work force in this country. 
The only policy left to this Government is to attempt to implement a drastic cut in real wages. The people who are to pay for the Government 's usurpation of power, the people who are to pay for the Government's primitive economic doctrines, the people who are to pay for the Government's total ineptitude are the unionists and the people in the work force of this country. I predict that if the Government goes ahead with the proposals that are in the pipeline at present, namely, the amendment of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to introduce this fantastic industrial relations bureau and to insert section 45D into the Trade Practices Act, what this country will face is confrontation and chaos. Any prospect of an improvement in the economy will go right out the window. 
First of all, let us consider this industrial relations bureau. Those who will not learn from the lessons of history are doomed to repeat them. Anybody who knows anything about industrial affairs is aware that in the chaos of 1969 following the metal trades award when a wholesale attempt was made to use the penalty clauses of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the country practically came to a standstill. Finally, the employers recognised that this was a clumsy way of trying to discipline the work force and from then on till today penalties were not availed of by employers. But now we have an attempt by this Government, knowing that the employers will not fall into the trap again, to introduce a third arm of government- this industrial relations bureau, which will take the initiative in imposing penalties.  Mr Fraser  uses the soft word 'consequences '. But the consequences are just as drastic as any used in the past. They include fines, deregistration and even ultimately the gaoling of union officials. Finally, under amended section 45D of the Trade Practices Amendment Act there will be power to impose a fine of $50,000 on individuals who have the temerity to strike or impose black bans in defence of their standard of living. This is either a gigantic bluff or a diversionary tactic- get yourself a scapegoat and people may not notice what a mess you are making of the economy- or it is a confession of bankruptcy by this Government in its attempt to run the economy. The fact is that these matters will not work. I remind the Government of what happened to the British Government under  Mr Heath  when he attempted a similar program. In a short time Britain was reduced to a 3-day week and there were fuel shortages and general chaos. This is the road along which this Government of great economic managers is walking. This is the bluff that it pulled on the Australian people in November 1975. Having no plan, having no program, having no clue about how to run the economy, it is now forced into seeking scapegoats and pushing towards a confrontation with one of the most important sectors of the population. This exposes the total fraudulence of the Government's claims back in November and December 1975. I believe that the Australian people are waking up to the fact that in those months they were sold the greatest confidence trick in Australia's history. No matter how the spokesmen on the other side of the Chamber have tried to manipulate figures and falsify the position today, their bankruptcy is becoming increasingly clear to the Australian people. One thing  Mr Fraser  is going to wish as the year progresses is that life had been a little bit easier for him than, as he tells us, it is supposed to be for the rest of us. 
I hope that  Senator Withers  has at last broken his lifelong habit of not reading the daily newspapers. There is certainly a lot in today's newspapers which might belatedly teach this self-vaunted provincial illiterate a little about the facts of life. In particular I applaud the contribution of my fellow columnist  Senator Rae  in this morning's  Australian  and I commend it to  Senator Withers'  study. I had expected to speak last night in this debate and to say some of the things which  Senator Rae  said so eloquently in this morning's  Australian  but perhaps I can still drive home without any of the inhibitions which  Senator Rae  might feel as a usually loyal Liberal some of the lessons arising from this debate which he sought to give. 
Although I believe that their viewpoint on this legislation is wrong, let me congratulate those opposite who have had the courage of their convictions and have voted against their parties' betrayal of their alleged convictions of 3 years ago. I exclude, of course,  Senator Missen  from such stricture as he has always been consistent on this measure and was not here to take part in the shameful charade of December 1973 when an almost identical Bill was being opposed, especially by  Senator Withers,  for a great array of phoney reasons. I hope to take the smirk off  Senator Withers'  face as I proceed to examine his conduct. I especially congratulate  Senator Martin  on the courage she has shown in being prepared to take some setback in her party hopes m order to take a stand of principle. 
-What was that? Let me hear it. 
I make it clear that the Labor Opposition supports this Bill for the reasons which it advanced in 1973 and 1974 and for other reasons that I shall give. But before elaborating my Party's support for the Bill I should Uke to say something about the conduct of the Government in this matter and especially about the conduct of  Senator Withers,  no matter how unpalatable it may be to him. When the credibility and honesty of a government is at the heart of the ongoing political contest, as it is today, anything which throws some light on whether a government is to be trusted must surely be submitted to rigorous parliamentary examination. In the closing months of 1975 all sorts of pious reasons were given, not the least by the provincial political smarty opposite,  Senator Withers,  as to why the Whitlam Government could not be trusted and had to be replaced by a government which could be trusted. 
Let us examine the trust which can be reposed in a government of which  Senator Withers  is such a prominent member. The other night during the course of the debate when  Senator Withers  made some smirking remark about being a very innocent person, I interjected: 'You are the most cynical man in the Parliament'. My comment was not a sniping comment but my convinced view of  Senator Withers  since my first weeks in this place. That view has been greatly reinforced by the course of this debate. I submit that if honourable senators opposite were free to speak their minds some of  Senator Withers'  own colleagues would speak in the same tones as I nave.  Senator Rae  came very close to it in the remarks published in this morning's  Australian.  Senator Martin,  in what I took to be an ironical little comment the other night said: 'I bow to my Leader's commendable concern for honesty'. If that was not said tongue in cheek I do not know what it was meant to indicate. 
I should like to take  Senator Withers  back, if he is prepared to follow me, to what he had to say about an almost identical proposition in 1973. In discussing our proposition for a similar referendum when he spoke about the purpose of the Bill being to hold Senate elections at the same time as elections for the House of Representatives, he said: 
That is a very noble aspiration. But the initial question one should ask is: Why is this necessary? 
He went on to say that the proposal was nothing but an exercise in deception. He then gave us a little bit of bad law by telling us that one of the reasons that the proposal was not necessary was that it is a simple thing to synchronise the elections for both Houses. He said: 
Firstly, we can have simultaneous elections at any time that the Prime Minister (  Mr Whitlam)  likes to go and see the Governor-General because in section 37 of the Constitution there is provision for a double dissolution if there is a disagreement between the 2 Houses. 
So the only suggestion that he had for synchronising the elections was to use the cumbersome procedure of section 57 which as he well knows is not available and has not been available for most of the life of the Parliament. It is only rarely that there has been the sort of disagreement between the 2 Houses which enables a Prime Minister to go along and ask the Governor-General to dissolve the Houses and to have a simultaneous election.  Senator Withers  suggested that we can sweep that course aside. He said: 
The Government could, if it wished to do so and if it had the courage to do so, take out the House of Representatives at the next Senate elections- 
Does he not know- perhaps he should know now; he may not have known then- that it is not nearly as simple as that. Surely he is warranted in thinking that the Governor-General would do almost anything for his Party. But the GovernorGeneral is on record, in a speech he made in India when he was on a visit there, as saying that he would not necessarily grant an early election to a Prime Minister merely because the Prime Minister wanted it and it suited him politically. When we advocated synchronisation of elections for both Houses it was necessary and it is still necessary for the reasons I shall give. 
Let us turn the question back on  Senator Withers.  Let us ask him: Why has he now become convinced that what was an essay in deception in 1974 is now necessary? If he has any elementary honesty he would have to admit that it is not for any reasons which might have to do with political principle but merely because of the blue funk which his Government is now in about facing the electors of Australia either for a House of Representatives election or for a Senate election. It is because his Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  fears that if the Government cannot keep the Senate going longer than it was originally intended to be in being, if it has to have an election at any time as early as May or June 1978, it will get a resounding rejection from the electorate, compounded by the fact, as  Senator Missen  pointed out, that a half Senate election partakes of the atmosphere of a by-election. If people are not getting rid of a government they are inclined to express their displeasure more than they would if they were deciding the fate of a government. 

 Senator Withers and Malcolm Fraser know that if there were a half Senate election early next year the Government's numbers in the Senate would be reduced and it would go out to the world what is now clear from the gallop polls, that there is creeping dissatisfaction throughout all sections of the community with this Government which has failed so abjectly to fulfil the promises with which it stole office. In other words his present support for a measure which he has described as being a fraud is based on fraud. He is supporting this proposition now for the basest reasons of political expediency. To their credit a sizeable number of his followers have seen through him. The second thing he put when he was opposing our almost identical measure in debate here on 4 December 1 973 was that as the Government's referendum proposals unfolded, it was clear that the Billl was but the first step towards carrying out the Labor Party's policy of abolition of the Senate. He continued: 
As I see it, the whole purpose of this Bill is to lower the status and to weaken the independence of this chamber. 
Of course he did not believe that. That was just a pan of his usual windy bluster. But if he did beeve that, are we not entitled to ask him: Why would we not be equally entitled to draw an inference from the introduction of this Bill by his own Government that it has the same sinister purpose? That is certainly an inference which some of his colleagues have drawn.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack m the debate the other night had this to say - 
No, I do not,  Senator, and  I shall elaborate in due course the reason behind our support of this measure. What I am concerned about at the moment- I think it is a necessary part of the debate- is to expose the utter fraudulent hypocrisy of the Government in introducing this Bill and in particular the fraudulence of  Senator Withers,  this smirking provincial smarty who has managed to wheedle and cajole his way into the leadership of his Party. 
-Take your hand away from your mouth and I might hear you,  Senator. 
I think it is a considerable service to this chamber that this fraud should be unmasked and that is the purpose of my present remarks. One of  Senator Withers  regular followers,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, categorised this Bill in this way: 
This is the opening attack, the opening volley, on the Senate by the government of the day. 

 Senator Rae said:  the successful party in the 1974 referendum apparently has done a full 1 80 degrees about face. 
We, like the Government's dissidents, still await some rational, believable explanation of this about-face. Until we get one, we are justified in concluding that  Senator Withers  is giving us just one more manifestation of his cynical view of politics in this country. As I have said, I do not go along with the attitude of these dissidents- I do not use that as a pejorative term; I applaud their courage- that this legislation in any way threatens the dignity or importance of the Senate. Neither by the way does  Senator Withers;  nor did he in 1973 or 1974. It was just his usual cynical bluster that made him use words such as those. What I am charging him over is not his support for this Bill today, because we also support it, but the evidence which this support gives of the total fraudulence of his opposition to the same legislation in 1973 and 1974. He also said during that debate, in speaking of the Senate: 
It was never intended that it be dependent upon the will of the House of Representatives and as far as this Party is concerned it never will be. 
What rot! Who believes that  Senator Withers  has not got his head together with his boss,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, to push this legislation through regardless of what he may believe- that is if he believes anything- in order to confer a political advantage on his Party, because that is all politics is to  Senator Withers.  He is nothing more than a cheap provincial opportunist. Another thing - 
I can see that the provincials are banding together. 
The honourable senator cannot take it. He will get a go later. He should listen to what I have to say, because there is more to come. Another point made by  Senator Withers  in the debate in 1973 was this: lt - meaning the Whitlam Government- attempts to deceive the public and it is attempting a referendum fraud upon the electorate. We members of the Opposition Parties in this chamber will have no part in that deception and that fraud. 
I wonder what has changed his mind? Are we to hear an explanation? Those behind him certainly are waiting for one. A little further on in his speech he said: 
Senators on the Government side should stand and say whether they believe in the Senate. If they do so they will be the first to oppose this insidious measure which is aimed at  downgrading it and which is the first step on the way to its abolition. 
Is that what the honourable senator believes about this measure also? What was it that converted him? It sounds like the miracle of the conversion of St Paul on the road to Damascus. We would like the honourable senator to share with us this process of conversion. We would like to hear what it is that can get under a thick skin like him and make him do a complete somersault in such a brief period. But, as  Senator Withers  suggests, that is about enough time to be devoted to him. That is enough time to devote to exposing his shoddy opportunism. 
-The honourable senator might as well never be here - 
-The honourable senator might as well never even be here, as far as I am concerned. I await the day when he is not here. 
-Yes, the honourable senator might learn something. He does not read the newspapers. He certainly does not do much rational thinking. He never gives any logical reasons for doing a complete somersault. So I suggest that he stay here for a while. He might find out something. 
-The honourable senator is fleeing the battlefield. 
I know that there will come a dme in this debate when all of the rest of us in this chamber will expect  Senator Withers  to stand up and give some justification for his somersault. If he sticks around for another few minutes, he may find out from me some honest reasons why this Bill should be supported. 
The Australian Labor Party supports this Bill, as it supported it several years ago, on these bases, and I would like the dissidents to listen to this: If simultaneous elections for both Houses constitute some sort of a threat to the democratic process and to the Senate, why did not democracy perish and the Senate wither on the vine in the first 60 years of our federation when elections always were held simultaneously? 
-We will hear from the honourable senator. I respect his views. I submit that the greatest threat to democracy in Australia is the apathy and the inertia of a large section of this very conservative country. I believe that - 
I know it is. It is a very imperfect system, but it is the best we have to offer. We should foster it and cousin it and not try to help it to perish in the way that some honourable senators opposite do. This loathing for politics and politicians which is endemic among a large section of the populationthis week I have begun to understand this loathing a little more and to understand why the people feel this way- is fostered by too frequent elections. If people are reluctant to come out and vote and we make them vote twice as often as is necessary, by doing that we are reinforcing this apathy and this inertia. If we want to do what will most encourage them to vote, we should have elections less frequently than we have had them in the last few years. 
I turn now to the matter of expense. We have been cajoled by this great frugal housekeeper,  Mr Fraser,  and by his minion,  Senator Withers,  to tighten our belts. This did not have much effect on  Senator Withers  personally. It did not deter him from spending a lot of money on what I considered to be the best suite in Parliament House. Nonetheless, we have listened to this advice of the Prime Minister and we go along with the idea that any unnecessary expense should be avoided. This would be one of the effects of carrying this referendum Bill. We also believe that Parliament should express the will of the people as expressed at the last general election and that this purpose is best served by simultaneous elections. We also believe that simultaneous election for both Houses will save busy Ministers and members of Parliament from wasted time in constant electioneering. 
I take up a point that  Senator Missen  made last night, namely, that in half elections partaking of the character of by-elections all sorts of eccentrics, which was the kind word he used, are encouraged to run and people who represent nothing but some partial aspiration which happens to catch the mood of the electorate at that time are elected to the Parliament. I will tell a little story about one such person who came to the Parliament to indicate what a grasp he had on the affairs of our polity. Honourable senators will all know the gentleman to whom I refer. After he had been here for about 6 months he came to me in some wonderment and said: 'Before I came here I thought that every member of the Senate was a member of the Ministry'. That was the extent of his political sophistication. We are likely to get more members of Parliament like that if we have elections every few months, as those honourable senators opposing this Bill would seem to want. 
We certainly are not deterred in our support of this Bill on a matter of principle by finding ourselves temporarily in the bad company of  Senator Withers.  We support this Bill for reasons quite other than the reasons for which he supports it. For adventitious, opportunist and cynical reasons he is supporting a Bill to which he previously had expressed opposition on fundamental grounds of principle. I hope that the attention of the Australian people will not be deflected from the true reasons for this measure- a measure which was pioneered by the Labor Government- which are that it is a more rational, more sensible and less expensive way of conducting elections for the Federal Parliament to have them synchronised. 
I am constrained to observe that it is very interesting to find  Senator Wright,  this great exponent of consistency and honesty, expressing the view that the GovernorGeneral is bound on all occasions to act on the advice of the Prime Minister. We did not hear any such sentiments from  Senator Wright  or from anyone opposite during the events of October and November of 1 975. 
It is also interesting to find him quoting in support of his argument the practice in the British House of Commons. The contrast between the action of the British monarchy and her Viceroy in Australia is a very startling contrast. The monarch in Britain for more than a century and a half has never presumed to act except on the advice of her Prime Minister. But that unfortunately in recent history is a precedent and tradition that has been torn up by our own Viceroy. It is notorious that the Governor-General disregarded and swept aside the advice of his Prime Minister and ignored a majority decision of the House of Representatives on 11 November. These are events about which we heard no complaints from this sanctimonious  Senator Wright.  But he is not even right about - 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order!  Senator, I  would not like you to pursue those remarks. 

 -Mr Chairman, I bow to your wishes. I would like  Senator Wright  to make a thorough study of the attitudes of this Governor-General who has shown such a tender regard for the interests of  Senator Wright's  Party over the recent period.  Senator Wright  will find that there are even limits to the favours which he can expect from  Sir John  Kerr. 
I ask the honourable senator to have a look at a very detailed speech which  Sir John  Kerr made to, I think, the Indian Law Society on a visit to India a couple of years ago and in which he enunciated his view of the powers and duties of the Governor-General in Australia. He made it crystal clear that he did not consider that the mere wish or request of a Prime Minister was sufficient to oblige him to grant an election merely because it suited the convenience of the Prime Minister. If  Senator Wright  is concerned with the learned writings from which he has quoted and if he is so devoted to the statistics which he has given us in support of the proposition that a Prime Minister can have an election any time he wants to, I can supply the honourable senator with a copy of this speech by  Sir John  Kerr. It should put at rest any notion which  Senator Wright  has that even a  Sir John  Kerr will grant a Malcolm Fraser an election any time he wants one. 
I can see that  Senator Walters  is not satisfied by that explanation so I would like to clear it up for her, if she will just listen. In the crisis of November 1975, if there had been no stockpiling of Bills which would lay the ground for the application - 
Will the honourable senator listen to me? The situation could arise, as  Senator McLaren  has pointed out, that the Senate should choose to refuse Supply. It gets that opportunity every 6 months. That situation could arise where there was no stockpiling of Bills to satisfy the provisions of section 57. As a matter of fact,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, in a decision which he gave a month before he told the Governor-General that he could do what he did, said precisely that it was not possible to stockpile Bills for the purpose of having a double dissolution when it suited a government. A situation could easily arise where there was no section 57 situation, but if what the Governor-General did in November 1975 is good law then the Senate does get the opportunity twice a year to dictate to the House of Representatives that it shall go to the electors, and not necessarily go itself. If the honourable senator asks some authorities she will be told that that is the case. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade: Is it a fact that loans to beef producers by the Commonwealth Development Bank alone amounted to $89m as at 30 June 1976 and that loans to beef producers by Australian finance companies amounted to considerably more than that sum? In view of the advice of the Minister for Overseas Trade to beef cattle producers to withhold stock from the market, will the Government agree to assist cattle producers to meet interest charges which will still accrue while the producers' cash flow will come to an abrupt halt if they follow the Minister's advice? 
I draw  Senator Wright's  attention to sub-clause (3) of clause 10 which vests in the Attorney-General a discretion as to whether he will bring persons to trial on indictment for an offence against the proposed Act. Am I to understand that what  Senator Wright  is suggesting is that if a bunch of Australian hostages were captured by some evil regime and the Australian Government saw fit to mount a foray, such as that which the Israelis so heroically mounted at Entebbe, the Attorney-Genera) of Australia would then indict the Government of Australia and all persons who took part in that foray? This debate has reached a level of absurdity that I did not think could possibly be reached. That, I think, is the answer to  Senator Wright's  amendment. 
Since my colleague  Senator Button  has passed to my colleague  Senator Wheeldon  and me the task of bearing the heat and burden of the day, I should like to point out that the attitude of the Opposition is not one so much of opposition to a measure which is praiseworthy in intent as one of doubt as to whether this praiseworthy object has been achieved by the Bill. Perhaps in the course of this debate the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  will be able to dissipate these doubts. It must have been a difficult Bill to draft and we acknowledge those difficulties. We acknowledge from the outset that the intent of the Bill is praiseworthy. It seeks to prohibit Australians who are denned in clause 6- in a way which I think is a good dragnet, that is, they are either Australian citizens or, not being Australian citizens, they are ordinarily resident in Australia or at any time during the period of a year immediately preceding the doing of the act which it is sought to prohibit they were present in Australia for a purpose connected with the act. The Bill seeks to prohibit them from actually engaging in acts of terrorism which are specified in clause 6(3) or preparing in or outside Australia to engage in certain preparatory activities which are defined in clause 7 for the purposes of committing the acts of terrorism defined in clause 6. 
We in the Opposition certainly do not want to be heard to put any obstacles in the way of a measure which seeks to minimise acts of terrorism or to diminish the role of which certain misguided or misguidedly idealistic Australians might have to partake in this awesome scourge of terrorism which has become such an horrendous feature of life throughout the world in recent years. I was somewhat diverted by the admission in the second reading speech of the Minister that twice in recent years there have been such attempts. I do not know exactly to what incidents he was referring but my mind goes back to certain rather heated debates which occurred in this chamber a few years ago in which the leading protagonists were ex-Senator Murphy and the late  Senator Greenwood  and, I suppose with myself playing a minor role, in which I recall constant denials of allegations made by Labor senators that insurgent bands were being trained in Australia. I remember in fact that a committee was set up on the motion of certain Democratic Labor Party senators to inquire into such activities. I was a member of that committee. I recall taking evidence, including the presentation of some persuasive photographs of Ustashi volunteers training in camps.  Senator Button  mentioned Healesville in Victoria but there was an even more important camp near Wodonga. Evidence was also given- it was common knowledge to everyone but the Liberal senators- of actual training of Ustashi members in the suburb of Woollahra and other places around Sydney and of their actually getting into Yugoslavia and receiving a punishment much more drastic than is contemplated in this Bill. Those allegations were constantly denied by our opponents. I should like to hear some information from the Minister, just as a matter of curiosity, about the 2 examples to which he referred. He might let us know whether the angry protestations about our allegations a few years ago turned out to have been without much substance. 
I would like to congratulate the Governmentapart from any doubts that we have about certain details in this Bill- for having grasped the nettle of Australia's involvement in a world where terrorism has become endemic. The Government is now committed to firm opposition to the sort of activities which it once denied existed in Australia and to that extent, if it is deathbed repentance, it nonetheless is a repentance. If the Government, in its enunciation of the reasons for the measure, acknowledges the undesirability of prohibiting enlistment in foreign armed forces while the enlisters are abroad, even as mercenaries, it is surely clear that it is not within the competence of any government effectively to prevent such enlistment and there is no point in putting into any measure a provision which there is little possibility of enforcing. But there is a fine line, as I will point out, between this sort of activity and the sort of activity that is sought to be prohibited and prevented by this Bill as I will show when I come to an analysis of clause 9. 
I agree entirely with the general provisions against recruitment. I point out that in the present state of the world, especially in the state of a depressed economy like Australia 's, there is a great temptation to bewildered, despairing young men who have been extruded from any real activity in their own society, to grasp desperately at almost any straw to make themselves feel relevant and wanted in the world. It is possible to imagine combinations of idealism and despair which would make young men easy prey to high pressure recruitment activities in a period like the present one. I applaud the general measures against recruitment. 
Clause 9(2) gives me some difficulty. The Attorney-General is given power under clause 9 (2) to grant an exemption to the general prohibitions in clause 9(1) against recruiting in Australia.  Mr Ellicott,  the Attorney-General, in the other place gave what I considered a rather naive explanation of the purport of this subclause. Sub-clause (2) of clause 9 in general gives the Attorney-General the power to state that it is in the interests of the defence or the international relations of Australia to permit the recruitment in Australia, either generally or in particular circumstances, of persons to serve in or with a specified armed force. I emphasise that pointwith a specified armed force, not the regular armed force of a country but a specified armed force. I assume that it would be the government of the day, through its Attorney-General, which would be doing the specifying. I refer again to sub-clause (2) of clause 9 which gives the Minister the power to permit persons to serve in or with a specified armed force in a particular capacity. In circumstances such as that, the Attorney-General is entitled to waive the general ban against recruitment of mercenaries or volunteers which is contained in clause 9(1). 
Let us take a few specific examples. Let us take our minds back to the Spanish Civil War. Suppose a Labor government had been in office in Australia between 1936 and 1939. It could be safely assumed, I think, that such a government would have had no difficulty in specifying that the armed forces of what we would have considered the democratic combatants in that war would have come within this exemption. It should be noted in passing that we would have alleged that they were the correct government. I do not think juridically there could have been much dispute about that. We would have cast a benign eye on the recruitment of volunteers to help repel what we would have seen as the fascist threat of the Franco insurgence. In fact, of course, it is common knowledge that a great deal of idealistic young men in Australia actually volunteered to go and fight with the Spanish Republican Army. If a conservative government had been in power in Australia at the time I have no doubt that even though it may have been a little chary of openly stating its preference for Franco, it could have brought itself to specify that the armed forces of Franco were those that came within the meaning of this provision and could have lifted the embargo on recruitment of volunteers or mercenaries to go to fight with the Franco forces. I do not see any great horror in this proposition. It is an expression of political democracy. It may be that a government of one political coloration in this country has a preference for certainforces in another country and a government of a different coloration has a preference for the opponents of those armed forces. 
The kernel of the difficulty that I find about this provision in relation to the rest of the Bill is this: Construedliterally sub-clause (2) of clause 9, even though clauses 6, 7 and 8 are designed to put barriers in the way of Australians as defined joining up with partisan terrorist bands in other parts of the country, would allow a government to get out of the prohibitions contained in clauses 6, 7 and 8. After all the Palestine Liberation Organisation has armed forces. Could not a government which was sympathetic to the PLO specify those armed forces as being armed forces which came within the power of sub-clause (2) of clause 9 to grant such an exemption? Could that not apply to any rebels or insurgents who had armed forces? 
It may sound pettifogging or sound like an excessively literalist interpretation of the sub-clause, but these are things that have raised the doubts in the Opposition's mind as to whether the purposes of the Government could not have been achieved a little less clumsily. As I say, sub-clause (2) of clause 9 could be interpreted as a power to allow recruitment of terrorists. The Government decides. Terrorist is a word of abuse, a pejorative term, which is in the mind of the beholder. It is within the power of a government of the day to say that it approves of certain terrorists and then to invoke sub-clause (2) of clause 9. 
-This depends on the numbers in either House. It is a political reality that if a government had the numbers it could whitewash and give its blessing to the PLO or to any other insurgent group provided it had armed forces, and by definition terrorist groups have armed forces. It could then allow recruitment of the very sort of terrorists whose coming into existence the Bill seeks to prevent by way of clauses 6, 7 and 8. 
Now we come to the crowning absurdity of the Bill. While the right to grant exemptions enshrined in sub-clause (2) of clause 9 merely is an exemption against recruitment, there is still presumably a prohibition on the people recruited to engage in the activities that are specified in clauses 6, 7 and 8. That strikes me as a quite absurd contradiction. The sub-clause allows a government, which is so minded and which has the numbers, to get around the earlier provisions of the Bill. At the same time that escape clause could be rendered meaningless by the fact that even people who had been recruited under the exemption would be prohibited and subject to penalty under clauses 6, 7 and 8. 
As I said, I appreciate that this was a particularly difficult Bill to draft. I appreciate that the intentions of the Government were quite pure. I see nothing sinister in the general intendment of the Bill, but I appeal to the Minister representing the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  when he replies to allay the doubts which I at least feel as to what are the possibilities under what seem to me to be the contradictory clauses of this Bill. 
I find it quite incredible that anyone should suggest, as  Senator Wright  has suggested, that the unions would treat any proposal which emanated from this Government with anything but wary mistrust. The best example I can think of is this wage-price freeze charade which we have been treated to this week. I remind  Senator Wright  and other honourable senators that what the Premiers bought was a voluntary freeze, not a compulsory freeze. Yet last Sunday, a couple of days after they had reached this agreement, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  sent to each of the Premiers a telex which made it quite clear that he was attempting to turn their agreement about a voluntary freeze into a compulsory freeze. He submitted to the Premiers the text of what the Federal Government proposed to put before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which was an invitation to the Commission compulsorily to freeze the wages of the work force of this country. It was only when he was caught out in this manoeuvre that he back-tracked and admitted that the Premiers had a point. 
Then we had the example of the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party,  Mr Sinclair,  immediately jumping in to protect the people whom he represents and pointing out that a great number of items could not be frozen. We then had examples like the Managing Director of the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia saying that he certainly was not going to take any notice of a request for a voluntary freeze. The unions were left in a position of not knowing just what was to be frozen. So  Mr Hawke  came down here and had a brief and apparently acrimonious conference with the Prime Minister in which  Mr Hawke  suggested that a conference should be held to clear up precisely that point, that is, what was going to be frozen. But no, the unions were asked to buy a pig in a poke. Even though the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, when it met last week, had commended the proposal of the Australian Council of Trade Unions for a summit conference,  Mr Fraser  would have none of it. He sent the unions away, refusing to hold the conference which they suggested. 
This discloses the true purpose, as far as  Mr Fraser  is concerned, of the so-called wages and prices freeze. It was merely to back the unions into a corner where they could not possibly accept his proposal for a freeze without selling out their members and so he could then say to the public, in the hope that they would be gullible enough to fall for it: 'There you are, the sole responsibility for the continuation of inflation rests with the unions'. Let us look at the grand strategy of  Mr Fraser  which is gradually emerging. I suggest that his industrial policy is a mixture of machiavellianism and stupidity. The first is exemplified by the freeze, which I have just discussed very briefly as I have limited time, which was nothing but a public relations exercise to fit the blame onto the unions and also to throw a smoke screen around his own bankruptcy as an economic manager. It is exemplified also by his legislation, which is a combination of machiavellianism and stupidity. 
How can the Prime Minister expect the unions to trust him when he introduced into the Parliament the legislation which has been discussed so ably and in such detail by  Senator Harradine,  first of all in relation to this misconceived monster, an Industrial Relations Bureau? The purpose of the Industrial Relations Bureau is to create a third arm of government which will do precisely what the employers have learned is counter-productive and of which they will have no part, that is, to ask a court to impose penalties on the unions for industrial actions. The employers have had their fingers burned on many occasions in using these sanctions. The last notable occasion was in 1969. It will be recalled that in 1968 the Arbitration Commission handed down a judgment in the metal trades case which came to be known as the absorption judgment, in which it was suggested that over-award payments would be absorbed in the rises that the Commission granted. This created great indignation among the unions and there was a rash of strikes. 
The employers did what  Mr Fraser  now proposes to do: They rushed to what was then known as the Commonwealth Industrial Court and had fines imposed on all the unions involved in the disputes. Finally, a unionist was gaoled and there was industrial chaos. What the employers were concerned about was keeping the wheels of industry turning. They make no profits when people are out of work in thousands because they are upset or indignant. So the employers backed down and the Commission backed down. A formula was found to erase the notion of absorption, which was seen to be unjust, and peace ensued after that. Ever since then the employers have learned the lesson that these sorts of draconian measures just do not work. Evidently  Mr Fraser  has not learned this lesson. The purpose of his Industrial Relations Bureau is to have an arm of the executive government which will barge in where angels fear to tread and do again the mischief which the inexperienced employers did in 1969 and which they do not do now because they have learned their lesson. 
The unions were asked to trust a government which turns the clock back in this way, to cooperate with a government which is backward enough to think that this is the correct approach to industrial relations. This Industrial Relations Bureau will be clothed with the right for unprecedented interference in the internal affairs of unions. Before this Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill is debated in this place, I invite all honourable senators to read the small print. For instance, it allows- it encourages- unionists to become informers on their own unions. It revives all the discredited penalties under the euphemistic term 'consequences'.  Senator Wright  has the gall or the naivety to refer to activities of this kind as being ombudsman-like activities. I think that the categorisation that the unions have given to this body is the more correct one: They refer to it as an industrial police force. 
I think  Senator Harradine  correctly has shown that there already exists in the legislation ample protection for individual rights in the form of section 140 and section 141, which have been availed of by unionists over the years to protect themselves from any acts of tyranny by union officials. But under the guise of protecting individual rights, the legislation which the unions are asked to see as containing nothing sinister encourages people not to join unions. I invite honourable senators to examine a new section which is proposed to be inserted into the legislationthat is, proposed new section 144- which greatly widens the grounds upon which people can refuse to join unions. I ask the question: If it is thought fair to exempt people from any obligation to join unions should they not be exempted also from the benefits which are won for them by the unions which they refuse to join? 
The legislation also contains invitations to unionists and to people who do not join unions to scab during a strike and exaggerated protection is given to people who take this action. I make bold to suggest that laws will not be sufficient to enforce a desire on the part of the Government to encourage people to scab, because the odium which attaches to a man who declines to obey a majority decision of his fellows in a situation like that will be sufficient deterrent to prevent people from taking this extreme course. Then, of course, despite  Senator Wright's  assurance that the trade practices legislation is being trimmed down, we have the threat of an amendment to the Act which will allow the Government to impose fines of as much as $50,000 on individuals who take part in industrial action. These are the measures introduced by a Government which invites the unions to trust it blindly in the matter of a wages and prices freeze and which will not even discuss the details of such a freeze. 
I suppose the greatest example we have of the stupidity of the Government's industrial policy is contained in the new grounds for deregistration which are contained in the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill.  Senator Wright  expressed horror that a union would think of cancelling its registration. If he and the Government had any knowledge of the history of industrial legislation and industrial life in this country they would recall the history of the airlines industry. Up to 1959 there was an Australian Air Pilots Association which was registered in the Federal Court. The pilots decided that they were not getting a good enough deal from the Commission and they resigned  en masse  from that organisation. They then regrouped into an outfit known as the Australian Federation of Air Pilots which did not seek registration. This Government which now thinks it can punish a union by deregistering it, showed what it thought of having a union outside the umbrella of the industrial laws in 1967 when it went to the trouble of setting up a Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal which had jurisdiction even over the unregistered body. So much for the proposition that deregistration is some sort of punishment! 
Let us take a more recent example. The Builders Labourers Federation was deregistered a couple of years ago as some sort of punishment. Does anybody think that that humbled Norman Gallagher and his cohorts? Was there suddenly a great onset of light and harmony into the building industry? Of course not. The builders labourers did not give a damn about their union being deregistered. I suggest that manifested in this legislation is a total unreality and a total lack of grasp of what industrial life is about. Another ground- the ground merely of engaging in industrial activity- is now enough to ensure deregistration of a union. For a union that is powerful enough and a union that has muscle enough, that is a punishment which it can shrug off lightly and without care. It will cost the Government much more dearly than it will cost the union. Yet, in order to make it appear that the legislation which the Government is introducing is even more draconian than it needs to be, we get this additional ground for the deregistration of a union. I say that these are the actions of people who know nothing about the realities of industrial life. But more than that, a close reading of these provisions which have not reached us yet- I understand that they will be allowed to lie on the table of the House of Representatives for a few weeks in order to allow people to give their opinion of them- will reveal that these are the measures of a government which then turns to the unions and says: 'Trust us to look after your interests as well as the interests of the rest of society'. I suggest that the greatest crime to date of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)-  I fear that there are more ahead from him- is that he has destroyed the national consensus and has lost all right to be trusted by the unions. I believe that the public will see through his shoddy manoeuvres of recent weeks and that they will lay the blame where it belongs- not on the unions but squarely at the feet of this incompetent and dishonest Government. 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it true that the GovernorGeneral and his wife, who left Australia this week, will be absent from the country for approximately 7 weeks? Is the main reason for Their Excellencies' trip the participation in the Queen's Silver Jubilee celebrations? Does their itinerary also include stays in Tehran, Nice, Paris, Rome and Bangkok where, one presumes, there will be no Silver Jubilee festivities? Will the travelling and incidental expenses incurred by 
Their Excellencies be met in full by the Australian Government or will the Commonwealth's financial commitment be confined to that portion of their trip which is related to the Silver Jubilee celebrations? 
It must seem extraordinary to the dispassionate observer that a government which came to power proclaiming itself as the champion of private enterprise should have failed so dismally to live up to its promises. I think we can say that in no sphere of its activities, or rather its inactivities, has it been a more blatant defaulter than in its failure to bring down a White Paper on the manufacturing industry.  Senator Cotton  set out at great pains to show that this was due merely to a care on the part of the Government to hasten slowly, to make sure that it did not blunder into error in such an important sphere by going too fast. But of course this excuse does not stand up to examination because, on his own admission, after a few months a draft of a White Paper was presented to the Cabinet and the reason nothing has emerged from the Cabinet is merely because there is such a fundamental division in its own ranks about what should be the future of manufacturing industry. Obviously there has been not only a brawl between the leading departments, with the Treasury trying to sweep this paper under the rug in the same way as it managed to convince the Menzies Government to do with the Vernon report, but also there is a contest within the ranks of the Government parties about what should be an appropriate level of protection of Australian industy in the period ahead. It is not because the Government does not want to go too fast that we have not had this White Paper; it is because it does not know what to do. There is some food for thought in the fact that it was a Labor government which is constantly depicted by its opponents as being the scourge of private enterprise, which took the initiative to appoint the Jackson Committee in the first place. On the other hand it is a government which is depicted as having the interest of private enterprise closest to its heart which is dragging its feet. 
My colleague  Senator Douglas  McClelland pointed out that the Committee was a highpowered committee consisting of some of our leading industrialists, economists and a leading pubic servant in the person of  Mr Neil  Currie, the then head of the Department of Manufacturing Industry, and  Mr Hawke  representing the unions. The remarkable thing is that this Committee was able, despite its variegated composition, to reach a consensus. This was because it got over the petty issues, with which our opponents are mostly concerned, of attempting to blame all the ills of society onto the trade unions. There was a trade union representative on the Committee. The Committee interviewed many trade unionists. The Committee members went into the work places of manufacturing industry and because they were bigger men than the people that we are used to dealing with on the other side of the chamber they were able to reach a consensus and come to grips with the real malaise of Australian industry. 
Let us have a look at what has happened since so that we can examine  Senator Cotton's  excuse that it has been merely a desire to hasten slowly. The Green Paper, that is the Jackson Committee report, was tabled on 27 October 1975- just a few weeks before we were caught up in the traumatic events of November 1975 when the Labor Government was robbed of office. In the election campaign  Senator Cotton  promised that he would carry out the recommendation of the Jackson Committee and would produce a White Paper. He did this in the course of the election campaign on 28 November 1975. In January 1976, when he had his present portfolio as Minister for Industry and Commerce, he met with State Ministers who had a realm of responsibility similar to his and asked them to make submissions for a White Paper. In February he requested submissions from the public. On 22 April 1 976 he repeated this appeal. On 30 April 1976 he stated the terms of reference of the White Paper. It was obvious that that is when it began to run into heavy weather. There were constant reports of sabotage from the Treasury and of cold feet by certain members of the Government parties. It was quite obvious to anybody who read between the lines that there was a fundamental brawl going on, not only in the Government Parties but also in the bureaucracy, on the vexed question of tariff policy which is at the heart of the future not only of manufacturing industry in this country but also of our entire economy. 
In the brief time that I was Minister for Manufacturing Industry I realised that I had had a very sick child on my hands, or rather a very sick old man, because already it was showing signs of senility. I met with most of the leaders of industry and I was persuaded- I am still persuaded- that one of the things that aggravated the problems of manufacturing industry was the spectacular 28 per cent rise in wages in 1974 which so eroded the retained earnings of manufacturing firms that their gearing ratio was upset and many of them were facing bankruptcy. It was the thought, as much as anything else, of the massive unemployment which faced people in the manufacturing industry that led me to become an advocate of wage restraint when I became Minister for Labor and Immigration. But as this report of the Jackson Committee will show, it is a gross oversimplification of the problems of manufacturing industry, and it is an exaggeration that we hear every day from our opponents, to say that all the difficulties of manufacturing industry are due to the excessive wage demands of the unions and that if only the unions could be put in their place all would be well with manufacturing industry. Now its problems, as this variegated Committee pointed out, go much more deeply than that and are based on the history of manufacturing industry in Australia which could get off the ground in the first place only if it were given more protection than is probably healthy for any manufacturing industry. After all, we were a colony. It is notorious of the British who, when they were colonising people, did not foster manufacturing industry. They looked upon their colonies as quarries, as sources of raw materials which then should go back to the mother country for value added. This was at the heart of British policy. It was only when Australia began to assert some claims to independence that it became necessary to give the sort of protection without which manufacturing industry would not have arisen in Australia. I do not citicise those who introduced that in the first place. This was at the heart of a great contest between the free traders and the protectionists in the last century and in the early years of this century. 
I agree with  Senator Cotton  that the argument has now risen above the primitive level of free trade versus protection. It is much more complex. As the Jackson Committee pointed out, the malaise of manufacturing industry was that it was developing before the present global recession and it will still be here with us after the global recession. The manufacturing industry in this country is structurally inappropriate to the present circumstances and incapable, in its present form, of coping with future challenges. These were the conclusions of the Jackson Committee. Its profitability has been declining steadily so it has not been attractive to investors. After all, the capital market makes pretty ruthless decisions. Labour productivity is low due to the low rates of investment in new plant. The misbegotten investment allowance of the present Government, which was supposed to cure that, was based on the fallacy that manufacturers or entrepreneurs generally would want to invest considerable sums when they had considerable unused capacity. Their problem was that they had no consumers on the local market for the goods that they were producing and any government which knew what it was about should have been attempting not to constrict consumer spending but to expand it. This is at the heart of the economic problems of the present Government. 
In addition, the manufacturing industry has been beset by bad industrial relations and aggravated by the fragmentation of the union movement which has led to demarcation disputes which are amongst the silliest disputes and amongst the most costly to the community. Every time we have attempted to facilitate amalgamation of unions and have introduced legislation into the Parliament to do that, we have been frustrated by the Liberal-National Country Parties which have always defeated such attempts to rationalise the union movement. The manufacturing industry has further been hampered by bad working conditions, by its small scale- its smallness on the domestic market- and the Jackson Committee pointed out that there has been needless duplication of plant, there has not been any of the economy of scale and it must become internationally competitive and become an exporter so that it can burst out of the straitjacket of the constricted local market. These are the problems of manufacturing industry in Australia. They are not the problems which our opponents constantly tell us of wicked unionists asking for more than their share. After all, industry manages to flourish in Japan and the United States with people getting as high or higher wages as members of our work force. The fault is not with the work force in Australia. It lies with the managers and with- nobody is to blame here- the history of manufacturing industry in Australia. 
Obviously, at the heart of the problem of manufacturing industry is this vexed question of structural change. I must say that I agree with  Senator Cotton  when he attacked those who attempt to oversimplify this problem. Many of the pundits- especially those in the newspapers who suggest that it is a matter of soulless, logical rationalisation and all will be right- are people with whom I have little patience. As it is pointed out in the Jackson report, what is required is a greater efficiency in the allocation of resources in Australia- that is, changes in the industrial structure should be achieved by freeing resources from established industries needing high tariffs with the reallocation to better use of resources so displaced being left to market forces. But having said that, there are many caveats that have to be added. As the report points out, the resources to be displaced are not economic abstractions. They are flesh and blood- men and women who work in factories and men and women who supply the factories with materials and services. They do not accept that they must suffer or at least be disturbed so that the rest of the community may benefit. The report points out that in principle there will be a benefit to the community in restructuring, in a more efficient allocation of resources. The benefit is likely to be delayed. It is likely to be a long-term benefit rather than shortterm and this is a fundamental economic and social matter to which governments must give their attention now, not in the future. This is why it is an urgent problem. I do not suggest that a Labor government would not have difficulties also in selling, say, structural adjustment. It is a matter on which there are irrational attitudes in the trade unions as well as in certain manufacturing circles. I point again to what the Jackson Committee decided. It said: 
The central theme of this green paper- its key idearelates to  change  and the need to  adapt to change. 
Manufacturing industry in Australia has been concerned to quarantine itself from the mounting forces of change within and outside Australia. . . . But change is inescapable. 
That is why this matter is urgent. It is not a matter that can be treated as though a leisurely approach lasting over several governments will be a sufficient answer to this problem. How can industry plan? How can it invest unless it knows what is to be the Government's attitude towards its future? What industries are to be fostered? What industries are to be discouraged from further investment? Of course, the uneasiness of industry can be demonstrated by glancing back through the  Industry Journal  since this Government took office. I do not have time, unfortunately, to refer to any of the articles but they have headlines such as: 'Private Sector Challenge', Call for Positive Government Action', 'Tariff Debate- Need for Objective', and 'Manufacturing Situation Demands Urgent Action'. These are not hysterical cries from the Labor Party or from the unions. These are the considered opinions of those most affected; that is, the manufacturers themselves. They are constantly telling the Government that they had better get on with the job. They do not have a century or a decade to decide these matters. Of course, in his frustration  Senator Cotton,  understandably, on one occasion lashed out at the private sector and said that the solution was in its own hands and it should not be looking to the Government for any help and that it had better just get on with solving its own problems. I am sure from what  Senator Cotton  said today that that is not his considered opinion, that it was a bit of rhetoric in which he indulged when he was carried away by being heckled by those who did not understand the enormity of the problem which he was tackling. I know that the problems are enormous. I think that although the Government's policy on manufacturing industry has been defective, as it has been on industrial policy, I can read between the lines and see that it was not the fault of a couple of capable Ministers such as  Senator Cotton  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  but was due to the iron boot of their boss who takes all the important decisions that this Government takes. In any event, in the sphere of manufacturing industry, as in the related sphere of industrial policy we see that this Government, which promised to turn on the lights, gives the impression of a government which is still stumbling around in the dark trying to find the switch. 
This Government will soon have been in office for nearly a year and a half and there is not much more time available for it to blame the Whitlam Government or the trade unions for all the ills of society. The people of Australia are waiting with growing impatience for more results to emerge from the awful political traumatic events of 1975. In the light of this Government's record, I fear that the people of Australia are going to wait in vain. The real reason that we have not got a White Paper on manufacturing industry is not the reason that was given to this chamber by  Senator Cotton-  that is, that the Government wants to dot every 'i cross every 't', look to the long term future of Australia and not take any quick wrong decisions- but is due to the fact that this Government does not have a clue to the answers to these problems. 
I recall that in the days of the Eisenhower presidency in the United States there was a man named Charles Wilson who had been the General Manager of General Motors in the United States.  President  Eisenhower made him Secretary for Commerce. He delivered himself of a statement which became the laughing stock of the United States when he said: 'What is good for General Motors is good for the United States.' This was a classical assumption of the parallel interests of this giant corporation and the interests of the American people; nearly as fatuous, I suggest, as the now notorious statement of our Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that life was not meant to be easy. Certainly we could not have said this week that what is good for GM-H is good for Australia. 
As most of the speakers, whether for or against this motion, have pointed out, the main fault is that of GM-H itself. Not only has it been unimaginative in misreading the market and not understanding that the world-wide fuel shortage would make the trend toward smaller cars more imperative; it has also, as has been pointed out this week by one of the union officials involved, neglected the investment of new capital in its plant in Australia. It is almost as though this wealthy family, centred on the United States, is treating GM-H in Australia as some sort of a poor relation. The figures tell their own story. I am more bewildered every day by what we have come to expect from  Senator Cotton  when he stands up and says that all the economic indicators point towards fair weather ahead for this country. We are getting from the market place quite different noises specifically to what we got from GM-H this week. 

 Senator Young quoted some figures. I think  Senator Jessop  gave some figures a little earlier. The stark picture of what has happened to GM-H in recent years is told by its sales figures. I will give them in round figures. In 1973 GM-H sold 205 000 vehicles; in 1974 it sold 190 000 vehicles; in 1975 it sold 164 000 vehicles; and in 1976 it sold 157 000 vehicles. The most significant factor in the last figure is that only 7500 GM-H vehicles were sold overseas. It has almost lost its capacity to compete in world markets. It is down to 65 per cent or 67 per cent of its capacity. The figure which was given, I think by  Senator Jessop,  and which I think is probably the most significant when we deal with efficiency or look for a yardstick of productivity, was the number of vehicle units per employee produced by GM-H. It is only seven, compared with 9.1 for the Ford Motor Co. of Australia. This points to a lack of efficient plant, to a lack of modernisation of the enterprise and perhaps to too diversified a siting of the various plants. It was said this week, I think quite truly, by  Mr Thompson,  one of the union officials who is very familiar with the operations of GM-H and the other motor manufacturers, that obsolete capital equipment was to blame for GM-H's economic problems. He named Pagewood in New South Wales, on the outskirts of Sydney, as the worst of its 8 Australian plants. He accused the company of spending as little as possible on modernising its capital equipment so it could send its profits overseas. He said there was very little capital replacement. He said there was no automatic spray painting equipment in Australia. At the General Motors plant at Lordstown, Ohio, 3 people could spray 103 cars an hour, using automatic equipment. In Australia this has to be done with many more men, by hand, thus adding to labour costs. He said there was no automatic spot-welding equipment in Australia. 
It has become fashionable not only for our opponents but also for the media to ascribe all the shortcomings of Australian productivity to the work force, without pointing to where the true blame lies. It is no accident, as I have pointed out previously, that Japanese automobile workers and American automobile workers are paid as much as or more than Australian automobile workers, but they produce many more units per worker. That is because their plants are more efficiently conducted. 
It is also due to some factors beyond our control. It is due to economies of scale. Many pundits in this country allege that we should not have an automobile industry, that from the beginning we were doomed to be inefficient because we did not have the advantages of economies of scale which make German automobiles, Japanese automobiles and American automobiles cheaper and better than Australian automobiles. One even sees that reflected in the local market. For the short period that I was Minister for Manufacturing Industry the problems of the automobile industry were my problems. I must say that I was glad to get rid of them. I am glad that  Senator Cotton  has them now. It always struck me as one of the most ironic things in the short period that I was Minister that when I went to these automobile plants the people who worked in these plants owned Japanese cars. That struck me more forcibly than anything else. The automobile workers who worked for GM-H, Ford or 
Chrysler Australia Ltd expressed their consumer preference, in many cases, by buying a Datsun or a Toyota. In other words, the real problem of GM-H in Australia is due to the fact that it has been unimaginative and it has grown increasingly inefficient. To point towards the unionists in these plants or to the fuel crisis in Victoria as some sort of explanation for the falling off in the sales of vehicles is to fly in the face of reality. Aggravating the problem is the fact, which  Senator Cotton  and every  speaker  on the other side neglect, that the real reason why as many cars are not being sold this April as last April is that the recession, which is blamed on us, is continuing to deepen. It is expected that sales this May will be worse than sales last May. I do not want to talk down the economy, but the reason that fewer people are buying cars is that fewer people have any confidence that the economy will pick up. It is getting a little late in the day for our opponents to blame all this on us. It is a fair while since we were in office. If the Government has some clues, it is about time it showed them to us. 
What happened this week with GM-H disturbs me more as a symptom of the continuing recession than as the event itself. The Government will not face up to the fact that large numbers of motor cars are not being sold. It gives me no pleasure to say this. I do not believe that for us to gain political advantage things should get worse. I hope they get better, no matter who is running the country. We will not get anywhere by pretending that these problems do not exist. There is a 2-fold answer to the continuing problem of the inability of GM-H and, I fear, perhaps the other car manufacturers to sell their vehicles. Firstly, we do not have the advantage of economies of scale. Secondly, the industry, for all the capital that has been put into it, is undercapitalised. That is obvious. That is admitted by the companies. They have plans for increased capital expenditure, but we must go through this slump first because of their inefficiency, because of their unimaginativeness, because they have not read the market correctly and because of the continuing and, I fear, deepening recession. 
I hope it does not turn out that GM-H, alone among the local manufacturers, may have seen the trend ahead. I hope we will not see something like this happen with Ford and Chrysler. The fact is that people do not have confidence. Many of them do not have any money. This is why they are not buying cars. It is of no service to this community for the Minister to say: 'We have it all under control. Labor did not do anything about the motor car industry, but we will. We have a plan. The indicators show an upturn in the economy'. The signs and the signals we get from the market place are such as those which we got from GM-H this week. The problem will not just go away. It is no good the Minister pretending, in the sort of Panglossian mood that he has, that everything will be for the best in the best of all possible worlds, merely because we have a conservative government. It is a rather more difficult problem than that. Without attempting in any way to suggest that the Labor Party was faultless, we are getting a little impatient for the magical cures that we were promised during the traumatic days at the end of 1975. What is wrong with the motor car industry is a combination of factors. People are not buying cars primarily because there is no consumer confidence in the country. We are told that we would get consumer confidence. I hope the problem will not get worse. I fear that it will not go away, as the Minister thinks it will. 
-I advert briefly to a couple of other matters, in particular to division 170- High Court, subdivision 1 dealing with a payments in lieu of long leave and unremunerated periods of service to  Sir Edward  McTiernan on his retirement from the Court. 
I would like to turn briefly to another matter and to add my remarks to those that are contained in the report of the Committee on division 1 70. 1 and division 172.1. Division 170 relates to salaries and payments in the nature of salary in lieu of long leave and unremunerated periods of service as Acting Chief Justice. This refers to  Sir Edward  McTiernan on his retirement from the Bench. Division 172 relates to a similar payment to  Sir John  Spicer of $40,500 on his retirement from the Commonwealth Industrial Court. The Committee has made some remarks on this but I would like to add a few of my own. When the matter came before the Committee I was not at first particularly disturbed by it because I had always assumed that judges whose daily task is the interpretation of the most abstruse niceties of laws purporting to confer rights and privileges on others would have exercised the utmost punctilio in ensuring that any rights or privileges enjoyed by members of that same court would have a firm statutory base. For that reason I did not think at first that any questions should be asked about it, but to his great credit  Senator Wright  made no such assumptions and it was due to his probing that the fact was elicited that the payment of these sums in relation to the High Court had no statutory basis other than their inclusion in an Appropriation Bill; and in relation to other Federal judges the only basis for payment was a decision made by Federal Cabinet in 1 967 which I would suggest is not a sufficient basis for such a payment. 
I would like to make it clear at the outset that I am not attacking the proposition that judges who work at the tempo and with the application of High Court judges are not entitled to such a benefit. Any man who has practised law knows that High Court judges earn their keep. Not only do they have to deal with the most difficult matters and a great work load, but they are also compelledand this is not the case with the judges of State courts- to move from city to city for the convenience largely of the practitioners in the various cities. I do not for one moment suggest that they are not entitled at the end of their period of service on the Bench to the sort of benefit that they have been getting. But I was astonished and, as I say, it was due to the assiduous probing of  Senator Wright  that this matter was elicited, to find that there is no statutory basis for such payments. It has just grown up as a custom and at the end of their service or when a judge dies in service it has become the custom to make such payments to them or to the widow. 
Another matter disturbed members of the Committee in relation to  Mr Justice  McTiernan, and that was the amount that was paid to him- a neat $50,000. On examination of the various officials who were acquainted with the facts it emerged that the way the sum of $50,000 was computed was to allow a yearly salary of $47,500 and to add to that an amount to compensate  Sir Edward  McTiernan for the periods in which he acted as Chief Justice in the absence of the Chief Justice himself. There was no basis for that payment either. The correct amount, for the periods during which  Sir Edward  had acted in that position, came to something like $4,782. So the correct amount on those computations should have been a couple of thousand dollars more than he was actually paid, leading to, I think, a strongly based suspicion that the reason he was given $50,000 was just to make it a nice round sum. Justification was later found in the form of these periods when he had acted in a higher position. Although I am not suggesting there is anything improper in it and I am not suggesting that a puisne judge who acts as Chief Justice is not entitled to some compensation for the added responsibility involved, it was sloppy and a careless way of going about such a task. 
Once again the Committee was of the view that if such payments are to be made, both for long service leave and for acting in a higher position, they should have a firm statutory basis and not be left merely to the discretion of the judges themselves, no matter how worthy they may be of such remuneration. I would like an assurance from the Minister in charge of this matter that the recommendation of the Committee will be seriously considered by the Government and that the matter will be put on a proper basis for the future. 
Those who have become accustomed to dozing through the Speech from the throne would have missed nothing yesterday. After all, an administration which believes that the least government is the best government can hardly be expected to provide a feast of legislative goodies. But there is little comfort for the thousands of additional unemployed deliberately created by this Government's policies to be told that the 'Government rejects the notion that there can be a trade-off between inflation and unemployment'. The unemployed have been told, in effect, in the clearest possible terms, that this Government does not give a damn about them. 
The philosophy of the Speech was that in the fullness of time and with a little help from on high things will right themselves. Seeing that  Senator Walters  in her opening fantasy to today's proceedings about the condition of affairs in this country was moved to quote some poetry, may I proffer the suggestion that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  although I would never, of course, accuse him of reading Shakespeare, has adopted a slight variation on a theme from Hamlet which goes something like this: 
The time is out of joint. Ah cursed spite! But I am damned if I was born to put it right'. However, a little attention to the words which the Prime Minister's speech writers put into the mouth of the Governor-General would have been repaid by the delicious little touch of irony which occurs in the closing passages of the Speech. The Governor-General, referring to the nothing promises that he had made earlier, said: 
By devoting all its energies to these goals, by emphasising those things that unite all Australians, my Government will strive to realise the hope and vision of every Australian- an Australia rich in opportunity for all its people to live the life they choose, fully and freely. 
That certainly jolted me out of my slumbers. Does the appointment to a well paid sinecure of a handsomely pensioned Governor-General, who was by common consent the most divisive figure to fill that post, constitute an example of emphasising those things that unite all Australians? The most dangerous problem facing Australia today is not inflation and it is not unemployment. As  Senator Button  pointed out in his thoughtful speech earlier in the day, the greatest threat confronting this country is cynicism- a corrosive, insidious, slow-acting poison. When a great number of people, perhaps a majority of citizens, believes that people in the highest places are liars and cheats, we are living in a sick society. But when most people accept that as the normal state of affairs we are living in a society which can only be described as decadent. I have observed in recent Press reports that the latest surveys show that the Prime Minister's popularity rating has improved. Admittedly the surveys were conducted before he told the greatest lie in what can only be described as the most mendacious - 
I am suggesting,  Mr President,  that the Prime Minister told an outrageous lie and I propose to prove it. 
-Perhaps I can use a gentler word,  Mr President.  Would ' untruth' be acceptable? 
I am attempting to do so,  Mr President,  but I must admit that the present incumbent of the Prime Minister's office strains the use of parliamentary language. I will try to obey your ruling. Perhaps I can use the words 'trifling with the truth'. I would suggest that what we have had from him in the recent period is the greatest trifling with the truth in which I believe must be the most mendacious career in Australian political history. 
We have been challenged by  Senator Baume  today to do our duty as an Opposition and it is for considerations like that, and not out of spleen, that I am saying the things that I believe have to be said tonight. I believe there is a grave danger that unless this latest performance of the Prime Minister is adequately exposed he will get away with the conduct of which I complain and which I am not allowed to name in specific terms. The untruth, or the trifling with the truth, to which I refer is that there was no deal between the Prime Minister and Kerr- I think I am allowed to refer to Kerr as I want to do tonight because there is no privilege now attaching to him; he is just another ordinary employee of the Commonwealth Government- according to the Prime Minister, on that well known bon vivant 's recent appointment as Ambassador to the 
United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation. That proposition was too much even for a committed conservative brown nose as  Mr Peter  Samuel of the  Bulletin.  To my knowledge the appointment has not been approved by any single newspaper in Australia. Even such a way-out Tory as  Mr Geoffrey  Fairbairn, who was referred to earlier in the day by  Senator Button,  wrote a letter to the  Sydney Morning Herald  condemning the appointment. But even the  Sydney Morning Herald,  many of whose editorials in the past have to my knowledge been written by one of Kerr's cronies and sycophants,  Mr Guy  Harriott, editorially condemned the immorality of the appointment. 
Does anybody on the Government side of this chamber believe that the Prime Minister told the truth when he stated that there was no deal involved in Kerr's vacating of the job of Governor-General and his appointment as Ambassador to UNESCO. The silence from the other side of the chamber is deafening. I can well imagine that a petty cynic like  Senator Withers,  who I notice is not here in the chamber tonight although I had hoped he would have been, would find the indignation that I am expressing ingenuous.  Senator Withers,  whom I have characterised in the past as the most cynical man in this Parliament, today once again proved me right out of his own mouth in his non-answer to  Senator Button's  question about the matter that we are discussing tonight.  Senator Withers  said in effect- I ask any honourable senator on the opposite side who is honest enough to remember his answer or non-answer- 'we thrashed you in a couple of elections so we can do as we like '. That was his answer. He is riding high now as are all Government supporters. But  Senator Withers  may live to realise that such an immoral attitude is not even good politics. I can imagine, of course, that  Senator Withers,  and I suppose all honourable senators opposite, especially the senior Ministers with whom  Mr Fraser  admitted he had discussed the Kerr appointment, would be deeply wounded if anyone suggested that they were such fools as to believe Malcolm Fraser's blatant falsehood that Kerr's resignation-- 
 . . tinkering with the truth that Kerr's resignation as Governor-General was not made on the understanding that Fraser would give him a nice, cushy sinecure as a reward for removing his gross and embarrassing presence from Yarralumla. 
It is notorious that Kerr had become an embarrassment to the Government. To the Tories of this place it may seem like par for the course and in the natural order of things that a GovernorGeneral would dismiss an elected Labor government and put them in its place. I do not propose to regurgitate that distasteful episode. But the beneficiaries of Kerr's favours did not expect the titular head of state to fall over in the mud when opening a country fair or to conduct himself like a drunken lout before half the population watching him on television present the Melbourne Cup. Kerr had to go. He knew it and the Prime Minister knew it. But how to get rid of him? If Kerr had dug his toes in, the Prime Minister just had no way of getting rid of him- a man whom he had praised so lavishly. I do not suppose we will ever know-- 
-You certainly will not, senator, because you are so dim. 
-One can make mistakes about friends. I understand that you were once a friend of Hitler, but I suppose you have woken up to him. 
-Who suggested the nice - 
I do not suppose - 
-What about a little bit of order,  Mr President? 
-I withdraw that,  Mr President,  as whatever  Senator Lajovic  was is not important enough to be laboured. 
I do not suppose we will ever know who suggested the nice, do nothing job that the Prime Minister had considered to be so important that he abolished it. Of course, that was not explained today by  Senator Withers.  It may have been Kerr himself or it may have been  Mr Fraser.  Paris, after all, was a natural choice. It is not only a pleasant place, as the former Governor-General has remarked, but also a city which is notoriously tolerant of his well-advertised tastes. We can only hope that the tolerant French will not find Kerr's habits so outrageous that they will judge Australians generally by his sottish behaviour. But that is enough about Kerr. I believe that he has written himself off with most Australians, including many of those who approved of his successful conspiracy which resulted in the events of 1 1 November 1975. What is much more serious is the poisonous precedent that his appointment as Ambassador to UNESCO has created. 
I will talk about Gair if you like. I do not applaud what happened to  Senator Gair.  I disapproved of it then and I disapprove of it now. But it is a bad precedent for honourable senators opposite to remember. Did we profit from that? Just ponder whether you will profit from this appointment. It was the beginning of trouble for us. This appointment may be the beginning of trouble for you. Think closely on the matter of  Senator Gair, Senator Thomas. 
I would like to refer now to  Sir Garfield  Barwick, who himself besmirched his reputation in the events of November 1975. I recall that at the time of his appointment to the position of Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia from this Parliament some years ago- that, of course, is not jobs for the boys, any more than  Sir John  Spicer's appointment was or  Sir Nigel  Bowen's appointment was-  Sir Garfield  Barwick, in justification of his appointment, made a point that I think has some validity. He said that judges, especially judges of the High Court who may have to pronounce on matters with some political content- as  Senator Webster,  the Minister for Science, would readily admit- should not, after their appointment, be in a position of expecting any further favours from the government of the day.  Sir Garfield  Barwick 's point therefore was that it was appropriate that a man who was not already a High Court judge- namely himselfshould be appointed because there would then be no taint and there would be no suggestion that any High Court judge had been rewarded for services rendered to the government. As I have said, there is a lot to be said for that point, if only  Sir Garfield  were always as ethically punctilious. But how much more is that the case - 
-Thank you,  Mr President.  But how much more is that the case with a Governor-General. I hope and believe that  Sir Zelman  Cowen's ambitions for public office will be fully satisfied by his recent appointment and that he will not aspire one day to become, say, Minister to the Vatican or  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. After all,  Sir Zelman  may have to decide during his incumbency of the office whether the present Government should have a premature election or something else that it wants. We will recall that Kerr had no difficulty in coming to terms with his conscience over that one and swallowing his own words. He knew, of course, that there was only one side of politics from which he would expect further prizes. A Governor-General who can expect further favours on quitting his job and who has the elastic conscience of a Kerr is in a strong bargaining position-- 
It is not necessary to the point that I am making. 1 say that a Governor-General who can expect further favours on quitting his job is in a strong bargaining position with any government. I hope that that situation will never arise. I certainly believe that  Sir Zelman  Cowen, on all of his publicrecord up to date, has moral standards much higher than those of his predecessor. But the lugubrious fact is that a precedent has been created. From now on any Governor-General will know that Malcolm Fraser is a man who will pay for favours rendered. 

 -Mr President, it is a comment that has been made by many reputable newspapers. 
-What about a bit of order there? 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 

 Senator James McClelland has not breached Standing Order 418 in any way. He has been making relevant statements. 
-Out of deference to you,  Mr President,  I will retract, and in the interests of having enough time to say the rest of the things that I want to say. I repeat that what is of abiding importance in this matter is the lowering of the standards of political life in this country which, if allowed to proceed unchecked, must ultimately threaten our most hallowed institutions. I recently read a most telling phrase. Revolutionary feeling begins in the perception of fraud. Sitting smugly with their overwhelming majority in both House of Parliament, the Conservatives regard any talk of revolution as laughable, and I hope that they are right. Much as I loathe the present political climate in this country, I see no solution to our problems in disorder or bloodshed. But if a large enough section of the population comes to believe that the game is rigged and if the proponents of reasonable reform are just not given a fair go within the democratic process, the day of the urban guerilla may arrive in this country earlier than people believe. Recent events have disposed of the old Ocker attitude that it cannot happen here. That is why I believe that Malcolm Fraser's recent conduct, to put it as neutrally as I can, represented such a black day for Australia. Since that occurred, conservative people who previously rejected the proposition that Kerr acted in bad faith on 11 November 1975 have confessed to me that they now think I was correct in my assessment of his behaviour. 
There is one ray of hope. It is just possible that this appointment may have a salutary effect in the long run if it turns out to be the beginning of a process of showing the Australian people to what sort of man they have entrusted the highest political office in this country, the prime ministership. It will be interesting to see what happens to Malcolm Fraser 's popularity rating in the coming months. We can forget about Kerr. We can leave him to the bartenders of Paris. But we cannot afford to be indifferent to the demonstrated fact that our Prime Minister has been so cynical in the handling of this matter, and I believe in his handling of the truth. I reiterate what I said at the opening of these remarks. This country faces very real problems, of which inflation and unemployment are the most obvious. But if the people of Australia continue to accept the proposition that a Prime Minister is entitled to act towards a head of state as the Prime Minister has acted over this appointment - 

 -Mr President, I suggest that you are putting limitations on debate in this chamber which are totally unacceptable. If we are not to be able to speak as strongly as this about conduct which we think threatens the institutions of this country this Parliament will become, as  Senator Button  suggested today, almost an irrelevant institution. With those words I conclude my remarks. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the 
Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is it a fact that the Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, has recently paid several visits to the historic homestead of Lanyon in the Australian Capital Territory which has been gazetted on the register of the Australian Heritage Commission? Is it a fact that several thousand dollars of taxpayers' money have been expended on the renovation of Lanyon? Is it also a fact that a precious collection of the paintings of Sidney Nolan, presented by the artist to the nation, is housed in Lanyon? Were the visits of the Chief Justice to Lanyon occasioned by his desire to have this mansion allocated by the Government for occupancy by the Chief Justice when the High Court is established permanently in Canberra? Does the Government intend to gratify this wish of the Chief Justice? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Science. I am sorry to give him such a busy time on such a relaxed afternoon. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the report in this morning's Press that Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation scientists have established the fact that Canberra's infamous bush flies are blown annually by prevailing winds from Queensland? What steps has the Minister taken to protect the national capital from this pest and other pests from Queensland. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it true that the Qantas building, which has been under construction in Sydney since 1972, is not expected to be completed until 1982? If this is true- I concede that industrial troubles have been responsible for some of the delay up to now- is the prime cause of the long building time a fundamental defect in the original architectural design? Is it also a fact that Qantas does not need the building for its own use and will probably never occupy it? 
On behalf of  Senator Brown,  I present the following petition from nine citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned members and ex members of the Citizens Forces of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
On 14 February 1975, the then Australian Government deprived the officers and men of the Australian Citizen Naval Military and Air Forces of the distinctive and historic Decorations and Medals for long service and good conduct, namely the Reserve Decoration, the Efficiency Decoration, the Air Efficiency Award, the Efficiency Medal and Long Service and Good Conduct Medals, awarded for long and meritorious voluntary service in the citizen forces. 
The proposed substitution of the National Medal for these Decorations and Medals varies the principle of selective recognition of efficient voluntary service in the citizen forces in that it recognises the period of service only and embraces also full time service as well in the defence forces as in the police, fire brigade and ambulance services. 
This deprivation caused and is continuing to cause serious discontent amongst personnel of the Citizens Forces who willingly and cheerfully give of their spare time outside their normal full time civilian careers, to serve Her Majesty and Australia. 
The Reserve Forces of Australia have been recognised by the present Government as a valuable- and costeffective component of the Defence Forces. Anomalously, whilst the Government is actually supporting recruiting for these Forces it has imposed and continued this deprivation which as foresaid has depressed the morale of the Citizen Forces. 
Her Majesty has not cancelled the said Decorations and Medal":. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray 
Your Honourable House take appropriate action to resume the award of the several distinctive Reserve Forces Decorations and Medals for Long Service and Good Conduct to members of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve, Army Reserve (CMF) and the RAAF Citizens Air Force. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: As he said earlier in Question Time in answer to  Senator Wriedt  's question that as far as he could recall no report had been made back to him by  Mr Pearson  about passing the Minister's message on to the Queensland distribution commissioners, will the Minister undertake to search his records of phone calls and correspondence in order to be in a position- as I know he would like to be- to be totally frank with the Senate about this matter? 

 - Senator Withers has never been a notably fair political fighter. We have heard some mealymouthed tributes to him from some of his reluctant supporters today. But I remind him, and those who have gathered around him in a display of phoney loyalty, of another comment which he made on 4 November and which squarely indicates his political morality. In talking about the electoral legislation he said: 
I thank the Opposition for its 'semi-support' of the Bills. I do not know why honourable senators opposite should fear me if 1 were able to write the rules. I assure them that if I did write them they would be fair and just- fair to us and just awful to them. 
-Senator Wright says that it is a joke. I remind him of the old adage that many a true word is spoken in jest. I suggest that another little adage he might ponder is in vino  Veritas.  In any event, I say that the essence of  Senator Withers  is contained in the pseudo joking statement. As we are in the field of adages, I remind  Senator Withers  of another one which he would do well to bear in mind at this special, critical moment in his career. If he will read the newspapers closely he will find that Opposition senators are not the only ones concerned about his conduct. The adage I ask him to bear in mind is that he who lives by the sword shall perish by the sword. Of course I am not suggestingespecially in the light of the mealy-mouthed contributions we have had today from the Government side of the Senate- that his inglorious career is about to perish on the floor of the 
Senate, although I have observed over the last week and during the course of this debate looks of dismay on the faces of some of his colleagues at the exposure of his shoddy behaviour. 
-The honourable senator would not understand. I doubt whether she can follow the argument. I have detected looks of dismay on the faces of the Minister's colleagues. I am sure that his reluctant followers have been dragooned into voting to save his thick hide. But that may not be the end of the matter. As I said, even the  Sydney Morning Herald-  not a notably pro-Labor newspaperhas commented sourly in its editorial today on  Senator Withers'  eccentric view of what constitutes frankness to the Senate. I suggest that  Senator Withers  should be careful not to turn his back on a well-known political assassin who may even now be unsheathing his knife. 
If the honourable senator will read the newspapers she will find out.  Senator Withers  has obviously found it tiresome today to have to establish what to him is patently obvious and that is, that he is always open and frank with the Senate. It is not obvious to the  Sydney Morning Herald  and it is not obvious to us. As for the implied suggestion or argument that just the naming of an electorate is a storm in a teacup anyway and much ado about nothing, I think has been well and truly disposed of by  Senator Wriedt  who showed that it is not a trivial matter at all. The question naturally arises: If it were a matter of no importance, why has  Senator Withers  been at such inordinate pains to conceal the full truth from the Senate? Today we had from  Senator Withers  and from  Senator Missen  what I suggest is a most hypocritical attempt at a defence of  Senator Withers'  conduct in this place. I do not know whether honourable senators on the Government side of the Senate believe that we on this side do not know when they have party meetings. They know when we have party meetings. We know, as we heard it over the Parliament House loudspeakers, that a special party meeting of the Government parties was held at 2 o'clock today on the verge of this debate taking place. Are we asked to believe that at that meeting not a word was spoken- as  Senator Withers  and  Senator Missen  would have us believe- about the fact that a point of order would be taken on this very much abused sub judice rule? 
Nobody should know better than  Senator Wright  that the sub judice rule has been gravely misconstrued here today. The point of the sub judice rule- I am not canvassing your ruling at all,  Mr President-  as we understand it and as all lawyers should know, especially  Senator Wright  who, for all his shortcomings, is at least a good lawyer is that there are two points to be balanced. They are the public interest and any danger of prejudicing proceedings before a tribunal to which, it is claimed, the sub judice rule should apply. How can there possibly be any prejudice to the proceedings before that tribunal when the conduct of  Senator Withers  was not even a term of reference and when the evidence he gave there, as distinct from the evidence he gives to this Senate, was made on oath? How can it possibly be suggested that the tribunal will have any difficulty in what it believes about  Senator Withers?  Is it going to believe what he said on oath where the sanctions are so serious for telling untruths? 
No,  Mr President,  you have misunderstood what I said. I am saying that the evidence which  Senator Withers  gave before the tribunal cannot possibly come into question, that it was evidence given on oath. I am not suggesting for one moment he would tell a lie on oath. But there is a little more leeway in this place. It is possible to play with the truth a little. It is possible to tell portion of the truth. It is possible to avoid telling outright lies while, at the same time, misleading the Senate. That is the burden of our charge against  Senator Withers. Senator Withers  suggested to  Senator Button  that we had failed to give precise details of our charge against him. In fact, it must have been perfectly obvious to anyone listening to this debate that the Opposition had one hand tied behind its back and was unable to produce the irrefutable evidence which would have shown that  Senator Withers  did mislead the Parliament. This morning the  Sydney Morning Herald  stated: 

 Senator Withers' distinction; 
That is on the point of not telling  Mr Coleman  but telling someone to tell  Mr Coleman--  may not be good enough Tor most people. At the best he seems to have been less than forthright; at the worst, he misled Parliament. It is a serious matter - 
Of course it is a novelty for us on the Opposition side of the chamber to see  Senator Withers  taking anything seriously.  His  stock in trade in this place is to treat the chamber with contempt; especially to treat us with contempt. It is interesting to hear  Senator Missen,  and also often  Senator Baume,  giving the Opposition little lectures on how to conduct itself as an Opposition. But has it ever occurred to  Senator Missen  to wonder how an Opposition can continue to have any fervour for or any faith in the worthwhileness of asking questions of a Leader of the Government in the Senate when it knows it will be fobbed off with non-answers.  Senator Withers  has mastered the technique of treating with contempt everybody who asks him a question. He even claims that he does not or cannot read the newspapers. 
This time, unfortunately for  Senator Withers,  in answer to the barrage of questions with which he had to deal last week, he lost his cool. In his long, rambling answer to  Senator Douglas  McClelland, he batted out time on the last sitting day of last week. Obviously he now  regrets that  because he departed from his general principle of 'tell them nothing' and admitted that he may have misled the Senate. He has obviously been in headlong retreat ever since. He has resorted now to his old tactic of 'tell them nothing'. If he thinks that anybody here was fooled today by the tactics used on his side of the Parliament to keep the most damning evidence out of debate, let me say that we on this side of the Parliament were not fooled.  Senator Missen  has chosen to praise  Senator Withers  for his almost boy-like frankness in this place, but we should ask  Senator Withers  this question which must have occurred to almost everybody: Why did he volunteer to give evidence to the Royal Commission? Did he decide only after  Mr Pearson  told him that he was about to blow the gaff? In other words, do we ever hear the truth from  Senator Withers  except when he knows that he cannot conceal it? I suggest that there was a strong presumption of that having occurred, in the fact that he appeared before the Royal Commission at all. 
One other factor that 1 would like to suggest before concluding is that it is of significance that only one Minister has seen fit to stand up and defend  Senator Withers  today. I wondered why  Senator Durack  did not give us the benefit of his thoughts. After all, one would have thought that this would be a matter peculiarly within his competence. Why were we not given the benefit of the lucidity and precision of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  or the clarity and forthrightness- I say this without my tongue in my cheek- of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)?  Instead all we have had is the familiar garrulity of  Senator Carrick,  who, as we know, could not be restrained from talking under water on any subject. Of course  Senator 
Carrick did not specifically defend  Senator Withers  at all probably, I suggest, because his heart was not in the task. 
He resorted to a ploy which has been originated by his very original Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  original also in his attitude towards the truth. The Prime Minister has mastered this technique of censuring the censurers, that is, moving a censure motion against somebody who has already moved a censure motion against the Government.  Senator Carrick  has learned from his master. We know of course that it does not do the careers of members of the Government much good unless they learn from their master.  Senator Carrick  today adopted the ploy of censuring the censurers. He did not say anything about the case against the Leader of the Government. All he did today was to manufacture some overblown rhetoric about the alleged behaviour of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  He did it with that mixture of sanctimoniousness and long-windedness which has become his hallmark. I suggest that we can disregard what  Senator Carrick  had to say because he made no contribution at all to the debate. 
Finally, 1 refer to an interjection which  Senator Withers  was stung into making when he heard my name mentioned. I do not know why he should feel anything except his normal charity towards me. He made some reference to the lion and the jackal, with me presumably cast in the role of the jackal and himself cast in the role of the lion, which I would have thought was a little bit conceited. Passing over that aspect, I remind him that the lion has always been known as the king of the jungle. That is what he is: A very temporary king of the jungle into which he has turned Australian politics. But he should bear in mind that this jungle is a dangerous place and other ravening beasts, even more dangerous than an overfed lion, are around and one may be waiting now to devour him when he least expects it. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Is it correct that the proposed Casey UniversityAustralian Defence Force Academy will have an initial enrolment of 1,250 students? Has the advice of the Australian Vice Chancellor's Committee and the Tertiary Education Commission been sought on whether this number could be accommodated in existing universities and colleges? 
Despite the lofty tone adopted today by the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  the attitude of the conservative parties towards the Australian Broadcasting Commission can only be described as paranoid. Let us get out of the stratosphere which is  Senator Carrick  's natural habitat and into the street brawling arena where his leader is more comfortable. I ask honourable senators to listen to what the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  said in a debate in this place tin 24 March 1976. He said: 
Do not raise the Australian Broadcasting Commission. You blokes have been leaning on it for years. It is full of your supporters and has been pumping out your propaganda year in and year out. That is not a matter of opinion; that is a matter of notoriety. 
I ask honourable senators to note the standard of proof that  Senator Carrick  demands of facts, as satisfied by  Senator Withers,  who said: 
It is not a matter of opinion; it is a matter of notoriety. 
I ask honourable senators also to listen to another threat to this great, independent organisation which  Senator Carrick  assures us never comes from his side of politics.  Senator Withers  said: 
The sooner it is cleaned up the better as far as I am concerned. 
When I appeared on television programs rather frequently some years ago I had an opportunity to observe that this alleged leftist bias of the ABC was a fantasy of over-heated conservative minds. I well recall one occasion when I appeared with a man whose name has been mentioned- Richard Carleton- for an interview. I think it was on the program  This Day Tonight.  After the interview I received a letter from a Labor zealot congratulating me on the way in which I had handled that anti-Labor fanatic'. That was his view of Carleton. Yet I know that members of the 
Liberal-National Country Party establishment have always regarded Richard Carleton as, at best, some sort of dangerous pinko. The fact was that before the interview with Carleton I had a social drink with him. Then we went before the cameras and he did his best to maul me. I think that I can say modestly that he was unsuccessful. Then we went and had another drink. He was merely doing his job of trying to put a politician in his place and I was doing my job by attempting to demonstrate that I knew how to handle myself. It would be a good idea if all politicians who submit themselves to an interview were to bear in mind the old dictum of Harry Truman: If you cannot stand the heat keep out of the kitchen. I never received soft treatment from George Negus. I have never asked Carleton or Negus what their politics were or how they voted. I would consider that to be as impertinent as asking a man whether he preferred men or women. It is not my business. 
The naivety of  Senator Carrick  in suggesting that somehow or other it is an attack on the integrity of all 1 1 commissioners to suggest that there was any political pressure involved in the treatment of Carleton, Negus or any of the other interviewers is quite staggering. Does  Senator Carrick  seriously believe that in the case of every contract, every matter concerning any servant of the ABC, the ABC commissioners meet and decide what the man's fate will be? If the ABC were run like that by these part time commissioners it just would not function at all. What I am suggesting is that a wink or a nod to the timorous top management of the ABC would be enough, let alone the threats of a man like  Senator Withers  or the implied reign of terror in threats of cuts in the Commission's expenditure. Are we to believe that these things do not weigh with the people running the ABC, that they are completely indifferent to the atmosphere created by political parties, not to mention the thuggery of the comments made by  Senator Withers?  Of course, I will refer a little later to an even worse example concerning  Mr Peter  Nixon. The fact of the matter is that to a political conservative in this country political objectivity, as exemplified by the ABC, is synonymous with political hostility. So accustomed have the conservatives become to regarding the media as their own exclusive possession that they cannot tolerate anything less than fawning adulation. 

 Senator Carrick challenged the Opposition to produce one example of a member of the Government of his political persuasion or from his side of politics attempting to interfere with the independence of this independent statutory authority. I will give one example for starters. Let us see how it satisfies his request for information. I refer to what was said by  Mr Peter  Nixon at a time when he was the caretaker PostmasterGeneral in other words, when he was the man whom the ABC might expect to be in charge of its destiny if and when he were to be something more than a caretaker. He said: 
Never in its history will the Australian Broadcasting Commission be under such close scrutiny as during the coming election campaign. 
Then he went on to suggest the appointment of an independent moderator from the judiciary. I suggest to  Senator Carrick  that that is as good an example as even he could want of interference in the independence of this independent statutory authority by a member of his side of politics. 

 -Does Senator Carrick believe that that is not interference? I suggest that what this Government has done to the ABC is best exemplified by the citing of a few simple figures. In 1975, the ABC produced 156 hours of television drama. This year, 1 978, it will produce 75 hours of television drama. The facilities of the ABC are appallingly under-used. Studio time for drama in the ABC's drama studios amounts to no more than nine days per fortnight. Let us contrast that with the position of the British Broadcasting Commission. Does any honourable senator opposite suggest that the economic situation in the United Kingdom is so much more favourable than it is here that the British Government, as distinct from the Australian Government, can afford adequate funding of the national broadcasting service? The comparable figures for the use of studios of the ABC is 10 days a week- that is taking double shifts into account- as against nine days a fortnight in Australia. This year the ABC will barely meet the standards of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal of broadcasting six hours of Australian drama a month. This, as 1 think was suggested by  Senator Button,  is the broadcasting authority which should be a pace setter in this community and which should set an example to the other broadcasting authorities and institutions in the community. I suggest that a government which can find $20m for a couple of private planes for the use of a Prime Minister should bow its head in shame over the state of affairs in the ABC which I have just uncovered. 
One of the most disquieting facts is the manner in which top management in the ABC has bent supinely before the chill breeze from Canberra. But that is not surprising when we examine the background of the ABC commissioners.  Senator 
Carrick suggested that we were committing some sort of act of cowardice, some act almost of lesemajeste, in suggesting that all was not well with the credentials of every one of the commissioners. He suggested with some horror that we were imputing political bias to some of the commissioners. I will not leave  Senator Carrick  in any doubt about what I am saying. Yes, I am imputing political bias to a couple of members of the Commission who were appointed by  Senator Carrick  's Government. I will list them.  Sir Bernard  Callinan of Victoria was a vicepresident of the Victorian Branch of the Democratic Labor Party. He has addressed a number of closed National Civic Council functions.  Mr Fraser  appointed him in September 1977.  Dr Rupert  Goodman of Queensland, another member of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, is an educationalist. He too, has been a regular  speaker. His  specialty is the progressive plot in education. I need not mention the fact of course that 'progressive' in the lexicon of such a reactionary is a pejorative term. 
Is it not reasonable to ask why this splinter group of a splinter group is able to put two of its associates onto the Commission? The answer of course is perfectly plain; that is that  Mr Fraser  is well aware of  Mr Santamaria  's obsession with and hatred of the ABC.  Mr Fraser  seeks to harness this obsession to further his own crusade and that of his Government against the ABC. Time and again on his television program  Mr Santamaria  has returned to the leftist conspiracy within the ABC.  His  magazine,  News Weekly,  is devoted almost as much to the evils of the ABC as it is to the Red menace in the Indian Ocean. He has even found subversives in religious broadcasts. On the commission- I make no criticism of  Mr Laurie  Short who is a friend of mine and the opinion of him expressed by  Senator Carrick  is my opinion also-  Sir Bernard  Callinan and  Dr Rupert  Goodman have been the hardliners. The most farcical example of that was adverted to by  Senator Button,  although he did not name  Sir Bernard  Callinan, who demanded that he should be supplied in advance with the names of potential speakers on a new science book review program. This pressure has had its effect on the weak-kneed middle management. Censorship and discouragement of innovation at that level is crucial because it never gets on paper. A manifestation of this discontent is in the fact that yesterday at noon a deputation of radio producers saw  Mr K.  Mackriell, the Assistant General Manager, Radio, to discuss the appallingly low level of staff morale in the ABC.  Senator Ryan  quoted a few of the remarks of the 
Minister of Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Staley,  in an interview which he conducted on  Broadband  recently. I would like to mention a couple of others. He said: 
. I think that some things which have occurred could have led some honest seekers after the truth to wonder a bit at times about the intentions of the Government in respect of the ABC . . . 
That is a beautiful understatement but one which shows some recognition on that side of politics that there is some ground for suspicion. He said: 
. I believe that the ABC is so important to life in this country that I can hardly feel that life in Australia would be worth while without the ABC. 

 Mr Staley said that he had always been a: 
. defender . . . against people on this or that side of politics including of course people in my own party who believe that the ABC is an unpleasant force which is only doing damage. 
If  Senator Carrick  finds it mysterious that there are people on our side of politics who have their suspicions about his vaunted respect for the independence of this statutory body. I suggest to him that he should listen to some of the voices in his own party. It may be that some confort is to be taken from the fact that the Minister who is nominally responsible for the administration of the ABC should hold these highly enlightened opinions about the ABC. I do not for a moment question  Mr Staley  's sincerity on this matter. I am not suggesting that the Government parties consist of just one monolith of reaction. Every now and then there is to be found among them a man of some enlightenment and  Mr Staley  obviously is one of them. But unfortunately as we have discovered in the last couple of years, man proposes and God disposes, and God's real name is Malcolm Fraser. So we cannot take too much comfort from the fact that his Minister for Post and Telecommunications should have an enlightened view of the ABC because we have heard examples here today that  Mr' Staley  's views are far from universally held in his own party. Of course, it is already notorious to use the words so beloved of  Senator Withers,  that the Ministers in this Government do not exercise the authority which they should, but everything is ultimately referable to the Godhead. 
Even though  Senator Carrick  sees nothing sinister in the fact that George Negus disappeared from the ABC immediately after having been bold enough to have cross-examined the Prime Minister-to-be about the airy-fairy promises that he made, which later turned out to be merely rhetoric to deceive the electors, even though he sees no connection between those facts at all, we on this side of politics are suspicious enough of 

 Mr Fraser to see his hand in the matter. Therefore, although we applaud the statements of  Mr Staley,  we do not take much comfort from them. We do not kid ourselves into thinking that they are the views that will prevail. That is why we think it so necessary to say every now and then what we have said in this place today; that is, to warn the Australian people that unless they are vigilant about what happens to the ABC it could soon disappear as an important and enlightening factor in Australian life. 
I congratulate  Senator Wright  on his act of high courage in discarding a political party which he no longer needs. Having come here for nearly 30 years under the banner of the Liberal Party of Australia he is now on the verge of retirement, so he no longer needs the endorsement of that party. He loses nothing by his noble gesture. Over the years he has masqueraded as the great rebel. He has had several serious differences with his Party. I suggest that some of them have been even more serious than this one. He has crossed the floor many times. He has disagreed with his Party on matters so diverse as life insurance; land tax; civil aviation; matters affecting the sugar, wool, meat and wheat industries; on parliamentary retiring allowances in both 1955 and 1959; on parliamentary allowances in 1959 and 1967; on the stevedoring industry; on tariffs and customs; on matrimonial causes; on broadcasting and television; on the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Act; on trade practices; on constitutional alteration and on many other matters. 
The question naturally arises: Why did he not take the step which he is now taking on any of those matters? The reason is obvious. He wanted to enjoy the luxury of criticising and voting against his Party and, at the same time, having its support at election time. He saved up his act of high courage until a time when it would cost him nothing. He has cried poor here today, as is his habit. Of course, he has always been in a position to take risks. 

 - Mr President, I wish to speak to the point of order. Everything I have said is highly relevant for this reason:  Senator Wright  in his speech and in public statements since he took his stand has taken a note of moral indignation towards the rest of us. Frequently here today he has spoken of rapacity. He has branded the Bill as corrupt. I think it is perfectly in order for me to impugn his motives and to show that he is in no position to take that attitude towards honourable senators who support the Bill. 
