In rising to support the motion. I extend to you,  Sir, my  sincere congratulations on your appointment. I know that you will fulfil your duties in a capable, unbiased and forthright manner. I extend to  Senator Webster  my congratulations on his appointment as  Chairman  of Committees. I am pleased that there are 3 other women senators. I single them out for this reason only. I extend to  Senator Guilfoyle,  who is the most experienced of the female senators, my congratulation on her appointment to the shadow Ministry. I am confident that she will fulfil her role to the best of her ability. I extend my best wishes to  Senator Martin  for a successful future in the Senate. I congratulate my colleague,  Senator Melzer,  on moving the motion for the Address-in-Reply. I know that the people in Victoria are well represented in this chamber by  Senator Melzer.  I also extend my congratulations to the new male senators. 
I have devoted my opening remarks to women for a purpose other than that I am one.  Senator Melzer,  in her speech yesterday, spoke about the needs of women in our society. I put it to the Senate that a great number of issues which are loosely termed women's issues have developed only because there has been an inequitable number of women members of Parliament, not only in this chamber but also in the other place. Out of 1 87 members there are only 5 women. I hope that I shall be present at a time when there is a more equal representation. In earlier discussion mention was made of discrimination against women. With all that this Government is doing to end discrimination through employment and other channels, I can express only concern and a little surprise that there is discrimination in the Parliament. I refer honourable senators to the handbook which is issued to all members and senators and which lists the services and amenities available. There is no mention of husbands of either members or senators. There is constant reference to wives, and, in the case of a widower member, a nominee may be appointed. I know that privileges are extended to our husbands and families in exactly the same way as privileges are extended to the wives and families of male members. Perhaps the use of the word 'spouse' may be considered. 
I turn from the slightly facetious to more practical and urgent matters. Women in our society are finding difficulties and even impossible barriers in some areas. I refer to the obtaining of finance- for instance, housing finance, hire purchase finance for essential goods and services and in fact finance for anything at all- without a male guarantor. This requirement in itself is discrimination. A woman in Western Australia at least- I speak only of the situation there- cannot be a guarantor for her children to attend tertiary education institutions when a bonding agreement is necessary. 
As a consumer advocate for many years, it would be remiss of me not to mention at this time matters concerning the protection of consumers. I refer firstly to the Prices Justification Tribunal and to the proposed amendments which were outlined by  His Excellency Sir Paul  Hasluck when he opened this Parliament on Tuesday. I am pleased that honourable senators opposite are concerned about the prices in the market place. At this time the Tribunal has not the power to enforce its recommendations and, therefore, to control prices to the grass roots consumers. With inadequate legislation, it is an impossible task, and it is impossible for us, as representatives of those grass roots consumers, to allow any delay in the passing of more stringent legislation in this area. I am heartened, as I am sure other members of my Party are, by reports from the shadow Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  that he would welcome stronger consumer protection legislation. Therefore I would anticipate not only  Senator Greenwood's  support but the support of his entire Party when amendments to the Prices Justification Act reach this chamber. 

 His Excellency Sir Paul Hasluck also gave notice that it is the Government's intention to reintroduce the Trade Practices Bill which was aborted in this chamber last year. At the time, that Bill was the subject of a very stormy debate. I believe that there were more than 100 amendments, consistent adjournments and ultimately debate was adjourned to a date beyond that of the double dissolution. Newspaper conjecture has it that the delaying tactics were used primarily because the consumer protection legislation was tied to the trade practices legislation. I put it to honourable senators that the trade practices legislation is as meaningful in its endeavours to afford protection to the consumers of Australia as the consumer protection legislation itself. At the moment consumers are being held to ransom by manufacturers, distributors, importers and retailers. I trust that there will be no more delaying tactics when this Bill is re-presented. 
I do not want honourable senators to think that I can speak only on the subject of consumer protection, but I want to get that term in its true and proper perspective. Consumer protection is not something that automatically turns on in the market place. There are much broader connotations. There are the consumer protective areas with regard to advertising- the type, the quality and the truthfulness of advertising which we allow. This can be said also of reporting- the type, the quality and the truthfulness of reporting. We have reason to question the truthfulness of the press reporting even from this place. There are also the consumer protective areas of industrial activity and legislation- the important legislation designed to protect the living standards, the skills, the welfare and the safety of the working men and women of this great country. The legislation and the standard of legislation for which the trade unions have fought for decades must be maintained and even improved. 
There are the consumer protective areas of social security- the pensioners, the aged, the invalid and others who are reliant on social service benefits to live in dignity. The aged particularly must be protected at all costs. In the past they were condemned to live almost in poverty. 
Yet their only crime was to grow old. I refer also to the consumer protective areas of our country's minerals and resources. It is only through legislation that we can protect our country from the avarice and greed of other people. I suggest that today I have touched only the tip of the iceberg. It would be fair to say that in most legislation there is or should be an element of consumer protection. 
Finally, I should like to take this opportunity to thank the people of Western Australia for the confidence that they have placed in me and to assure them that I shall work in this place to the utmost of my ability to protect their interests. I support the motion moved by  Senator Melzer. 
-I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: Is it a fact that artificial limbs are provided free of charge by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation to persons other than ex-servicemen? 
-I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to an article which appears in the Australian' of today's date and which states that the Minister for Defence will be leaving Australia next week to visit Germany and that while there he will study the union concept in West Germany where trades unions are permitted to operate in its military organisations. Can the Minister advise whether the Government is intending to institute a similar arrangement for the Australian armed Services? 
I ask the Minister for the Media whether his Department has undertaken any surveys to determine the contribution, employment conditions and status of women in the media. Does the Minister recognise the increasing significance afforded women's issues both in the media and society generally? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport seen an article which appeared in the 'Australian' on Tuesday last reporting that the New South Wales Government will ban the sale of children's safety harnesses that do not meet strict standards? If so, can the Minister advise whether the Australian Government is in agreement with that move in New South Wales and whether it is intended to ensure that similar action is taken in other States of Australia? If so, in what manner would this be instituted? 
I am rather surprised that I should have to debate a Bill of this nature in this House, considering the pre-election Press publicity gained by members of the Opposition. I will refer to a couple of examples of that publicity. In the Sydney Morning Herald' of 1 May, 17 days prior to the election, the Federal Opposition spokesman on legal matters,  Senator Greenwood,  who unfortunately is not in the chamber at the moment, was reported as saying: 
Consumers were the victims of the mass sell. There should be national consumer standards. Consumers were totally at the mercy of the big companies and the consumer needed ail the assistance he could get. 

 - Senator Greenwood said all these things. It is rather tragic that he has suddenly changed his mind with regard to the need for consumer protection legislation in Australia. I am concerned that there is so much opposition to this measure, particularly in view of the remarks I have quoted. One of the most important statements made on this subject by  Senator Greenwood  is his reported remark that at present most State consumer bodies are only advisory and have limited effectiveness. Yet we have heard his argument today and on other days about States' rights. We do not have uniform consumer protection legislation throughout the States. We have a hotch-potch of protection which is designed in some way to protect consumers. It does not achieve that end. Of course, it does not do all the things it set out to do. In a lot of cases it falls short because of the financial situation of the States. The success of such legislation depends entirely on whether a State government wants actively to enforce it. A State government may prefer to look after the big business interests which support it before an election. 
There are a great number of points in favour of some of the things that  Senator Webster  said, particularly from the point of view of big business. He referred to the 25 per cent tariff cut. I ask  Senator Webster  Will he tell us, please, who took advantage of the 25 per cent tariff cut? It was not the consumers, I can assure him; it was the big business people whom he is endeavouring to defend at this time and who did not pass the 25 per cent tariff cuts on to the consumers. 
If  Senator Webster  wants any evidence of this, I suggest that he get in touch with any of the consumer organisations operating throughout Australia. We have all the figures tabulated. We can tell him, for instance, about the people who import goods for $2 and sell them to the consumers for $24. We can tell him about the people who import shoes for $2.50 a pair and sell them to the consumers at the retail level for $25.99 a pair. We can tell him about the imported foodstuffs which were actually sitting on the shelves at the time the 25 per cent tariff cut came into operation and were marked up once big businessthe importers and the retailers- saw their way clear and it suddenly was obvious to them that they could make a higher profit. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! Remarks will be addressed through the Chair. 
Let me just make this one point. This is a quotation from the House of Representatives Hansard of 24 July.  Mr Ellicott  said: 
The Opposition is strongly in favour of provisions which will give adequate protection to the consumer. At the same time it is vital that those provisions which protect him should not leave him in a state of confusion. 
I submit that consumers in Australia are already in a state of confusion. They are faced with a variety of Acts which offer them either little or no protection at all. I am sorry that  Senator Webster  has left the chamber. I had a little more in which I thought he might have been interested. If we look at the State legislation we see that South 
Australia has perhaps the most ideal consumer protection legislation. I do not think that it is as ideal as it might be, but it is probably the best that we have at the moment. Big business at the moment has the power, the strength and the ability to pay legal costs; consumers do not. It is not just a case of one law for the rich and one for the poor; it is a case of one lawyer for the rich and none for the poor. 
There is nothing new or very wonderful about this legislation. Academics throughout the world have been advocating it and recommending it for years. The legislation is not designed to take over State rights. But national legislation will strengthen existing State legislation and will afford consumers the same protection irrespective of where they live. This is perhaps one of the most vital things about the consumer protection legislation. One can go from one State to another- whether it is because of one's employment or because one suddenly decides that one would like to live in Bullamakanka or Oodnadatta- and find that the State consumer protection legislation is different. 
The consumers in Australia have been held to ransom for far too long. A comprehensive survey has never been made by any non-Labor Government of what the consumer bodies or groups want. I doubt very much whether  Senator Webster  or any of the honourable senators on the Opposition benches have ever got out and spoken to the consumers in the market place. They have never tried to establish whether in fact consumers are concerned about the restrictive trade practices legislation. They have never tried to find out whether consumers are concerned about the dramatic increases in prices that take effect because of collusive bargaining between large corporations. They have never tried to find out whether consumers are concerned about deceptive and misleading advertising. They have never tried to find out whether consumers are concerned about product safety. They have never tried to find out whether consumers are concerned about information being made available to them on the packages of goods that they buy. The consumers of Australia are concerned about these things. They are concerned about open date coding of foodstuffs, for instance. They are concerned about safety standards. But they are even more concerned about performance standards. 

 Mr Morrison, in his original speech; the one made back in 1973 in the House of Representatives said that it is possible to purchase an electric lawnmower which has a Standards Association of Australia stamp on it. That simply means that it is safe to use. It does not mean that it will cut grass. That applies to any number of consumer items and particularly to electrical appliances that we purchase for our homes. These are the things that consumers in Australia want to know about and these are the things that they have a right to know about. We have aU had instances in our home, I am sure, of pop-up toasters that neither pop-up nor toast. We have had food mixers that do not mix food. We have had washing machines that do not wash clothes. In part this legislation is designed to afford the consumers of Australia protection in those areas. 
For the very first time there are representatives of consumer groups on sub-committees of the Standards Association of Australia and this is in our favour. This is in favour of all of the consumers throughout Australia because it is the voice of the consumer speaking. The Federation of Australian Consumer Groups, which is being formed at this moment, will in actual fact represent one million consumers throughout Australia and their voice has a right to be heard. No one on the Opposition benches has the right to say: 'We will not afford you protection'. Let us go back a little and see what the policies of the Liberal and Country Parties are on individual rights, justice and law reform, consumer affairs and other related matters. The Opposition parties issued a Press release, unfortunately with no date on it, but it would be pre-election because it says: 
The Liberal and Country Parties will adopt a stricter approach  to  horizontal agreements between competitors, especially those relating to price. 

 Senator Webster argued a little while ago that price agreements were, on odd occasions, necessary. The Press release goes on to say: 
However, the Parties will preserve the current procedure of case by case examination of agreements and practices but on a faster basis than previously. The legislation will follow the form of that introduced into Parliament in late 1 972. 
I would say from the discussion that has taken place this afternoon that it is quite evident that the pre-election promises of the Opposition, or those on the Opposition benches, were never meant or never designed to give protective legislation to the consumers of Australia. In conclusion I would like to quote from 'The Consumer and Corporate Accountability' which is attributed to Art Buchwald, a syndicated newspaper columnist and well known satirist. He was speaking about mergers in the public interest. The article stated:  . . It was 1978 and, according to Buchwald's prescience, corporate power had become so concentrated in the United States that, after numerous mergers, only two corporations remained: Samson Securities west of the Mississippi and the Delilah Company east of the Mississippi. Still, in the public interest' these two giants desired to merge leaving but a single corporation in the entire country. After lengthy discussions the Antitrust Division in the Department of Justice approved the merger. Buchwald's piece ends with this announcement from the Attorney-General: While we find drawbacks to only one company being left in the United States, we feel the advantages to the public far outweigh the disadvantages. 
Therefore, we're making an exception in this case and allowing Samson and Delilah to merge. 
I would like to announce that the Samson and Delilah Company is now negotiating at the White House with the  President  to buy the United States. 
If we are not very careful here in Australia we could find that we are agreeing to mergers by corporations to actually buy out Australia. I think it is time honourable senators on the Opposition benches sat up and had a good look at what they are opposing here today and decide whether they are going to stand by their preelection propaganda- and they very often accuse us of putting out propaganda- or whether they are going to pay their respects to big business and continue to debate this Bill indefinitely. Government supporters would like to see the end of this sitting some time in the near future, we would like to know whether the Opposition is going to continue on in the same way as it has, thinking that being in Opposition means that it can afford to be destructive and not constructive. 
Sitting suspended from 5.5S to 8 p.m. 
Suspension of Standing Orders: Russian Musician 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media and I preface it with the remark that in my opinion television reception in a number of country centres, particularly in Western Australia, is inadequate. Has the Minister been made aware that this is particularly so in the Narrogin district even though Post Office statistics show that 80 per cent of households in the area have television receivers? Will the Minister see what action can be taken to improve the existing television service? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. He has already been made aware by questions in this chamber of the iniquitous Fuel, Energy and Power Resources Act Amendment Bill at present before the Western Australian Parliament. Is he also aware that approximately 14,000 people demonstrated against this Bill in Perth on Thursday of last week? Will the Attorney-General advise, in view of those two statements, whether he and /or members of his Department have examined this Bill to ensure that the United Nations Charter on Human and Civilian Rights has not been contravened by any section of the Bill? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration assure the Senate that the decision to impose restrictions on the number of immigrants coming to Australia will not affect the immigration policy of ensuring that the reunion of families holds the highest priority? 

 -Mr President, I inform the Senate that in considering the reference by the Senate to the Committee of the promotion of trade and commerce with other countries, the operation of Australia's international trade agreements and the development of trading relations, the Committee has decided to investigate the prospects of trade between Indonesia and Australia. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I am assuming that the Minister has been made aware already of the recent Press reports regarding the Bond Corporation's Yanchep Sun City project in Western Australia. Is he aware that residents claim that representatives of the Bond Corporation have informed them that there are ample employment opportunities in reasonable proximity to the project, there is a private hospital in the area, local doctors are practising, there are 10 schools and a comprehensive bus service? As Yanchep Sun City is 30 miles north of Perth and does not have any industrial activity in the immediate vicinity outside the actual building of the project, does not have a private or public hospital, has no local doctor, no schools and virtually no bus service, will the Attorney-General undertake a complete investigation of the situation to ensure that the rights of the complainants are protected and that misleading information of this nature is discontinued? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Science, follows  Senator Gietzelt  's question earlier regarding bread. My concern is not only about the price but also about the quality of that product. In view of the monopolisation not only in the bread manufacturing industry but also in the flour milling industry, will the Minister consider instructing the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to conduct tests on the quality of bread and bread products sold throughout Australia, such tests to include the quality of the flour being used? Will he make that report public so that consumers can readily assess whether there is any relativity between price and quality? 
I rise to draw the attention of the Senate once again, as I have done over the past few weeks by asking questions in this House, to the situation which exists in Western Australia with the repressive legislation now in force there under the rather misleading title of the Fuel, Energy and Power Resources Act Amendment Act 1974.I want particularly to give an indication of the ignorance of the State Government in Western Australia in introducing legislation of this nature which could be used and abused at some time in the future. I think the Senate would agree that governments change; the world changes; our lifestyle changes. No one could possibly try to predict the ways in which there could be abuse now that this legislation is on the statute book. 
There are certain sections of the Act which are not only repressive but in actual fact can be made retrospective. This is unprecedented in a democratic country, as ours is supposed to be. For instance, section 41 provides for emergency regulations to be made and have effect notwithstanding anything 'whether expressed or implied, in any other Act or in any law'. This gives the Minister the power to override centuries of common law rights, criminal law appeals, industrial awards and so on. In short, it gives the Minister power so sweeping as to be reminiscent of a dictatorship. Section 43 is designed to allow for a state of emergency when any situation exists which will affect the provision, supply or distribution of fuel, power or energy. So if members of a trade union, for instance, took action against a company providing any of those sources of power and the action was taken with regard to safety measures or wage issues, it would be enough to invoke these sweeping powers. 
These powers are even more repressive if one takes into consideration the most unusual and most offensive provision in the legislation. I refer to section 45 which allows for retrospectivity. So an act which was committed before the emergency regulations were made and which was illegal at the time could in actual fact be made valid if regulations were made at a later date. There is little or no provision for the protection of the rights of the individual in Western Australia. Indeed, there are some sections of the Act which provide for the delegation of authority to any person or persons for any purpose with the exception of the actual declaration of emergency and the actual making of regulations. 
Traditional individual liberties in democratic countries throughout the world have always provided for the right to refuse to incriminate oneself and that premises occupied are sacrosanct unless a search warrant has been issued. But under this legislation that is no longer the case. Regulations can be made requiring people to answer all questions on pain of penalty. Provision is also made for inspection of premises without the necessary warrants having to be issued. There are even provisions in this Act for the conscription of labour in the event of a state of emergency being declared. To say that this is an appalling situation is to put it mildly. No one in this chamber or in any other place should cast it off lightly. It is something which could extend to other States. The information which I have given has come from extremely reliable sources and I would like to name some of the eminent people who have spoken out against the legislation in Western Australia. They are: Professor Harding, Professor of Law at the University of Western Australia; the Law Society of Western Australia, in which only 4 members dissented from a report given on the Bill; various trade union leaders; Sister Veronica Brady, lecturer in English at the Western Austraiian University; and  Mr Leslie  Steen, lecturer in Law at the University of Western Australia. 
I am sure that most honourable senators are conscious of the demonstrations that were held in Western Australia prior to the Bill actually being made law in Western Australia. In actual fact some of these demonstrations took place while the Bill was before the State House of Parliament. But just to refresh the memories of honourable senators let me tell them some of the things that occurred. There were 2 demonstrations. One was a very orderly march on Parliament House which was followed by a rally held on the Esplanade; and on the day that the Bill went before the Legislative Council a protest rally was held in the Supreme Court gardens. Most of the media acknowledged that some 15,000 to 16,000 people were present. There were talk-back programs on radio stations which kept the people of Western Australia up to date with what was going on at the rally and the points of view expressed by the various speakers. There was television coverage from an outside broadcast van to keep those who could not attend the rally abreast of what was happening. Commentators in the Press and on radio claimed that it was the largest demonstration held in Western Australia since the Second World War. But the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, when asked for his comments the next day said with his customary contempt for the people of his State that it was just the usual gathering of people who had their lunch at the Supreme Court gardens to eat their pies. All I can say to that is that it must have been a record day for Peters. The resolution which was carried unanimously at that rally said in part: 
We demand that the Government test its leaders' assertions that it has the people's support for the Bill by submitting the measure to a referendum. 
Some members of this place may not be aware of the situation in relation to daylight saving in Western Australia. When the Labor Government took office in 1971 and endeavoured to introduce daylight saving quite a comprehensive campaign was mounted by the Opposition against a daylight saving Bill being introduced. The Labor Government tried for 3 years to introduce such a Bill. One of the first Bills that was introduced after the Liberal Government took office in Western Australia in March of this year was in relation to daylight saving. We now have the rather ridiculous situation that there is to be a referendum at the end of this period of daylight saving to ensure that the people of Western Australia do in actual fact get what they want next year. To me this is not democracy. If we can have a referendum on whether we should have daylight saving, surely to goodness we can have a referendum to ensure that the people's right are protected. The trade union movement has never been opposed to emergency legislation as long as it is not repressive. This Act is repressive in the extreme. 
I have drawn these matters to the attention of the Senate in the hope that an examination of the legislation will be made to ensure that the rights of individuals in Western Australia are safeguarded and that the livelihood of residents is not in any jeopardy. No State government should renegue or be allowed to renegue on commitments where there has been ratification of the International Labour Organisation convention and the United Nations Charter on Human Rights. I ask that the Senate now give consideration to what has happened in Western Australia and to ensure that no such thing will happen in any other State in Australia, and that to the best of our ability here we will ensure that nothing in our Constitution is contravened but that we will, if necessary, go across State borders and ensure that the rights of the people in Western Australia are maintained. 
I present the following petition from 626 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable The  President  and Members of The Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
We the undersigned citizens of Australia do humbly petition the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia that it might take such steps as may be necessary either to direct the Commonwealth Banking Corporation to preserve and restore The Palace Hotel or itself acquire the said Palace Hotel St George's Terrace, Perth on its present site so as to preserve and restore it in perpetuity. 
Further we do humbly petition this honourable Parliament to make such funds as may be necessary available to purchase the entire contents of the said Hotel from the owners thereof. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Since the Trade Practices Act came into operation on 1 October last, has there been any evidence that undesirable restrictive trade practices are being curtailed? If so, what is likely to be the short term and long term result of such curtailment? 
I present the following petition from 13 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Irretrievable breakdown of marriage as the sole ground for divorce, as set down in the Family Law Bill 1973 based on one year's separation. 
Maintenance to be based on the needs of all the parties in a failed marriage. Effective automatic permanent entitlement to an ex-wife to be abolished. 
Emphasis to be placed on rehabilitation and retraining of estranged wives to enable them to be independent. 
Custody to be awarded in disputed cases on the basis of a qualified panel recommendation and to only take in to account the material, moral, and psychological well being of children involved, not the possessive demands of their parents. 
Matrimonial property to be divided equally, taking into account initial contributions. 
Costs of matrimonial proceedings to be divided equally. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I rise to support the male members of this illustrious House who require that their mode of dress in the summer should be more relaxed than it obviously is at this point of time. There is one matter that I should like to straighten out. For those who have not noticed, I have in actual fact entered this chamber in a mini-skirt. 
I am glad that  Senator Poyser  noticed it. The point I should like to make is that these days businessmen throughout Australia accept shorts, open-neck shirts, long socks and shoes as common dress. We have an extreme climate in this country, or have honourable senators not noticed that? Apart from all those things, it is my own personal opinion that men are much more masculine in shorts, shirts and long socks. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I draw his attention to a report on page 5 of today 's 'Australian ' relating to ineffective suntan oils. As Australia has one of the highest incidence of skin cancer in the world and in view of the alarming statement made yesterday by 3 professors from the Department of Dermatology at Harvard University, will the Minister call for an immediate inquiry into the true situation here in Australia? Will he make public the findings of any such inquiry? Will he consider whether action can be taken under the Trade Practices Act if there has in fact been unethical, untrue, or misleading advertising on the part of some pharmaceutical companies? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. I refer to an article in today's 'Australian' which states that 24.2 per cent of letters going through the Sydney Mail Exchange are affected by delays. Would the Minister advise the Senate whether in fact such a high percentage of letters is affected and the reasons for those delays? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. The Minister has been made aware of the demonstration yesterday by members of the Women's Electoral Lobby and others at the Canberra Rex Hotel. As segregation is the worst form of discrimination and in view of the terms of the liquor ordinance, will the Minister advise whether the owners or the management or both are contravening the ordinance? If so, will he advise what action he will take to ensure that this type of discrimination and segregation does not continue at the Canberra Rex Hotel or at any other hotel in the Australian Capital Territory? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. I draw the Minister's attention to the Government's recently announced scheme of tax deductibility of mortgage interest payments. In view of the vital nature of this scheme to all current and intending home owners in Australia, will the Minister assure the Senate that no effort will be spared in bringing the existence of the scheme to the attention of the general public? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. In asking it I express concern at a report in the 'Australian' today which states that the Minister was 'too busy' to provide a letter of introduction for Miss Caroline Jones, a prominent television current affairs personality, who wished to make a documentary for Film Australia on Australian settlement in Paraguay. Will the Minister advise the Senate whether such a request was made? If so, by whom and when was it made? Is it the practice for the Minister to refuse such requests which could be in the interests of at least a section of the Australian community? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I draw his attention to the practice exercised by Gordon and Gotch (Australasia) Ltd, in Western Australia at least and probably in other States as well, whereby it compels newsagents to accept magazines and paperback books which are not ordered and a number of which are definitely pornographic. I also draw his attention to the intimidatory tactics now being used by this same firm with the threatened withholding or non-processing of returns, and cancellation of agencies. As the State Unsolicited Goods and Services Act affords inadequate protection for newsagents subjected to this treatment, will the Attorney-General assure the Senate that the Trade Practices Commission is alerted to, and will take immediate action on, this and other trade practices which are direct contraventions of at least sections 45 and 47 of the Trade Practices Act? 
I should like a point clarified,  Mr 
Chairman. My reading of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Standing Orders would mean that the words 'and a half' could be deleted from line 5 of standing order 407a and that the words 'or of one hour and a half would be deleted from line 6. Is it correct that there would be no deletions of the reference to time being extended by a further 30 minutes? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate requests the Government to consider a comprehensive investigation into wholesalers' mark-ups on food prices; 
That particular emphasis be given to the disparity between prices paid to producers and end consumer costs. 
-Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen the article by the Leader of the Australian Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  published in yesterday's 'Sydney Morning Herald', in which he expressed his views on filling casual Senate vacancies? Prior to the retirement of  Senator Prowse  in late 1973 did  Mr Anthony  seek an assurance from the Labor Premier of Western Australia that a Country Party nominee would be appointed to replace  Senator Prowse  if he should retire before his term expired in mid- 1974? Is this an indication that  Senator Prowse  's retirement was a political manoeuvre more closely related to the Country Party's electoral advantage than to his state of health? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. The Minister would have received reports involving large scale retrenchment of staff from Crawford Productions Pty Ltd, the television production company. Has the Government been approached about the position in which the company finds itself? Is this position symptomatic of the television industry in general? What assistance does the Government plan in this connection? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation: In view of the number of travel agencies which have gone into liquidation over past years, causing distress and loss of finance to consumers and sometimes even leaving tourists stranded in foreign countries, will the Minister advise the Senate what investigations, if any, are carried out to ensure that persons once involved with the administration of those agencies do no re-enter the market? Will the Minister also advise the Senate of the extent of investigations that can be carried out by the Australian Government into private contracts entered into by travel agencies with foreign airline and shipping companies, particularly those which supposedly provide cheap rates? 
I must confess that in rising to debate this Electoral Bill I do so because of my personal confusion. Some of that confusion stems from the attitude of the Opposition. I recall that some 1 8 months ago the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  made a statement indicating his personal support for electoral reform. On page 2243 of Hansard of 17 October 1973 the Leader of the Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  is reported as having quoted what he had said previously. The report states: 
The Prime Minister and  Mr Daly  will no doubt be disappointed to learn that the Country Party has no concern at all about the proposal to legislate for the disclosure of the sources of political parties' funds. 

 Mr Snedden made a similar comment at an earlier stage in which he indicated support for the legislation. I am rather surprised that there is now so much vehement expression in debate against this Bill by Opposition senators because that is in complete opposition to the thinking of the Leader of the Country Party and the Leader of the Liberal Party. I wonder whether it would not be a good idea for honourable senators opposite to get together with their leaders and decide whether they are going to debate and oppose any Bill that this Government puts before the Parliament just to be destructive or whether they are going to be constructive in Opposition and provide us with real examples of what they claim is the damage that will be caused by a Bill of this nature. 
The Leader of the Opposition also stated that he would like to see some amendment relating to the tax deductibility of donations. That might be a matter that could be considered in the Committee stage of this Bill. However, the Leader of the Opposition then went on to express concern about there being no retrospectivity in the proposed legislation. Frankly, I cannot see a great deal of value to be gained in knowing that  Mr Fred  Bloggs donated £100 to the political party of his choice back in 1956, but I can see some merit to be gained in knowing that a large corporation or organisation has donated considerable funds to a particular political party of its choice now or that it proposes to do so in the future. 
We have heard it said during this debate that this Bill would limit the number of people who are prepared to stand for Parliament. I do not believe that is so. I believe that if Tom Jones or Bill Smith down the road wants to stand as a candidate in an election and he knows the amount of money he is allowed to spend, as people do under the law at the moment although the law is being violated, he would be more likely to stand because he knew he could afford to or could raise the required amount of money. This brings me to a rather interesting cutting I have from a newspaper. This point was raised in the other House by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly).  This cutting is from the 'Illawarra Mercury' of 14 January 1975 and it bears the heading 'Liberal Plans $40,000 Fight'. The article refers to a  Mr Marsden  who is planning a $40,000 campaign in an endeavour to unseat the Labor member  Mr J.  Kerin. Under the existing Act he is entitled to spend $500 on his election campaign but he has no compunction whatsoever about spending $40,000. In fact he has generally publicised the fact that he is prepared to raise and spend $40,000 for a campaign. 
Yes, I believe he does represent the law and order party which goes under the heading of Liberal Party in this place. Under the existing Act he would be allowed to spend only $500. Under this proposed legislation he would be entitled, in an electorate of roughly 82 000 people, to spend $6,150. This would enable any man in the street to mount a campaign to match his, but how many people would be deterred from seeking parliamentary appointment purely and simply because they knew they could not raise a like amount and knew that the fight was unequal from the start? 
We recently heard  Senator Missen  say that all of the unions are lined up on one side. I presume he was implying that all of the trade unions throughout Australia make donations to the Labor Party. I would like to correct him. All of the trade unions are not necessarily on one side. If they were we would have sane government by the Australian Labor Party all the time and it would be impossible for the Liberal-Country Party coalition to ever govern us. 
The honourable senator is wrong. A number of unions in Western Australia are on side with the now defunct Democratic Labor Party or make contributions to particular political parties or to particular political candidates. 
Indeed, as I am reminded by my colleague from Western Australia, there are a lot of non-affiliated unions. One of the things that the Australian elector is entitled to know is how much money is spent by political candidates and political parties on elections. We had an exercise forced on us by the Opposition in May last year and we had to say to the Australian people: 'We are now being forced to spend an awful lot of the taxpayers money, your money, on holding another election.' Today I understand that the cost of an election is in excess of $4.5m. This is the taxpayers money we are talking about. Surely the same taxpayers have a right to know, and we have a responsibility to tell them, exactly how much money we are spending in an endeavour to get into this House or the other House. 
Reference has been made in this debate to the amount of Press and other publicity available to governments in office. There has been reference to the facilities of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the staff of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  Honourable senators opposite might be interested to know that the situation is not quite as easy as they seem to think, particularly in Western Australia where there is a pro Liberal-Country Party coalition Press. It is impossible to get the name of a Western Australian member or senator published in that newspaper and it is also impossible to get it to recognise that the Australian Government has contributed in any way to the wellbeing of the people who actually elect the representatives from that State. Over the past few months, particularly since May of last year, we have found that unless we are being sensational and unless we are doing something quite dramatic the 'West Australian ' has no interest in anything any member of the Australian Government Party does, whether it is representing a Minister or whether it is purely and simply making a statement on behalf of the people we have been chosen to represent. 
We could stand here and say- as  Senator Missen  did- that the party agents and official agents following an election have to fill in returns to state from where the funds have been received and where they have been expended. Is this any different from company secretaries who do much the same thing? Surely an agent could be regarded as a part time company secretary. We look at public companies and we see the structure of the organisation. We can get information on the directors and on their financial standing. We look at corporations or public companies and we assess for ourselves whether we want to support them. Is there any difference between saying I shall take out 500 shares in Tom Smith's uranium mine' and saying 'I shall donate $500 to apolitical party'? 
I refer honourable senators to a letter dated 1 May 1974 which was immediately before the Opposition took the Australian people to the polls quite unnecessarily. It was a quite unwarranted election which still has not been paid for by the Australian taxpayers. The letter is written on the letter head of the Leader of the Australian Country Party. It requests finance for the 'electoral battles' of the Country Party. They are  Mr Anthony's  words, not mine. The postscript states: 
You may be interested to know that donations to the Fighting Fund so far vary from $ 10 to $5,000. 
When we look at the accompanying slip we find that only those donations between $1,000 and $5,000 are listed. Amongst those donations is one from  Senator J.  J. Webster of Victoria. He donated a total of $2,000 to the fighting fund of the Australian Country Party. Perhaps this is a good indication of why members of the Australian Country Party do not want the information published and made available to the general public of Australia. 
He was extremely generous. Of course it came out of his parliamentary allowance. Where it comes from really is not the concern of this Bill, as long as it is made public knowledge. The Bill is asking that people in fact make this public knowledge.  Senator Missen  in his speech on Thursday of last week stated: 
There are 4 purposes, in general terms, in this Bill. Regrettably they are party purposes. They come forth as a distillation of those things which will serve best the Labor Party and which will most disadvantage, in the opinion of the propounders of the Bill, the Opposition. 
In effect this Bill is an equaliser. It will make all parties equal because each party and each candidate will have to provide the same material. I believe that a certain amount of gilding is being done by the Opposition in an endeavour to close the gaps in the statements which were made by both the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the other place and in public that they would be genuinely supporting this Bill when and if it came to fruition. It has now come to fruition and we find them vehemently denying the people of 
Australia the right to know where political parties gain their funds. Surely this could be considered politically educational for the members of the public. They may like to know, in the event of proposed legislation coming forward, that the thinking of the government in office at the time could have been influenced by major donations being made to that political party. 
I think that is a good reason. That is reason enough why this Bill should be put through the Senate with as little delay as possible and made law as soon as possible. If the Opposition has nothing to hide, I do not see any reason why it should not support the Bill. On 2 occasions in this debate I have mentioned that both the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Country Partysignified that they would support the Bill. From the vehement denial of rights to the Australian people I can only assume that the members of both the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party find that they have a great deal to hide from the Australian people. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security confirm that benefits will be payable under the Government's new Medibank health scheme for people who attend an optometrist to obtain spectacles? In what circumstances will these benefits be paid? Will they be available to consumers in states such as Western Australia where the State Liberal Government has indicated that it will not support Medibank? 
-Will the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation tell the Senate what women's rights are under the existing repatriation legislation? Is their status equal to that of men? If the answer is no, and if he has not already done so, will he take action to ensure that any discrimination against women is eliminated, particularly during International Women's Year? 
I wish to ask a supplementary question. I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: If there is this discrimination, be it against men or against women, will he make recommendations for it to be removed, particularly during International Women 's Year? 
Has the Minister for Agriculture seen reports that canned meat imports are undermining the domestic meat market? Is there any truth in such reports? What is the volume of canned meat imports? What percentage are they of Australian production? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Has the Department of Repatriation and Compensation commenced taking claims from people whose property was lost or damaged during cyclone Tracy? Will the Minister explain what arrangements will be made for the payment of claims and what checks will be made to ensure that payments do not exceed the real loss? 
-Would the Minister for the Media confirm reports that the majority of Australian dollars spent on records do not remain in Australia but go to artists, composers, publishers and manufacturers overseas? As Australia is one of the highest per capita record purchasing countries, would the Minister advise the Senate whether the Government is taking any action to ensure a growing distribution of Australian recordings and compositions to international markets? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. The National Health and Medical Research Council has condemned the use of the Tronado microwave machine in the treatment of cancer. Two of these machines are in operation in Perth. As there are conflicting reports involving a large number of people suffering from this disease who are anxious to know whether this report is correct, will the Minister have his Department evaluate the report of the NHMRC as a matter of urgency, report to the Senate as soon as practicable and, if the evaluation of the NHMRC report is as condemning as newspaper reports would have us believe, will the Minister take whatever steps are necessary to ensure that the machines are withdrawn? 
I ask the Minister for the Media: Is it a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission sub-hires its television link between Sydney and Melbourne from the Channel 9 network? If so, does this mean that the link passes through the master control of Channel 9 before reaching the ABC? Does this mean further that ABC direct programs such as the ABC News' and 'This Day Tonight' can use the link only according to the whim of the commercial channel? Can the Minister advise the Senate whether anything is being done to rectify this situation? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Is the Minister aware of Press reports over the last few weeks that some television stations are considering screening films which have previously been classified 'R' by the Film Censorship Board for theatre screening? If the reports are true, what is the point of classification, particularly of those films restricted for viewing in theatres to people under the age of eighteen, when they might become freely available on television at a later date? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. I draw the Minister's attention to a recent statement by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board that restrictions will be lifted on the advertising of personal products, including sanitary napkins, vaginal deodorants and on treatment for haemorrhoids, for a trial period of 12 months? Is the Minister aware that the circular letter from the Broadcasting Control Board states that advertisements for those personal products may be broadcast and televised at times when the audience is not likely to contain a large proportion of children and young persons? In reply to a telegram I sent to the Secretary of the Board asking for more accurate definition of the times,  Mr Connolly  specifically stated that there would continue to be a complete embargo on this type of advertising during the times set aside for family and children's viewing. He has given the times as before 7.30 p.m. at weekends and on public holidays and between 6 a.m. and 8.30 a.m. and 4 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. on week days. 
I am pleased to hear that the Opposition will support this Bill, perhaps with amendments made at the Committee stage. I must admit to feeling a sense of shame that it is necessary to legislate for something that we white Europeans, as one insurance company terms us, accept as our right. I feel a sense of shame that we must legislate to allow people to live with the simple human dignity that we accept so readily. I was interested in  Senator Greenwood's  comments one of which was that there is no racism in Australia. I will introduce a little documentation later in this debate which may prove him to be wrong.  Senator Greenwood  said also that this Bill would declare illegal organisations which foster racial discrimination. I could not agree with him more. There is a great need to declare illegal those organisations which foster racial discrimination. 
The reasons for discrimination have never been terribly important. What is important is that there is discrimination. There is discrimination on any number of grounds. There is discrimination because of sex, age, race, colour, religious or political beliefs, an accident of birth, or otherwise. What is important is that we in Australia are perhaps not sufficiently mature to accept that people should be accepted just as people and not in those various categories and with those various side issues.  Senator Greenwood  spoke of the previous racial discrimination 
Bill that had been introduced by this Government as long ago as 1973. 1 would like to refer to a couple of the clauses in the Human Rights Bill and which I think are relevant to this debate. Part II is entitled 'Fundamental Rights and Freedoms'. Clause 7 of that part says: 
Everyone is entitled to the fundamental rights and freedoms as set out in this Part, without any distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. 
In other words, the Bill said that all people are equal. Clause 8 of the same Part says: 
Everyone is entitled without any discrimination to the equal protection of the law. 
That is what this Bill presumes to provide. 
Honourable senators will be aware, of course, that discrimination against women is nothing new in Australia. It is nothing new in many other countries. It is perhaps best described as a 'hangover from medieval times' when women were considered less valuable even than the household animals. They were treated as second class citizens, and even today in some aspects this thought still prevails. For instance, it is not long ago, it is claimed, that women were given the vote. I think that is rather a classic statement. Women were never given anything. They fought very hard to obtain the right to vote, and they fought for many years. 
I wish to refer to the situation in the United States. It was 1972 before the Equal Rights Amendment Act was finally put to both Houses of the U.S. Parliament. In fact it was first introduced in 1 923 and was completely ignored by Congress until 1970. It took them a total of 47 years to get that far. It took them a further 2 years to gain Senate approval. In 1975, appropriately enough International Women's Year, it is at long last taking its place on the statute book. Women have traditionally met discrimination when they have endeavoured to obtain finance, particular for housing and major purchases. Finance is available. But if one is a woman one must know where to look for it. One must certainly know where to look for it if one is a woman on her own. Financial institutions tend to regard women less favourably than their male counterparts when they want to borrow money. Yet I put it to you,  Mr Deputy President,  that a lot of women in this day and age would be more financially stable than their male counterparts. 
When looking at discrimination we must take in the situation which existed in Western Australia until at least 12 months ago when it was not even possible because of discrimination for a woman to sign a guarantee for her son or daughter to continue his or her tertiary education. If a woman wanted her child to become a teacher and there was a bonding agreement to sign, only a male could sign. If a woman was a deserted wife and had no idea where her husband was she had to get the signature of a male relative. The fact that that male relative may have been already fully committed to his own family or that he may in fact have been unemployed, or even that the sole male relative available to put his signature on a piece of paper may have been an alcoholic, did not make the slightest bit of difference. The little slip of paper distinctly stated that the signature of a female would not be accepted unless it was the signature of the widowed parent of the student. 
Not so long ago a situation arose in the Australian Capital Territory. A group of women desired to have a drink in a bar of a hotel and they were told that it was a public bar. The word public' is a complete misnomer. A public bar is for the use of the public and yet this group of women was told by the management that it was for males only. What is the true meaning of the word 'public'? To me it means all people who comprise the general public. But this particular bar was for men only. Women were required to drink in another part of the hotel where they also had to pay more for their liquor. If we are looking at discrimination against women in general we cannot bypass what happens in the Parliament. I remind  Senator Wright,  who is trying to interject, that Aboriginal women are included in the Racial Discrimination Bill. There are Aboriginal females. 
Sex comes into an awful lot of things. It comes into this Parliament. We do not find women in this chamber except as senators- there are precious few of us- and as Hansard reporters. We do not see female clerks of the Senate. I do not know whether any females have applied to be clerks of the Senate. But I do know that not long ago there was an application from a woman who had had the audacity to answer an advertisement that was placed in the men and boys' column of the Press for the position of  Clerk  of Papers in the New South Wales Parliament. While she had the necessary qualifications she was not even permitted to go for an interview. I do not know what her colour was and I do not know what her racial origin was. I do not think that is important. I think the important matter is contained in the reply from the  Clerk  of Parliaments who said that he had not allowed her the benefit of an interview because 'the position of  Clerk  of Papers calls for someone capable of lifting heavy loads. It involves shifting files and papers, sometimes in considerable bulk, and we did not think this appropriate employment fora woman'. 

 -Mr Deputy President, I put it to you that any male who would make such a fatuous statement as that would never have seen women at work in a supermarket. I would like to describe to the Senate what quite often happens. The woman has a baby in her arms and a toddler or two hanging on to her skirts and because she is not allowed to take a pram or stroller into the supermarket precincts- sacred precincts- she avails herself of a trolley which invariably has four wheels which all want to go in opposite directions. She ultimately loads the trolley with household goods for a week for a family of perhaps five or six. She eventually makes her way to a checkout point where quite often she is required to wait for an extraordinarily lengthy time. She continues to nurse the babe and continues to control, with some dexterity, the fingers of her little darlings who are intent only on getting into the little goodies which the supermarket managers insist on placing right up to the checkout point. She then has to unload the contents of the trolley on to the counter and then load the contents from the other end of the counter into bags and boxes. She eventually makes her way home. Any man who says that a woman is incapable of lifting heavy loads and files of paper must have rocks in his head when one considers the work the women do in the supermarket. 
The racial discrimination that we are specifically looking at today is just as apparent in many other areas. We have all read reports of racial discrimination, and some of us have been fortunate enough, or unfortunate enough, to see instances of racial discrimination. I have seen instances where people whose skin is dark have been required to sit in specified areas in theatres, to use specified areas in hotels, to sit in specified areas in buses and even in specified areas in schools. Some hotels have bars marked for coloureds only and they are invariably in a much poorer condition than the bars which are available for the use of the white people. The furnishings, if there are any, are generally those that have been used in the whites only areas for many years. They are battle scarred and quite often they are not even useful for rubbish, but they are put there for use in the blacks only section or the coloureds only section. Restaurants and cafes have been known to refuse to serve even our own Australian Aborigines purely because of the colour of their skin. The proprietors say such nice things as: 'Well, the white people won't eat here if they see us serving Aborigines'. How on earth could the proprietors know that if they have never served Aborigines in the first place? How could they know that the white people would not in fact support the restaurants? Sometimes the proprietors simply say that it would not do their business any good and that black people are not allowed. 
There have been cases of racism, despite what  Senator Greenwood  said earlier about there being no racism in Australia. Let me refer to an article which appeared in the 'Daily News' in Perth dated 30 August 1974, some 8 months ago. The incident referred to did not happen in Perth; it happened in the other golden State of Queensland. It did not happen to an Australian Aboriginal; it happened to a world renowned Negro singer. The newspaper account reads: 
Queensland police have apologised to a world renowned singer who they accused of being a wanted Aboriginal and took for questioning. Simon Estes, a bass baritone, told disbelieving policemen that his credentials were at a top city hotel. They could further check his identity with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The incident happened before  Mr  Estes's  Brisbane concert on August 3.  Mr Estes  who has since returned to the U.S., said before he left that he was shocked by the racial prejudice he met. 
I put to the Senate that it would take more than a letter of apology, or it would need to be a damn good letter of apology to make it right in my eyes if my skin were dark, for my having been apprehended and questioned by police purely on the colour of my skin. We had a bit more publicity in the 'Canberra Times' of 27 November last for Australia and Australians whom  Senator Greenwood  says show no racism. Australia was called the second most racist country in the world, eclipsing Rhodesia, the United States and Britain and beaten only by South Africa. The statement was made by a black British sociologist. 
The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  in replying to a question today talked about a number of insurance companies which have made claims that they will not insure to the same extent people who are non-white and non-European. I know of two such insurance companies. One is the Prudential Assurance Company Ltd and the other is the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Ltd. Those restrictions for insurance are not the only restrictions placed on people whose skin is dark. The restrictions are not solely the province of insurance companies. Financial organisations also discriminate against Aborigines. I can recall some 3 years ago when I was a columnist for a Sunday newspaper in Western Australia being alerted to the plight of an Australian Aboriginal who had fallen behind in his repayments on a hire purchase agreement. Whilst he had had 2 successful hire purchase agreements, both with the same finance company he had, for a number of reasons, suddenly become unemployed for a short term. Because he knew no better he was not aware that he could simply make an approach to the finance organisation and possibly no action would have been taken and a simple extension of his terms would have been granted. Because he was an uneducated person and his skin was dark- - perhaps that is why he was an uneducated personhe fell behind with his payments and eventually the finance company sent a field officer to Geraldton, some 300 miles north of Perth, who discovered that the man was an Aboriginal. All of his furniture was repossessed purely on the grounds of the colour of his skin. It was pointed out that a clause in the agreement stated that finance could not be made available to an Australian Aboriginal. Irrespective of his standing in the community or anything else, finance could not be made available to an Australian Aboriginal. 
I said when I rose to support this Bill that I. was doing so with a great sense of shame, and it does not make me feel any better having to bring this next document to light in a debate of this nature, but I want the people responsible to know- I have not heard from them now for some time and if they still have a mailing list I hope that my name is not on it- just how disgusted I feel knowing that they are living in this wonderful country of Australia. 

 Senator Greenwood mentioned earlier that the Convention would declare illegal organisations which foster racial discrimination. I have no intention of reading these documents to the Senate,  Mr President,  you will see they are quite lengthy. They are put out by 'Family Power: Families United for Australia'. Honourable senators will notice that the roneoed sheet on the front is underlined. I assure them it is the organisation's underlining and not mine. The document says such things as: 
Eighty thousand Australians were sacked to make way for 80 000 animals from the Middle East. . . 
There are 3 documents. I seek leave to have them incorporated in Hansard. 
-Has the Minister for the Media seen a report which I understand appeared in the 'Daily News' in Perth yesterday, and possibly in other newspapers throughout Australia, regarding advertisements on family planning soon to appear on radio and television in Canberra? Has the Australian Broadcasting Control Board listened to and viewed the proposed advertisements and do they conform to the Board's standards? Is there any plan at this stage to extend the campaign outside the Australian Capital Territory? 
In supporting this Bill I must express a little concern at  Senator Rae's  statements that there appears to be a lack of co-operation. I find in both the Bill and the second reading speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  a great deal of intention of cooperation. I refer  Senator Rae  to Part II, clause 5 (4) of the Bill. He will find that it says: 
In the performance of its functions, the Commissioner shall, to the greatest extent practicable, consult and cooperate with Departments of State and with authorities established by or under laws of Australia, being Departments or authorities responsible for aspects of the planning of, the provision of, the training of persons to provide, and the provision of financial assistance for, services for children. 
It says '. . . co-operate with Departments of State'. 
I think that in the existing situation there are departments of the Federal Government in the States and that State departments are normally concerned in similar areas and are generally taken into consideration. I cannot see any justification for  Senator Rae's  comments that the community organisations are not being involved enough. The Minister has indicated that he wants the community to participate. I query whether we should be setting down the qualifications of people who should be appointed to these boards or commissions. Who is to say that an ordinary parent is any less capable of operating a day care or after school care centre or assisting in the running of an after school care centre than a person who may have plenty of academic qualifications but no practical experience in the handling of the children? 

 Senator Rae also mentioned that existing private child care centres provide an adequate and significant contribution. Certainly they do. But 1 remind him that the amounts required to be paid to these organisations are generally outside the capacity of most families. I think that the provision in this Bill of after school care particularly is of great moment in our society. I have not had the problems that  Senator Rae  has had in getting comments from the various community organisations in Western Australia on their attitude to the Bill. Not one of them has made any adverse comments. They are all in favour of it. They want to see the provisions of the Bill funded as quickly as possible and they want this Bill to be passed as quickly as possible. I commend the interim committee for the work that it has done, but I should like to draw attention to the fact that this Bill also provides, as we can see from the second reading speech, for the utilisation of existing facilities. I have made mention of this on any number of occasions. It has always been of great concern to me that we find school grounds, school facilities, pre-school centres and kindergarten centres bereft of people from 3.30 p.m. on each day. We never see community activities there at weekends and we certainly do not see any activities there during school holidays. This Bill provides for the utilisation of those and other facilities. 
The Press statement issued by the Minister on 1 1 April shows that there is already a great diversification of funding. It includes grants for such projects as mobile toy libraries, the construction of kindergarten centres and pre-school centres, repairs to houses used by play groups, outofschool centre staffing, provision for children's camps and provision of equipment and staff for socially and emotionally disturbed adolescentsa wide range of provisions to assist in the full development of all children in Australia. Australia itself must benefit, as any other country would benefit, through culturally and socially adjusted children. I query  Senator Rae's  statement that a child should have its mother at home. I refer him to a number of psychologists and psychiatrists who believe that we tend to create a mother image in our children, that we leave them with a single image and that this is not always to the benefit of the child. It may be to the benefit of the mother, but it may not necessarily be to the benefit of the child. 
I think if we can establish, by this Bill, facilities where children can be looked after capably and can develop emotionally and culturally from an early age, we will all benefit. We will benefit in the situation in which there are 2 parents who find it necessary to work for economic or any other reasons, even if it is only fulfilling their own ambitions, or where there is only one parent. We find that already there are great stresses and tensions in these homes because of the demands on the parent's time in their business activities. We find that a great deal of this tension and stress is taken out on their children when the parents eventually arrive home from work. A lot of this will be allayed by the provisions of this Bill. We have already encountered problems in Western Australia. I do not need to remind Western Australian senators of the situation that existed there some years ago when a group of high school children became concerned for the latchkey children from the junior schools and endeavoured to set up play group areas in the school grounds after school hours. They were denied the right to do so. Eventually after a great deal of publicity they were able to avail themselves of existing facilities. 
There are a great number of latchkey children in our society, and it is the responsibility of the community as much as the responsibility of the parents that we have those latchkey children. Children as young as 5 or 6 year of age are coming home to empty homes after school hours in the afternoon. This must be of great concern not only to the parents but also to people who are not parents or to those people whose children have grown up. We have to look to social workers for guidance; we have to look to our community groups for guidance. We have play centres, preschool centres and kindergarten centres and all the people working in them create a wealth of knowledge and capacity to advise. I do not see any provisions in this Bill which would exclude them.  Senator Rae  said that he did not see that there was sufficient availability for the location of centres. The Bill provides that they will be set up in areas primarily to be determined by the community. 
The honourable senator said that we should be looking at the location of centres and we should not be looking to industry to set up these centres inside industry but in close proximity to industry. I point out that in most industrial areas there are existing facilities which could be utilised. This utilisation is provided for in the Bill and is stated in the second reading speech. Perhaps I am wrong in suggesting that the honourable senator implied that perhaps we should.be asking industry to look at these areas. 
As long as it is not suggested in the Bill or by the Minister, I would be quite happy. I certainly would not like to see industry or any industrial organisation setting up a child care centre, a pre-school centre or an after school centre that was not fully contained in the provisions of the Children's Commission Bill. I am most pleased with the Press statement by the Minister on the grants that have been made available already and the diversification of those grants. The sum of $43m will go a long way towards providing some of the facilities for children that are essential in our society. It will not go all the way towards doing so this year. It is not anticipated that it will do so. I express my appreciation to the Interim Committee of the Children's Commission. I am quite sure that other honourable senators also will do so. I commend the Bill. 
I have listened with great interest to this debate and particularly to  Senator Wright's  reference to the widows of contributors. I rise now to speak on that one issue. I am concerned at amendment No. 37 proposed by the Opposition. This Superannuation Bill surely must have one claim to fame in that a total of 95 amendments are proposed, which almost equals the number of amendments moved to the Family Law Bill. While speaking on the matters of widows' entitlements, I must confess that I am concerned that there has not been almost an uprising in our community at the injustices under existing schemes experienced by widows of superannuitants who receive only a portion of what their partner would have been entitled to if he had been able to claim full benefits. 
As I understand the situation- I am open to comment from the Opposition if it can prove me wrong- all superannuation schemes accept the proposition that if the actual contributor dies his widow is entitled to something like 67 per cent of the maximum of 70 per cent of salary which he would receive if he qualified as a maximum recipient. Let me take the case of a man who is due for retirement and who is earning $200 a week. If he qualified for maximum benefits he would receive $140, but his wife would receive only 67 per cent of that $140, or a total of $94 a week, which is less than 50 per cent of the breadwinner's earnings at the time he was employed. I find this a grave injustice. I am concerned that no one in the community has risen up and said that this is wrong. The contributions made to a superannuation scheme are made by a partnership between husband and wife. Yet we allow the insurance companies which bring down these rather marvellous schemes to say that one partner is entitled to more than another partner, even though the contributions which are paid reflect the life style in which those partners can live on the balance of the breadwinner's money. 
I find this rather confusing. It is even more confusing if we look at the Opposition's proposed amendment, which would mean that the status quo would remain. The amendment refers to the contributor's widow. I stress widow' because no mention is made of spouse. Obviously the Opposition has not yet concerned itself with the widowers. The Opposition wants to reduce the amount of 67 per cent, which is proposed in this Bill, to 62  Vi  per cent. So figures which I gave a moment ago, of $140 and $94, would become the $140 maximum if the qualification were there- I understand that that is a relatively rare occasion- and less than $87. The wife would then be entitled to less than $87 a week. She would be expected to adjust her life style which has been built up on the basis of a partnership contributing to a superannuation scheme which should determine the life style for her future as well as for his. Quite frankly, I cannot understand why the Opposition wants to have this reduction made. I look at the report of the Treasury Committee of March 1973 entitled Superannuation for Commonwealth Employees'. I appreciate that that Committee was set up under the Liberal-Country Party Government. This is what the Committee stated in clause 6.25: 
The table shows a rising trend in the relationship of fixed costs to private final consumption expenditure since 1958-59 when the widows' benefit was increased from  Vi  to % of the members' entitlement. If a benefit of % (62.5 per cent) of the member's entitlement was appropriate in 1959, then the rising trend shown by the table would suggest that a benefit of two-thirds or 67 per cent of the member's entitlement could now be more appropriate. 
That Committee was concerned in March 1 973 that there should be an increase in the benefits to be paid to widows of contributors. It was not concerned quite enough to realise that there should be equal benefits to both contributing partners. It was at least concerned that there should be some increase. But the Opposition is not concerned, even in June 1975. Quite frankly, I am shocked at this lack of concern by honourable senators opposite at this time. I must admit that I am appalled that they should propose such a measure as amendment No. 37 to clause 83 when women throughout the world are having to fight for recognition as equal human beings. The honourable senators on the benches opposite are the very people who will try, by fair means or foul, to turn all women back into pumpkins at the end of International Women's Year. There will not be any equity.  Senator Hall  spoke of equity. I would like him to consider my equitable proposition. 
I understand that the figures that have been put forward in the other place and by a number of speakers here are presumed to apply to widows' benefits under State government superannuation schemes. Let me cite for the record the exact figures. New South Wales, Tasmania, South Australia and Victoria all operate on a 66.7 per cent or two-thirds benefit. Even  Mr Hamer,  when introducing the scheme in Victoria, stated: 
Taken as a whole I believe it provides for as fair and as equitable a scheme as any in force or proposed in Australia. 
In fact, the only 2 States not using the two-thirds benefit are Queensland and Western Australia. In Western Australia we have our own natural disaster in  Sir Charles  Court. When he was introducing a Bill on 27 March this year he stated: 
I want to emphasise that this measure is purely a holding one. The authorities and experts involved are making a thorough study of the overall superannuation and family benefits provisions in this State. Of course, we have regard for the problems that are being experienced in the Commonwealth and in other States, because this situation is not peculiar to Western Australia. 
I take that to mean that at least Western Australia is prepared or is preparing for change. At the moment that State and Queensland are the only 2 States in which the widow's pension is 62.5 per cent of the husband's entitlement. I think it is high time that we made provision for the changing society in which we live. No longer does the little woman sit at home and wait and hope that her husband will be able to provide well for her and himself in the now and in the future. At this time we are seeing more and more wives joining the work force. Sometimes this is a matter of necessity. This was acknowledged by the Treasury Committee on Superannuation which, in its report, stated: 
The Committee recognises that within the community an increasing number of family units are becoming dependent for their continued support upon the joint incomes of husband and wife. 
The Melville-Pollard report of 5 June 1974 also recognised that more and more wives are contributing; it recognised that there is a partnership. The authors must have felt some responsibility if only because they referred to the contributing members' partners as spouses. They are no longer wives or widows; they are spouses. Even taking that small measure into account, it still would be necessary for a widower to prove a degree of dependence on the income of his deceased wife before he could benefit at all. So I return to the point I made earlier. Whether the member-contributor is male or female is entirely irrelevant. The contributions are still made from a joint partnership. The only difference is that one of those persons would be discriminated against, and the degree of discrimination would be much greater if the wife was the remaining partner. Whilst we stand here in our little ivory towers debating this Bill, even the members of the Opposition must take some comfort in the fact that the compulsory scheme to which we as members of this Parliament contribute provides for a five-sixths benefit payable to widows or widowers. 
It is very seldom that I utilise the opportunity provided by the adjournment debate to air a grievance, but I do so tonight as a matter of public interest. Over the last few months we have had an information desk installed in King's Hall. It concerns me more than a little that it does not appear to be adequately staffed so as to provide a service to the people who come to visit us here at Parliament House. On making a few inquiries today, 1 learnt that in fact only 2 people are employed to man the information desk and to operate the bookshop which is located next to the post office on the lower floor. Apparently, with the book shop open from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on a 7 days a week basis, the information desk can be manned by only one person from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. or 5.30 p.m. on the days on which the Parliament is sitting. One of the problems, of course, is that at least up until now the House of Representatives has been increasing its days of sitting, and the staffing situation at the desk is quite inadequate. 
I walked into King's Hall at about 7.30 tonight and saw 2 people standing at the information desk. I can only assume that they had some vain hope that eventually someone would come along to give them some information. But, of course, no one is going to do that after 5.30 p.m. because nobody is available to do it. The same situation applies at weekends. I think honourable senators would have to agree that Parliament House is one of the major tourist attractions in Canberra. Let us not lay claim to it being the major tourist attraction, but it is, at least, one of the major tourist attractions in Canberra. I understand that some tens of thousands of people visited Parliament House last year. My concern is that, even though we have provided an information desk in King's Hall and a bookshop on the lower floor, information on the workings of the Parliament still is not being provided to the members of public who come to visit us. We may say: 'AH right; we do not cater for anybody who comes after 5.30 p.m.'. But up until a little while ago there were people in the public gallery. I think that we may have some people in the public gallery even at this point of time. People are still entering Parliament House at as late as 9 o 'clock at night. 
What happens on weekends? Only one person works then and she works in the bookshop downstairs, because we have got to get the money in. But we do not provide a service at the information desk. People stand at the desk at weekends because the House is open to the public and they want someone to tell them what Parliament is all about. I suggest that perhaps the Joint House Department, which I understand is responsible for these things, could be instructed to look at the situation. As we are selling the publications of the Australian Government Publishing Service in the bookshop downstairs, perhaps officers of that Service should man the wretched bookshop so that we will be left with at least 2 people working 7 days a week from 9 a.m. until 9 p.m. at the information desk. 
-Mr Hillyer might volunteer. But we should have people at least from 9 a.m. until 9 p.m. from Monday to Friday. Also we should be providing a service to the public by staffing the information desk at least from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. at weekends. I do not expect that a great number of people will come to see the workings of Parliament on Saturdays and Sundays. 
I am interested to hear  Senator Cotton  say that the private sector has this as an established basis in its superannuation policies. That is the point I query. The fact that the basis is there does not mean it is right. It simply means more money is left with the private insurance companies. At the moment they are utilising it very well. They are using it to campaign against the Government's entry into the insurance field. We have to take into consideration the schemes in other States. Four States already have introduced schemes with a provision that 67 per cent of the amount that the contributor himself would have received should be received by the widow of that person. I queried in my speech on the second reading of the Bill in this House last night whether some concerted effort should not have been made by widows in the community, and by the contributors to superannuation schemes, to ensure that a more equitable portion is paid to the widow of a superannuitant. 
I was pleased to hear  Senator Hall  say earlier, when speaking to previous amendments, that the States looked to the Commonwealth to set the pace. In this instance the Commonwealth is not setting the pace. Purely and simply the Commonwealth is bringing itself up to the level accepted by major States throughout Australia. Honourable senators should look at some of the rising costs. I dispute some of the reports I have read concerning the Superannuation Bill. It is said that there are fixed costs and that there are variable costs. I dispute that a widow pays any less than a contributor for her bread, for her communications, for her transport, for her clothing. I dispute that she has to pay less for her rent. I refuse to accept that she should accept a lesser life style than that which she had been accustomed to as a partner of the contributor. If by some unfortunate means the contributor happens to die, should the widow accept that she is entitled only to such meagre portion of what he would have been receiving? If perhaps we reverse the situation and look at what he would receive if she died, there is no equity and there is no justice in the argument that this should remain at 62.5 per cent and not be increased to 67 per cent. I remind honourable senators that according to statistics there are many more widows in the community than there are widowers. We should be looking for maximum protection and maximum coverage for the majority of people in the community. It seems rather ludicrous to me that we have to debate this. I should imagine it would be something that would be automatically accepted. I am surprised at the Opposition's attitude. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Media aware that there is at least one company using subliminal advertising in Western Australia and possibly in other States as well? As this is considered the most insidious form of advertising, and recognised world wide as extremely dangerous, will the Minister advise whether the Australian Broadcasting Control Board has changed its attitude to subliminal advertising? 
I present the following petition from 161 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should pass the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
That an Australian Government Insurance Corporation will benefit all Australian women and men by offering equal opportunity for employment and insurance cover. 
That there is a need to establish in Australia National Interest Insurance so that cover is available against natural disasters. 
That the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will compete fairly with the general and life insurance companies thereby benefiting the industry and the policy holders. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will pass the Bill without further delay. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 149 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: ( I )That Parliament should pass the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Insurance Corporation. 
That an Australian Government Insurance Corporation will benefit all Australian women and men by offering equal opportunity for employment and insurance cover. 
That there is a need to establish in Australia National Interest Insurance so that cover is available against natural disasters. 
That the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will compete fairly with the general and life insurance companies thereby benefiting the industry and the policy holders. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will pass the Bill without further delay. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I draw the attention of the Minister for Police and Customs to newspaper reports during the recent parliamentary recess which carried statements that in New South Wales Narcotics Bureau officers had made several significant seizures of the drug hashish oil. Will the Minister provide the Parliament with more details about these seizures and, in particular, establish whether there has been an evaluation of the drug hashish oil? 
I am not a craven coward in raising some of the matters I shall in this debate. I find it hard to correlate the remarks of the previous  speaker  with any debate on the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill and I will at least endeavour to keep my remarks to that legislation. My colleagues  Senator Everett, Senator Button  and  Senator Grimes  have adequately covered the general aspects of the Bill, but there are specific points which I feel it necessary to make. One that I will come to a little later is the matter of discrimination. While I have spoken on this subject a number of times I feel constrained to do so this evening in this debate because I am the only women who will be speaking on this Bill. 
While I am sure that everyone in Australia is aware to some extent of the intensive campaign that has been waged by the insurance companies against the Government's entering this field not everyone would be aware of the amount of money that is being spent on that campaign. In actual fact the only people who do know, the insurance companies themselves, are pretty determined to make sure that not too many people ever find out the true figure. Perhaps it is sufficient for me to say that a great deal of money has been spent and none of it, I am sure, with the express permission of the people to whom it rightly belongs, the people who are entitled to a say in the matter- the policy holders themselves. It is their money that is being spent. It is their money in terms of bonuses or reduced premiums for their policies. This money, this finance which rightfully belongs to them, has been used by the insurance companies to finance the most vigorous campaign against the interests of those very policy holders. 
It is not so very long ago that I recall the State manager of perhaps the largest Australian insurance company telling me that the shareholders of his company were his policy holders. I do not think his company asked his policy holders or his shareholders whether they objected to their money being spent in such an intensive advertising campaign. I am quite sure that if it had taken the trouble the majority of the policy holders would have said it is just not on. I am quite sure that the majority of policy holders will, if not now at least by the time this debate finishes tonight, welcome the entry of the Australian Government into the insurance field. As the existing insurance companies have this type of money available and particularly if they have it available at such short notice perhaps that is an even better reason for the Australian Government to get into this field. I believe that if the money is available it should be available to the policy holders. It belongs rightfully to those policy holders. I am a little concerned that there have not been demonstrations even larger than those called by the insurance companies from irate and angry investors. 
If I had an insurance policy with a company that participated in the campaign I would certainly object. I would object to the extent that I would be cancelling my policy. But I am not without hope that these objections may still be made. I am not without hope that people who have allowed their money to be misspent and misused in this way may still, even at this late date, register their protests or perhaps we can hope that it will be these people who are the first in line to take out policies with the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. I believe that most people regard insurance as a means of building security around themselves and their families. Yet I question just how many of those people even read their insurance policies and how many of them sign to pay insurance premiums without actually knowing the contents of the insurance policies. In particular I question whether women, who make up more than 50 per cent of the total population of this country, are aware of some of the discriminatory clauses in most of those policies. 
I refer specifically to a letter received by a policyholder from an insurance company after she had queried an amended endorsement to her personal accident and sickness policy. I point out that this letter is dated July 1974, but I doubt that there has been a drastic change in the attitude of the insurance company concerned. The letter states-. 
The consensus of opinion -  it does not state whose opinion was asked for-  was that all disablements arising from menstruation should be excluded from this Policy. However, it was felt that this would be a too severe restriction on the Policy at this time and that the exclusion should relate specifically to the complaint in question. This disability exclusion is not to be construed as being selective on the basis of 'female disorders' but this complaint stands in the same situation as, say, a heart attack, i.e., having suffered once a person almost invariably will suffer further attacks. 
I have heard a lot of rubbish in my time and I am likely to hear a great deal more, but to refer to a perfectly normal bodily function in the same context as a heart attack must be one of the most ludicrous things that I am ever likely to hear. Young women can and do mature- physically at least- as early as 1 1 or 12 years of age, and that is a perfectly normal occurrence . I do not know of any woman who has not matured in that sense by the age of 16. Possibly there are some, but there would not be many. For an insurance company, or anyone else for that matter, to deny women their rights because of that normal maturation process is nothing short of criminal. Yet it appears to be the norm, or at least is accepted as such. No one appears to have complained about it, except a handful of women who are concerned. 
A document from another insurance companyunfortunately, this document does not have a date on it- under the heading of Endorsements' states:  lt is a condition of this policy that no claim shall be admitted in respect of a disability resulting from pregnancy or childbirth or any consequence thereof. 
Now we have an insurance company putting childbirth and pregnancy in the same category as exotic diseases. I have already said that more than 50 per cent of the entire population of this nation are women. There are bound to be some who have or could develop some disability resulting from pregnancy or childbirth, or even both; but all women are not in that category. Yet all women are penalised by the restrictive clauses in insurance policies. There is possibly a fair proportion of the male population who have or could develop some disability relating to the prostrate gland, but the insurance company does not consider that worthy of the endorsements or discriminatory clauses that apply to female disorders. 
I shall refer to one more example of the discriminatory practices currently being exercised by the insurance companies, and there are something like 300 of them. This document is up to date, being dated 1975. It does not have on it a month or a day, but I suppose that does not mean much for insurance companies. It is a personal accident and illness insurance policy and, among other exclusion clauses, it states: 
The company shall not be liable in respect of death or disablement . . . in the case of a female, caused wholly or in part through childbirth, abortion or pregnancy (even though accelerated or induced by accident). 
I repeat: That clause is included in a personal accident and illness insurance policy dated this year, this enlightened year, this International Women's Year, 1975. So if a person happens to be disabled as a result of an accident and the person happens to be pregnant- and one has to be a woman to be that- the company could and possibly would refuse payment on that sole ground, namely, the fact that she is pregnant. 
Let us look at another aspect of insurance and discrimination as far as women are concerned. Let us look at the executive type of insurance cover. Let us look at what happens to a woman executive, who could be the managing director of her own company. She may want to have the same type of insurance coverage as she provides for the male executives she employs. One woman of whom I know was advised that the insurance company she had chosen to give her a quote would provide her with a maximum of 2 years coverage, subject to a 50 per cent loading. After all, we women are the weaker sex.  Her  premium would be 50 per cent higher purely and simply because she is a woman. I should like to explain a little more the sickness and accident policy formula. As I am given to understand, apparently the accident component varies depending on the type of work one does. For instance, a white collar worker- male, of course- probably would be on the lowest scale of risk, while a labourer probably would be nearer the highest scale, depending on the type of labouring job that he was doing. Generally, the sickness component is considerably higher as far as premiums are concerned, and one can obtain insurance cover for a pre-determined amount of money to be paid each week in the event of either sickness of accident. So what those discriminatory clauses mean is that a woman pays 50 per cent more than her male counterpart for each $10 a week coverage for the sickness component, even if they are doing the same job. They could both be white collar workers. In fact, she could establish that she had not had a day's sickness in the previous 12 months, 2 years or 5 years; but she is still subjected to a 50 per cent premium surcharge. 
The policies of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will not carry such discriminatory conditions. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said, in addition to referring to employment opportunities for women, that the 
Government will encourage the AGIC to extend to women the same opportunity to take out policies as men now enjoy. Let us look at what happens if you decide that you want to earn your living on a parttime or commission basis, or even on a professional basis. Many women do work in that way. If you are a professional who is paid a fee for service, if you are a musician, an artist or a singer or if you work in the area of advertising- if you work not for a full 12 months but on a fee for service basis- and on top of all those things or any of them you have the audacity to be a woman, at the moment you need not expect to be able to get coverage from an insurance company because the policies specifically state that women are excluded if they work on a commission, fee for service or part time basis. I wonder just how many women who earn their living as doctors and are paid a fee for service are aware of those discriminatory clauses. I wonder how many of the male doctors sitting on the Opposition benches are concerned at the discrimination against their female counterparts. Would they consider, even though their counterparts are female, that they are still second rate citizens and not entitled to equality? 
There are many thousands of people- possibly there are close to hundreds of thousands- who earn a substantial living from such things as writing freelance articles for local or overseas magazines. There are hundreds who sing in the clubs, the hotels and the discotheques. There are hundreds who participate in radio, television and stage productions. Yet it is only the women who are excluded from insurance cover if they work on a part time basis. Many women work on a door-to-door commission sales basis. Women who operate the party plan system throughout our communities are paid either a fee or on a commission basis. They are not entitled to insurance coverage. A male who works on a door-to-door sales commission basis can obtain insurance coverage, but the women are not entitled to it. I find this an incredible situation. I find it even more astounding when considering the figure with which I have already provided the Senate which shows that more than 50 per cent of the entire population are female. 
Perhaps that is our problem; perhaps our problem is that we live longer. I am rather shocked and disturbed to find that many women do not even appear to be aware of the discriminatory clauses. I am shocked and disturbed that the men who work with those women, who live with those women and who rear those women, have not done much about the situation. 
Let us examine the formal discrimination that is normally shown to women when, among other things, they want to take out insurance policies. One of the first questions a woman is asked when she applies to take out an insurance policy is her maiden name. What the heck has that to do with any insurance coverage? What possible relationship could it have to the cover that the insurance company will give her, if it agrees to give her any coverage at all? Probably the next thing the insurance company will want to know is her husband's name- which is quite legitimate, I suppose- his occupation and the name and address of his employer. What has that to do with her insurance coverage? What difference does it make whether Fred Bloggs works as a drainage contractor or as an architect if his wife wishes to take out insurance? I have not yet seen one standard form from an insurance company offering a woman any form of insurance that does not require this information. 
Let us look at the woman who lives in a mixed household, which is quite acceptable in these days of changing life styles, where there are a number of females and a number of males. They do not necessarily have to be married but each of them may contribute in some way to the furnishings of that household. Such a woman may want to insure her portion of those household goods. She may not even be able to take out insurance coverage for those goods- it depends entirely on the insurance company- but a male in the household will be able to take out insurance. It does not matter whether he is unemployed; he will in all probability be able to take out insurance. Even if the woman has a profession and is earning about $10,000 to $15,000 a year she may be refused insurance cover for her household possessions. 
Because we are discussing insurance in such an important way tonight we cannot afford to overlook the discriminatory practices which were perpetrated against migrants who came to Australia from specific areas. I am aware that most insurance companies claim that they have excluded the more blatantly discriminatory sections in their existing policies, but I am also conscious that a great number of then would be able to find ways and means to continue the discrimination against those same migrants. Until last year most policies carried specific clauses stating that migrants born in countries on the shores of the Mediterranean, with the exception of France, were not eligible for insurance coverage. It did not matter at what age they came to Australia; they just were not eligible for insurance coverage. 
Most of the 300 odd insurance companies say that they evaluate such people now on a case by case risk measure. I have no doubt that a lot of people who were born on the shores of the Mediterranean and who have come to Australia are still being denied coverage even though the insurance companies are unlikely to give that as a reason. I have little doubt similarly that if such a person were a professional of any standing in the community he would qualify for coverage. But if his countryman were a labourer and applied he could be denied that right. The Australian Government Insurance Corporation will not engage in any discriminatory practices. Both the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  and the Prime Minister have made that statement. It will not discriminate in its area of coverage or in its area of employment opportunity. 
As I understand it, approximately 80,000 insurance staff are employed throughout Australia. Very few women have ever been able to become more than an officer, which is slightly higher than a clerk, but is possibly considered to be a reasonably high appointment for a woman in the industry. I think approximately three or four women have actually been able to become actuaries and are still operating in that capacity. I do not know of any who have become chief actuaries. That is not entirely the fault of the insurance companies but it has a great deal to do with the system of education which will now change quite naturally over the next few years. 
I hope that more women will have the opportunity to be in on the decision making side of insurance. I hope that as a direct result of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation's entering the field it occurs more rapidly than it would under normal circumstances. We heard earlier  Senator Wright's  satirical eulogy on the AGIC as another public enterprise. Even though we did not hear a great deal about the Bill we heard a great deal about his feelings on public enterprises. I believe that the consumers of insurance throughout Australia welcome the entry of the Australian Government into this field. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has he been able to obtain any further information about the alleged approach to the Minister for Health by a group of audiologists requesting an investigation into the activities of the hearing aid industry? This matter was raised during the adjournment debate last night by  Senator Baume.  Has  Dr Everingham  received the letter referred to and did he subsequently make contact with the writers of the letter? 
I present the following petition from 104 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
1 ) That Parliament should pass the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
That an Australian Government Insurance Corporation will benefit all Australian women and men by offering equal opportunity for employment and insurance cover. 
That there is a need to establish in Australia National Interest Insurance so that cover is available against natural disasters. 
That the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will compete fairly with the general and life insurance companies thereby benefiting the industry and the policy holders. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will pass the Bill without further delay. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question to the Special Minister of State relates to the development of an archival system. In March 1974 his predecessor announced that the Australian Government was taking steps to upgrade and expand the existing archival services. Important aspects of efficient and economical administration are sound records and archives management. In addition, they develop archival resources of great significance for informational, research, educational and cultural purposes. Accordingly, does the Australian Government still intend to develop these archival resources and services? 
I  present 3 petitions, identical in wording, from 100, 96 and 98 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
1 ) That Parliament should pass the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation. 
That an Australian Government Insurance Corporation will benefit all Australian women and men by offering equal opportunity for employment and insurance cover. 
That there is a need to establish in Australia National Interest Insurance so that cover is available against natural disasters. 
That the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will compete fairly with the general and life insurance companies thereby benefiting the industry and the policy holders. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will pass the Bill without further delay. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received, and first petition read. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security seen the article in the  West Australian  of 23 August 1975 from which it appears that a patient in New South Wales receives a rebate of $5.55 for a general practitioner surgery consultation, $8.20 for a home call and $ 1 1 .25 for an after hours home call, while a patient in Western Australia receives $4.85, $7.35 and $10.20 respectively, or differences in rebates between the 2 States for the same services of 70c, 85c and $1.05? Will the Minister advise the Senate why this should be so? 
It is perhaps appropriate that I should commence my speech in this debate on the Budget with the words of the previous Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Bill  Morrison, when he said: 
Consumers are the largest but regrettably the least organised economic group in the community. Every one of us by definition is a consumer from when we get up in the morning and squeeze our toothpaste until we go to bed at night and turn off the lamp, but more often than not we are quite ignorant of our rights and privileges as consumers. 
Perhaps one of the most important aspects of this year's Budget, particularly to the man and woman in the street, is the appropriation of $1.12m for consumer protection. That amount will enable the Government to bring into operation a number of measures that are designed to give the consumer the assurance that the money that he or she is spending is being well spent. In the previous Budget there was an appropriation for consumer protection but it was nothing of the  magnitude of the present appropriation. Consumer protection is long overdue, as is the establishment of an Australian consumer protection authority. It will be recalled that that was announced by the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  a few days ago. 
Effective consumer protection is something for which Australians have been waiting for a long time. If we were to look at the definition of consumerism I think we would find that it relates to the concern of a group of people that some of the products they buy do not necessarily come up to safety or performance standards. Perhaps the word 'performance' is as relevant in this context as is the word 'safety'. Consumerism is not new. It is certainly not new in Australia. It has been operating effectively for the last 8 to 10 years with a number of groups which work on a voluntary basis. Of course the Australian consumer organisation has been formed for a much longer period than that. Perhaps consumerism could be described as being something that is rather like Topsy in that it just grew, but it is here to stay. This injection of funds into specific areas of consumer protection will ensure that it stays. It will provide a form of consolidation and continuation for groups throughout Australia. While those groups may go under a variety of headings, they are all basically concerned with consumer protection. They see the problems that the ordinary consumer experiences on a day to day basis possibly even more so than the consumer affairs bureaus or the consumer protection authorities in the States would see them. The words used by the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, must give those groups in particular a great deal of heart. They will certainly strengthen the consumers themselves. At long last we have a situation in which a need has been defined and positive action is now to be put into operation. 
We are all well aware of the existence of the State consumer protection authorities, the consumer protection bureaus, the Consumer Affairs Council and the Commissioners for Trade Practices. What we have not had before but are going to have now is a body that will establish not only safety standards for the goods that we buy but also performance standards. I refer honourable senators to a booklet entitled 'Standards and the Consumer'. It poses the question 'What is an Australian standard?' and states: 
A performance standard is a set of requirements with related test methods that ensure that a product will perform satisfactorily in its intended use. Such a standard has, as its objective, the specifications of fitness for purpose. 
This is something we have not had before. We have all had the situation in our own homes and with our motor vehicles where we have made a purchase which we honestly believed to be a good purchase at the time only to find that there was no performance standard established and certainly no performance warranty had been given. 
We have all come to accept that warranties and guarantees provide a great deal more protection for the manufacturer than they do for the consumer. Unfortunately, that is a fact of life. It is equally unfortunate that consumers have come to accept it as inevitable. Similarly, we have come to accept a certain code of advertising which perhaps is just inside the existing legislation, but only just inside. We have come to accept that if we buy an appliance for our home, whether it be a major or minor purchase, and it turns out to be faulty the manufacturer feels responsible only insofar as repairs are concerned. He feels no responsibility to replace the article even if found to be faulty as soon as one attempted to use it. 
How many honourable senators in this place today have not heard or even experienced a problem with appliances in the home when the consumers have actually returned the goods to the store only to be told that the warranty or guarantee entitles them only to have the appliance repaired? In most instances, it is supposed that they will be quite happy to foot the bill for the labour of that repair. Possibly one of the reasons for this attitude of consumers, manufacturers, and retailers alike is that our marketing methods have changed so drastically over the years. I can recall my parents often referring to the 'good old days' and the small corner store. I think, possibly, the retailer at that time saw his role as a purchaser on behalf of the consumers and he gave his personal guarantee on products. Today, retailers are more than likely sellers on behalf of the manufacturer. If that manufacturer is not prepared to stand behind his warranty or guarantee, the retailer certainly does not feel that he should shoulder the responsibility. 

 Senator Martin spoke in this place last week about realities. The reality of this situation is that in the very near future the people responsible for the manufacture of consumer products will have to tell the consumer a great deal more about their products. They are going to have to tell us what performance we can expect from their products. They are going to have to tell us what is contained in their products. They will have to establish safety standards. They will have to be a lot more open in their style of advertising than they have to be now, even with the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. I hope that, with the establishment of the Australian consumer protection authority and the establishment of consumer standards and product information standards, there will be a much more critical appraisal of the type of advertising which we permit now, even though we admit it is just on the borderline. 
We have only to look at the first annual report of the Trade Practices Commission to see the type of complaints that are being received by that body. Similar complaints are being received by the State consumer  proctection  bodies. We find that in the first 8 months of its operation, from 1 October 1 974 to 30 June 1 975, it received a total of 1161 complaints and 20 per cent of those, or 346, related directly to motor vehicles. The report does not say whether they were used vehicles or new vehicles. That is not the question I am raising at this point of time. The question I do raise is that we have a major problem with our road toll throughout Australia. Yet we are  prepared to tolerate a situation in which a quarter of the total complaints received by a national body in an 8-month period relate directly to motor vehicles. 
The Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in his speech to consumer organisations not long ago claimed that the complaints to the State consumer protection authorities in relation to motor vehicles had been as high as 80 per cent. But we have a problem with the manufacturers of these motor vehicles who are not necessarily prepared to come out openly and admit that they have put faulty vehicles on to the market. We have only to read the  Hansard  report of the grievance debate in the other House on Thursday of last week to establish the type of malpractice that occurs. We are indebted to the honourable member for Swan,  Mr Adrian  Bennett, for drawing attention to this matter. He referred specifically to a publication put out by the Car Consumers Association of Victoria. The particular publication was entitled 'The Secret Repair Policies of Car Manufacturers'.  Mr Bennett  states, on page 394 of Hansard of 21 August 1975: 
Car Consumers' Association wishes to advise owners of the existence of a GMH policy relating to the extension of cover of Trimatic Transmissions from 12 months, 12 000 miles to 3 years, 50 000 miles. This policy only applies to vehicles built before June 1974 fitted with Trimatic Transmissions. If need of such a cover arises, contact your GMH dealer. 
That was contained in a public notice that was published in the  Age  in Melbourne on Thursday, 15 May 1975. There would be a lot of people who actually own such vehicles who would not be aware of that report. I ask: How many of them would read the public notices in the Melbourne Age, particularly if they happen to live in Western Australia in order to find out that they had an extended policy?  Mr Bennett  continued: 
It has been drawn to my attention that up to 500 000 consumers who have bought these vehicles over 6 years could be eligible but unaware of this policy. I am also given to understand that these repair policies apply to other makes of vehicles. I feel that there must be some way in which to give wide publicity to this situation as in up to 60 per cent of Holdens fitted with Trimatic transmissions faults have occurred and the usual repair cost of the Trimatic can be between $325 and $375, and perhaps more in some States. This is particularly appalling for the average working man who is faced with the cost of repair of one of these transmissions. 
I question whether they would even know that it was going to cost them money. I would question how many times in 6 years a car could, and possibly does, change hands. 
However, we sit back and we say: 'That is all very well. General Motors-Holden's have put an advertisement in the Melbourne  Age  on Thursday, 1 5 May. Obviously their intention is good '. I do not believe it is good. If they were at all concerned they would be endeavouring to find the owners of those cars. Even if it did take some time, the repairs could be carried out without more costs being added to those of the consumer who happened to purchase a vehicle and who thought at the time that it was a good buy. No one in this House or in the other place could discuss a problem experienced by any consumer in relation to a motor vehicle without referring to the specific problem of  Mr and Mrs Oros  of Red Hill in the Australian Capital Territory. I understand honourable senators received correspondence on this matter some time ago. Possibly some honourable senators have ignored it. Let us see what  Mr and Mrs Oros  had to say. Their problem was that they bought a car which cost about $1,500 and then, at the end of 5½ years, they had had to spend $8,500 on repairs. In correspondence to me, they said: 
Almost everybody to whom we have related our saga asked one of the 2 questions: 
What do we wish them to do about it? 
Why don't we sell the motor car? 
To me, that is just shelving the responsibility. Does any honourable senator suggest that they should sell their faulty motor car to someone else and let someone else pay the additional expenses?  Mr and Mrs Oros  go on to say: 
Perhaps somewhere in this country of ours there does exist an individual who may wish to raise a voice of indignation. We do not believe that ours is an isolated case. 
We do not seem to have proper consumer protection laws. 
Perhaps it is high time to have one- and let it be an effective one. 
We believe that we 'ordinary' citizens are just as important as the National or International matters. 
I have to agree with  Mr and Mrs Oros.  Ordinary citizens are just as important as national or international matters. They should have some form of protection to ensure that the money they are spending is being well spent. I wrote to the Commissioner for Consumer Affairs because of my concern with the problem facing  Mr and Mrs Oros.  I was informed by the Commissioner on 5 June this year that the bureau had commenced investigations into the complaint but was preempted from finalising these when the case was heard in the Canberra Court of Petty Sessions on 14 October 1974. The outcome of that hearing was that judgment was given against  Mr Oros  and he was ordered to pay a total of $309.38 plus costs. This man had in all innocence purchased a motor vehicle which he considered would give him a certain amount of service. It did not. He had it repaired and the repairs were faulty. He paid for them and subsequently he was taken to court. In respect of this faulty car which cost him something like $8,500 after 5Vi years he was ordered to pay a further $309 by the court. It is obvious to me that our court and our legislation need changing. Perhaps we can assume that something more comprehensive will be done with this consumer protection legislation. 
Referring back to the annual report of the Trade Practices Commission I find that the next highest list of complaints received by the Commission in that 8 months period related to household appliances. Of a total of 1,661 complaints, 256 related specifically to household appliances. Any housewife or homemaker, call her what you will, will tell you about her vacuum cleaner, her steam-and-dry iron, her food mixer and her pop-up toaster that neither pops up nor toasts. She will be only too happy to tell you about the attitude of manufacturers when she tries to get service on her washing machine, her drier or her stereogram when she honestly believes that it is covered by warranty. She will be only too happy to tell you also about her complaints with foods and beverages. 
Food and beverages just happen to be the next highest on the list of complaints received by the Commission. In all probability she will tell you that she wants more information about the food she is buying. She may even be aware enough to realise that there has to be a system, some type of system somewhere, which can operate for open date coding. We have  a  variety of coding systems in Australia at the moment. I imagine that the most popular would be the Julian system which is a combination of letters and numbers, none of which anybody seems to understand apart from the people who put them on the packages in the first place. I know of health inspectors in Western Australia who have gone around supermarkets checking the freshness and the quality of goods and who have been unable to understand the type of open date coding systems being operated at the moment. They do not mean much to the person who is buying the food and who wants to establish that the food being bought is nutritional. 
In the list in the Trade Practices Commission's annual report there are 24 categories and another group simply called miscellaneous. Even in the miscellaneous section there were 62 complaints and that heading could cover a wide range of services or products. 
I wonder whether, even with this provision in the Budget, Australia will become the enlightened consumer protective country it should be. If honourable senators look at the publication called 'Consumer Register', published by Virginia Knauer's department in America- for those who do not know,  Mrs Knauer  is the special adviser to  President  Ford on consumer affairs and the Director of Consumers Affairs at the White House- they will see that this organisation calls for not only public support and comment but also participation in any of the projects being undertaken. The one I have here invites consumers to participate in the development of standards for swimming pool slides. It invites comments about the Consumer Product Safety Commission's intention to require special closures on all preparations containing what could be considered lethal doses of drugs in order to prevent children being able to easily avail themselves of those drugs. There is a wide range of other subjects including distilled spirits, silver plated hollow ware, toy safety and register results. I query whether our legislation will go far enough to protect consumers in Australia. 

 Mr Clyde Cameron has stated that it is his intention that the Australian Consumer Protection Authority will continue to put our pamphlets of the nature of those that I have here. There are a number of them but they do not appear to reach the people who need them. One is headed Children's Car Seats and Car Harnesses' and I suggest it should be freely available from the manufacturers of the recommended seats and harnesses. Another is entitled 'Clothes burn- so do kids! ' This is a multi-language type pamphlet which states what products you can buy with safety. It also relates to the type of labels that are to be required. There is another pamphlet entitled 'A guide to storing food' and another entitled 'Don't poison your family'. They set out how to keep food fresh. These are necessities in this day and age where a lot of people work a lot of the time and have to take advantage of prepackaged goods because of the time consuming demands on their availability to maintain a house. 
I shall conclude by quoting from  Mr Clyde  Cameron's paper which he presented some time ago. In it he quoted  Dr Jeremy  Mitchell, Director of Consumers Affairs of the U.K. Office of Fair Trading, who said: 
The main aim of many consumer groups has been simply to help the consumer make sensible choices from among the goods and services already available. Very often, this has involved excessive concentration on testing expensive consumer durables. 
The situation in Australia at this time is as here stated and I hope it will be changed in the very near future. I commend the Budget and I reject the amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Matters Relating to the Public Service. I ask: Has the Minister seen Press reports today relating to the appointment of  Ms Gail  Wilenski to a position with the Australian Public Service Board and the statement by the Opposition's spokesman on the Public Service implying that this was a 'political appointment'? Is  Ms Wilenski's  appointment in any way a political appointment or is this yet another case of" the anti-feminism of the Opposition and the Press? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: In view of the current interest, both in top level salaries and in the cost of health insurance programs, can the Minister confirm that the Director of the Hospital Contribution Fund of Australia in New South Wales,  Mr Turner,  and the General Manager of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd in New South Wales,  Mr Cade,  have recently had salary increases raising their annual earnings from $3 1 ,500 to $50,000? Can the Minister present the Senate with a run down of the salaries and allowances of executives of all or any of the major private health insurance funds? 
I feel constrained to rise to speak tonight to the motion that the Senate do now adjourn. I think that this is the third time in 12 months that I have taken this opportunity of airing my grievances. My grievance tonight is in regard to the responsibility or perhaps irresponsibility of the Press, which graces the Press Gallery here on odd occasions. I want to stress that in my opinion the Press has a great community responsibility. It is unfortunate that the Press barons do not see that they have that responsibility and that they are not prepared to accept it. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to a report in the  Sunday Mirror  on 7 September. It appeared in a quite prominent position, of course, as do most of the rather sensational items that appear in the  Sunday Mirror,  that is, on page 3 next to a photograph of a nude woman. The article is entitled 'Jail for drinking with her husband'. It is a report about a woman who was prepared to go to gaol rather than pay a fine. The article relates to the case of  Mrs Janina  Anstee, whom the article said had pleaded guilty in the Liverpool court that week to a charge of refusing to leave licensed premises. The story, incidentally, is incorrect in that she did not plead guilty that week but pleaded guilty the week before. Of course the story was not written until it was sensational. It was written after she had actually served a 6-day sentence on principle rather than pay $30 fine because she did not believe that she was guilty.  Mrs Anstee  's only crime was that she went to a hotel- I understand that it is called the Stop and Rest'- in Mount Pritchard in New South Wales. Unfortunately the 'Stop and Rest' did not live up to its name as far as  Mrs Anstee  was concerned. 
She went into the hotel to join a group of her husband's friends and, inadvertently or otherwise, found her way into what is quaintly called a saloon bar'. She was allowed to buy her first drink in the saloon bar and, as she was served by a female bar attendant, she was told that she could have that drink but any further drinks would need to be purchased in the lounge; that she was in a men's domain and her presence was not required. The people with whom she was drinking did not see that she had any reason to be transferred to another section of the hotel where she would have been forced to sit alone and, furthermore, forced to pay more for her drinks. Subsequently they bought her drinks. 
The management were the ones which complained about her presence there. I do not know whether the objection to her presence was taken because she wore her hair in a particular way or because she was wearing an outfit that the management did not particularly like, but the 
Liquor Act is fairly wide and it does give very broad powers in the enlightened State of New South Wales to licensees. For instance, section 1 56 of the Act states: 
Any licensee under this Act may refuse to admit into, and may turn out of his licensed premises, any person who is then drunk, violent, quarrelsome, disorderly, or who is using disgusting, profane, or foul language, or any person whose presence on his premises would subject him to a penalty under this Act. 
As far as I can ascertain the only crime that  Mrs Anstee  had committed was that she was a female and that she was drinking in a male domain. 
I have not asked the publican. When I rang he was not available. But I have spoken to the person concerned and I have spoken to a number of the people who were with her in the hotel. I have also spoken to a reputable member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly, who has already referred to this matter in that other place. Nevertheless, let us look at what the Act in actual fact does allow. The Act, of course, was drawn up in 1912 and there have been only minor amendments to it subsequently. It does go on further to refer to any person who hawks, peddles, sells or offers for sale any goods and so on.  Mrs Anstee  was not doing any of those things. But the Act was amended to provide, in effect, that where a licensee has turned a person out or caused a person to be turned out of his premises or refused to admit to his premises a particular person he may subsequently at any time and from time to time continue to refuse to admit that person or ask that person to leave. 
I fail to understand just what the publican's complaint could have been. But ultimately she did become disorderly, and I believe she was within her rights to do so. If I had been there I would probably have been a little more disorderly than she was because all she said was that the only way they would remove her from the bar was to carry her out. Section 1 56 of the Act goes on to state: 
And all constables arc hereby required, and enjoined, on the demand of such licensee, agent or servant, to expel or assist in expelling every such person from such premises and may use any reasonable degree of force required for that purpose. 
Just imagine the scene. The publican rings the local police station and 3 big burly policemen arrive on the scene to escort one fragile little woman from licensed premises. I put it to the Senate that the law of New South Wales is a most repressive and oppressive one. It is solely at the whim of the licensee, it would appear, as to who can drink in his premises and where in those premises a person can drink. A person may wear a particular shirt and the licensee may not approve of the colour. It may be a full moon, and perhaps it was a full moon, though I think that came a week later. We cannot blame the moon for the actions of the licensee at that particular time. But any of those are reasons, sufficient reasons, for him to ask a person to leave. 
Let us have a look at what happened to  Mrs Anstee  when she decided that she would go ahead with the case and appeared before a magistrate. The magistrate determined that she would pay a fine of $30 or go to gaol for 6 days. Section 156 of the New South Wales Liquor Act- and admittedly this is an amendmentstates that the penalty will be $40, not $30. I question the right of any magistrate to reduce the fine to $30 for any reason if it is by law the amount that is to be paid when a section of an Act of Parliament is breached.  Mrs Anstee  decided that on principle she would go to gaol rather than pay the fine. 
Let us have a look at the irresponsibility of the Press in this matter. Nary a word did I see about  Mrs Anstee.  I saw nothing about the fact that her case was being heard. I saw nothing about her decision to go to gaol on principle rather than pay a $30 fine for failing to leave licensed premises, and that was her only charge. It was the first offence that she had committed, and that is perhaps the reason the fine was reduced to $30. 1 do not know the reason for the reduction. There is no determination in the newspapers because they did not see that they had a responsibility to tell the public what happens in these cases, as they did not see that they had a responsibility to draw the attention of the public to this case. Perhaps they were concerned that women in New South Wales might be enlightened enough to take some action against the publican. They might have thought that the following Saturday afternoon women would go to the saloon bar of the Stop and Rest Hotel; decide to stay there; refuse to leave and not go into the lounge where they would be required to pay more; and have a sit down strike especially as the female bar attendant who would serve them had had the audacity under instructions, presumably from the licensee, to request that another member of her sex leave the house or that part of the house. 
Let us see what happened when  Mrs Anstee  decided that she would go to gaol. She asked to make a phone call in the office of the police station where she was being booked. She wanted to contact her husband and let him know what the outcome of the case was. She wanted to phone her employer to tell him that she would be unable to report for work but she was denied even that right. Let us consider what happened to her in Silverwater. On the Thursday, 4 days after she was admitted and 4 days into her sentence, a letter written by her father was taken to her in the gaol by her husband. The letter probably related to an overseas trip that the father and daughter intend taking and it was written in Polish. That was audacious enough, but then a security officer or a superintendent or whatever they call those people at Silverwater said that the letter had to go through the normal channels. That was on Thursday of last week and that was the last she saw of the letter. The authorities have not been able to locate it. Perhaps they are having difficulty in having it translated, although why it should have to be translated when she was there for a 6-day period and it could quite easily have been handed to her on her release I do, not know. But that is what happened to her. 
I make a further point in relation to the irresponsibility of the Press, and I refer the Senate to page 4 of today's  Sun.  This article reveals the great minds of the people who write the words of wisdom that are read each day in so many houses throughout Australia. The article appears on page 4, immediately under the editorial, because everyone reads the editorial, which in popularity follows closely after the comic strips. The comic strips are more popular, but the editorial comes in between the comics and the sporting pages. The article is headed: 'How Your MP Beats The Tax Man ', and it is written by a  Mr Jack  Allsopp who I presume at some stage graces our Press gallery in this chamber. If he does not, how the hell does he come in contact with this information? If he does come in contact with it, why does he not write it as it is and not as he thinks it is? 
In the article Federal politicians are referred to as being among the world 's most pampered politicians. Let me tell the Senate that I do not consider myself to be a pampered politician. I find it extremely difficult to travel 5000 miles a week just to get to my place of employment, and that is something members of the Press do not have to do. I do not consider that my accommodation in Parliament House could in any circumstances lead me to be called pampered. I do not consider that being without a research officer or secretarial staff in Parliament House makes me a pampered politician, nor do I believe that the fact that I have a rent-free furnished electorate office and full secretarial assistance makes me a pampered politician. 
I work a 15-hour day on most days that I am here. But there is a rather delightful comment here that I must admit did tickle my fancy. It states that we have meals at reduced prices at Parliament House. I am sure that the very man who wrote this article has taken advantage at some time of the meals at reduced prices available to him in the nonmember's dining room at Parliament House. Yet he has the audacity to say that I pay $1.50 in the dining room for a piece of steak. And he calls that a reduced price meal. He then went on to say that I have free tennis courts. I should love to know when I could get out to use them, and I should love to know when I could go down to use the sauna. But these are free; these are some of the perks of the Federal politicians- the MPs' perks in Canberra. 
The article states that we are entitled to payment for use of private cars to and from Canberra. What does the writer of the article think we are going to travel on? A camel? Does not the Public Service and private industry pay a mileage rate to its employees who travel to and from work in their own vehicles? Of course they do. I get a travelling allowance of $37 a day when I am away from my home base, states the article. I get a travelling allowance of $37 a day when I am in Canberra and not when I am away from home base, not when I have to go to Port Hedland or Broome or Derby or Albany or anywhere else. I get my $37 a day when I am on the job here in Canberra; and I use it. I have to justify the spending of that $37 to my tax man. He wants to know how I have spent it and whether I have spent all of it, and if I have not he is likely to charge me a little bit more. 
The hour is late and I appreciate that honourable senators are tired. Some of us have been here since 8.30 this morning, which is more than most members of the Press gallery could say. Most of us will be here again at 8.30 tomorrow morning, working through until at least 10.30 tomorrow night. Perhaps  Mr Allsopp  might like to spend a typical day in Canberra with me and I will teach him how to write a Press article which shows a sense of responsibility, not only towards Parliament but also towards the rest of the community throughout Australia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Media: How many women employed in the Australian Information Service now represent Australia overseas? Is a statement of the previous Minister for the Media that more women will be posted to Australian Information Service posts overseas as soon as they have completed language training in accordance with the policy of the present Minister for the Media? If so, what language courses are being undertaken and when are they expected to be completed? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I ask it in the light of reports that it is the intention of the Department of Defence to acquire land at Bindoon in Western Australia. Will the Minister say whether it is in fact the intention of the Department of Defence to acquire that land? How much land is involved? 
What is it to be used for, and will the public have an opportunity to comment on or object to the proposals? 
Is the Minister for Police and Customs aware of a Press report in the  Sunday Times  of 3 1 August that an imported children's book containing misleading information that a known highly dangerous toadstool is harmless has gone on sale in Australia? What action has the Minister taken in respect of this matter? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the practice of certain doctors who include on their accounts printed messages with pearls of wisdom such as 'Who is Gough Whitlam?' and 'I do not belong to the AMA or the Government'? Will he look into this matter to see whether such insulting and condescending comments can be stopped? 
-Has the Minister for Police and Customs seen Press reports indicating that some State governments intend to ban the manufacture and sale of children's nightwear made from fabrics of high fire hazard? Does the Minister intend to introduce controls to prohibit the importation of children's nightwear made from such fabrics? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. I remind the Minister of his announcement in a ministerial statement on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands that he intended to establish an interim advisory council, including Home Islanders, to advise the Administrator. I ask: Has the council been appointed? If so, when is it to meet and how is its establishment being received by the Cocos Malay community? 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Has the construction of the temporary Radio Australia station at Carnarvon been started? If so, what is the likely transmission commencement date? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. In asking it I refer to Press allegations about delays in the payment of Medibank claims. I ask the Minister whether he will provide the Senate with answers to the following questions: How many claims of all types has Medibank received since 1 July 1 975? What is the current average daily intake of claims? 

 - Senator Baume, would you care to ask my question for me? How many cheque and assignment claims were on hand as at Friday, 17 October 1975? What is the average time lag for payment of claims, other than cash paid claims? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. I am sure that the Minister is aware, as most Australians are aware, that the evidence of European contact with the Australian mainland indicates that it first occurred along the Western Australian coast. A number of Dutch East India Company vessels was wrecked there. I understand that the first recorded wreck occurred in 1629. 1 am sure that the Minister is also aware that many relics are now being recovered from these sites. As a study of the recovered relics can provide a valuable insight into the social and economic life at the time the vessels were wrecked, can the Minister inform the Senate whether any progress is being made in the building up of a national collection of these relics and whether there are any plans for the displaying of this collection, particularly in Western Australia? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDSenator Coleman has shown continuing interest in matters of this nature. As she knows, a committee known as the Australian-Netherlands Committee on Old Dutch Shipwrecks has been established by the Australian Government and the Netherlands Government to advise on the disposition of the relics that have been recovered. The Committee has the responsibility of determining collections that are obtained of material removed from the Dutch East India Company wrecks for both the Netherlands and Australia. The bulk of the collections at present remains at the Western Australian museum. At the last meeting of the Committee representative collections from material recovered from the wreck of the  Batavia  were determined by the Western Australian Museum. The Australian collection is now quite varied and diverse ranging from earthenware jars to metal objects. Replicas such as navigation instruments are also being prepared for inclusion in the collection. 
I am rather pleased that  Senator Guilfoyle  in the final stages of her speech decided to speak about the free Press which operates in Australia. I shall tell honourable senators a little about the free Press which operates in Australia. This information is taken from an article written by journalists about journalists. There is a reference to the newspaper about which I know most- the  West Australian,  that supposedly unbiased disseminator of news throughout Western Australia. This is what a journalist has to say about the editor of the  West Australian: 
The  West Australian  has been called the most biased daily newspaper in Australia. Its support for the Liberal Party extends beyond editorials into the selection of stories and even advertisements. The man who controls 'the West' is small, dapper Fred Morony. 
What is  Mr Morony  's background? He was a journalist. He came up through the ranks. He is supposed to have a rapport with the people who work beneath him. In this article he is referred to as one of the most powerful men in the Western Australian media. The article continues: 
These men (no women on the bridge at W.A. Newspapers) direct the gathering and presentation of the news that most Australians will read, see and hear about the West. 
For W.A. Newspapers is also in the business of selling news elsewhere, which it does to friendly and rival newspaper chains in the East- 
And why should it not? It is owned by the Herald and Weekly Times, so why should not it disseminate its news through those channels? The article continues: 
Which means that if these men decide that an event will be ignored or a viewpoint rejected then the chances are high that you will remain forever ignorant. 
That is the free Press about which  Senator Guilfoyle  spoke earlier. That is the free Press that has never yet seen fit to publish an advertisement offered by the trade union movement without the threat of industrial action being taken by the trade union movement in Western Australia. There was the event which occurred only quite recently when the trade unions wanted to mention the name of a person who was not a member of the Labor Party in a political advertisement to be inserted by the trade union movement. The advertisement was in danger of not being published on the advice of  Mr Fred  Morony because he did not think that the trade union movement or the working people in the West should be allowed to express their points of view in paid advertisements- although he felt that advertisers could do what they liked as far as the consumers of news in that State through the  West Australian  are concerned. 
I understand that last night in the program  This Day Tonight  on the Australian Broadcasting Commission- that favourite of the members of the Opposition- there was a quite interesting segment on the bias of the Western Australian newspapers. It might be interesting to get a biased report about the biased reporters. It certainly would not do any harm. Let us look at what is said in the  New Press,  lt says: 
Journalists are popularly supposed to be relentless seekers of the truth, iconoclasts all, firing penetrating questions at society's most powerful figures. 
The Truth is far distant. 
I remind honourable senators opposite that this article was written by a journalist about journalists. It continues: 
The questioning stops outside. The staff at W.A. Newspapers, like the staff in any big organisation, worry about maintaining the mortgage repayments as much as anyone else. 
If there's to be a revolution in the W.A. media palace it won 't start among the guards. 
The hierarchy of W.A. Newspapers is top heavy. The managing director, Keith Duncan Macpherson, an accountant, presides over the whole company, but taking his orders from the board of the Herald and Weekly Times in Melbourne where he was formerly general manager. 
I am just disseminating some of the news that is disseminated about newspapers in Western Australia. Further on the article states: 
The West today is certainly a better paper . . . but that statement has nothing to do with the quality of the writing or the objectivity of the reporting. 
So much for  Senator Guilfoyle  's free Press! Further on in the article it states: 
Morony knows how to steer clear of trouble The hatred of his company- so deeply felt by the intelligentsia and the young- pass him by. The West supports the party with the best policy. That's it. That's always it. The West has never supported the ALP. But then the ALP has never come up with the right policy. 
When Morony made one of his rare excursions into the outside world and met the Country Women's Association he was astounded at their anger. They wanted the Women's pages abandoned because they claimed these segregated women from the rest of society. 
What was  Mr Morony  's answer to the people from the Country Women's Association? He removed the heading 'For Women' from across the top of the pages in the newspaper. He left everything else alone. He even includes the listing 'Women' in the index. The article concludes by saying: 
A man who knows those who know what's good for W.A. 
Surely the only thing which can defeat this man is a board, change in Melbourne, poor health from the pressures of the job, or a drop in sales. 
Yet the consumers of news in Western Australia are left without any alternative. We find that the only 2 daily newspapers are controlled by the one organisation. We do not have freedom of the Press in Western Australia. We do not have the freedom to say what we want to say and know that it will be reported. If one wants a typical example of that one has only to look at the front page of Monday's  Daily News  where it was claimed that 200 people attended a rally in Kwinana. The  West Australian  the next morning was a little more optimistic; it said that 500 people attended the rally. The ABC was just about right; it said that more than 1000 people attended the rally. That was only one misprint on the front page of" the  Daily News.  The other one was attributed personally to me. That story was also incorrect. When listening to  Senator Guilfoyle  a little while ago I was reminded of 

 Mrs Margaret Thatcher in the British Parliament who said quite recently that a terrible thing is happening in Britain. That terrible thing is that the rich are getting poorer and the poor are getting richer. That is a terrible thing to be happening in such a great nation as Britain. It is a terrible thing to be happening in a great nation like Australia, but that is what has been happening to the people in Australia under this Australian Government. They are getting a more equitable share of the wealth of our great country. 
I think that it is rather tremendous of the Opposition to have designated this time on this day for this debate to commence, because we must remember that honourable senators opposite had an opportunity last night to commence this debate. They were the ones who deferred it until today when the proceedings are being broadcast to the nation at large. Whilst I, having worked in radio, advertising and the publicity field, would be one of the first to admit that the audience listening to the broadcast of parliamentary debates is not generally very large, I assure honourable senators that at this point of time more people are listening to the broadcast of the parliamentary debates than have ever listened to it in the past or are likely to listen to it in the future, because it is the people's future that hinges on what happens in this chamber today, tomorrow and next week. It is the future of the people of Australia. 
We have had the experience of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the other House telling the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that he should go to the people. He did go to the people to find out what they were thinking on this issue. He went to the people in Melbourne last Monday, and his representatives went to the people in South Australia and in Western Australia last Monday and will do so again later this week. 
And in Tasmania. I had not neglected Tasmania. I intended in a moment to refer to Tasmania where there was the largest crowd that has ever attended a rally of that sort in Tasmania. We have only to look at what happened outside this Parliament House on Thursday of last week when there was a demonstration by the Australian people who are concerned that the lifeblood of this country is in danger of being denied to the Government. We have to acknowledge the demonstration that took place outside this Parliament House yesterday. It was a demonstration organised by the Liberal Party and its supporters who came along with their placards which stated: 'Gough is going, great! ' 
They were drowned out by the number of supporters of democracy who came along and said:  Fraser should not be doing what he is doing'. Of course, on the advice of his market researchers he has gone too far; he cannot find the face to back down. These are the market researchers who only last week said that about 3.5 per cent of the population would express some form of concern if he denied Supply in the Senate. They said that only a very small percentage of the population was in any way concerned about the matter. These are the same market researchers, one presumes, who gave the Opposition advice in April of last year that the threat to refuse Supply would not upset anyone a great deal and that it had every chance of winning in any subsequent action taken by the Government. The market researchers were proved wrong yesterday, as they were 1 8 months ago and would be again in the event that  Mr Whitlam  decided to have an election- and it is going to be  Mr Whitlam  's decision, not the decision of the members of this Opposition who see themselves in the role of the God-given right to rule. 
This is what this is all about. It is not about political convention or constitutional democracy. That has nothing to do with it. This debate is taking place at the moment purely and simply because the people on the Opposition benches cannot bear to sit there. They have been there since December 1972 and they do not like it. They would like to see the Australian Labor Party back on the Opposition benches and they will pull out all stops to make sure that that happens. 
We heard  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle saying that we were inciting revolution and that we held a disregard for the rule of law. We are not inciting revolution; we are looking for democracy in this country because we are one of the few democratic nations left in a world that is torn with strife at the moment. We are one of the few democratic nations that in actual fact can hold its head up- or could until last week- and say: 'We are a democracy and we believe that every person in this country has the right to vote on issues'. But how often are they expected to vote? We have had 2 very expensive elections since the beginning of December 1972 and now this irresponsible Opposition wants to see us go back and have another one. I doubt that we have even been able to pay for the last election, but already the Opposition is saying to the taxpayers of Australia: 'Let's have another election. Let's give you the opportunity to vote. We have plenty of money in the kitty to finance an advertising campaign. We have plenty of money to put out our "how to vote" pamphlets and all our literature that is necessary with an election'. 
I am sorry that I was not able to hear  Mr Daly's  remarks, senator. Thank you for drawing my attention to them. We have heard the phrase used many times that this democratic constitutional activity that we are involved in at the moment is a political innovation. I do not think it is. I do not see it that way. I see it as rape, pure and simple- rape of democracy, rape of the people of Australia- and the Opposition's attitude is that of the rapist who argues that any damage that is done is caused by the resistance of the victim. I presume that the Opposition would argue that non-resistance is consent, but this Government intends to resist and the people of Australia will not consent to rape. 
It is not the Government that is at stake at the moment; it is not the Prime Minister; it is not individual members of Parliament. It is the people of Australia. This confrontation is no longer just a political confrontation between Labor and Liberal-National Country parties. The Senate cannot any longer claim that it is a States house of review because not one member of the Opposition has taken into consideration the feelings of any of his electors inside his State. We are not debating whether the States have rights in this House or anything else. We are debating whether, in actual fact, the Government will permit the Opposition to continue on this course of suicide as far as Australia is concerned. 
We heard the comments of members of the Opposition about constitutional convention at the time of Premier Lewis's actions in New South Wales on the appointment of  Senator Bunton.  They said that the appointment was not very nice of Premier Lewis; that it was an established convention that when a senator retired or died he should be replaced by a member of the same Party. We heard them express their views about convention at the time that Premier Joh Bjelke-Petersen- the workers' friend in Queensland- appointed a non-Labor Party person to fill the vacancy caused by the death of  Senator Bertie  Milliner. We heard them say that that was not in accordance with established convention and that the Premier should do the right thing and recognise that there are traditions; that he should appoint a Labor Party person to fill the place. Yet they took advantage of the place not being filled by a Labor Party person to win the vote in this House last week and to continue in this manner today. 
It is the intention of these members of the Opposition here to extort as much as they can from the communities throughout Australia by denying them the right to have funds available to continue. They will be denying them the money that should be made available for pensions. They will be denying them the money that should be available for hospitals. They will be denying them the money that should be available for those dependent on social security. They will be denying them the right to live in decency and in dignity. 
Even in Western Australia, where we have our own natural disaster in  Sir Charles  Court as Premier, it has never been envisaged that an upper House had the power to refuse Supply. In the days of the Hawke Labor Government, when the Opposition had a working majority in the Upper House, the Legislative Councilgerrimandered incidentally, to ensure that they always had a majority in the upper House- no government was ever upset by the refusal of Supply. In actual fact, in the time of the Hawke Labor Government, both  Mr Lynch  and  Mr Diver,  members of the Country Party, stated their attitude that the platform on which the Hawke Government was elected was such that the Government should be allowed to have Supply. The members of the Opposition here are not simply withholding Supply; they say they are deferring it until such time as the Prime Minister agrees to go to the polls. 
I remind members of the Opposition that they have a responsibility to each and every person, irrespective of whether they voted for them or not- after today's proceedings I should imagine that half of them will not. Even those who did vote for members of the Opposition are disillusioned by their actions now. I simply remind members of the Opposition that they are all- I hope they are anyway- getting the same amount of correspondence from the ordinary people of Australia as I am, and I am getting it by the bucketful; I hope they are too. I hope that they think about it very carefully and that they will change their minds on the course they have decided to take. The communications I am getting openly state that the people concerned do not necessarily support the Labor Party at electionsthat they may not have voted for the Labor Party at the last election- but that they will not stand idly by and watch the Opposition in its attempts to gain control of the Government benches when we have a freely elected Government, twice freely elected government, already on those Government benches. I leave honourable senators with this one thought: As the Opposition you have a responsibility to those people of Australia to be constructive, not destructive. 
-Has the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation seen a letter to the editor in the  West Austraiian  of 22 October from an executive director of a large retailing company about his unsatisfactory experiences with insurance companies? Can the Minister say whether the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation would, as  Mr Rosenthal  puts it, 'offer some active competition to existing insurance companies'? 
I am rather grateful to  Senator Durack  for introducing his opposition to the Bill in that manner. I am reminded of the debate that must have taken place in the New Zealand Parliament some 1 8 months ago or so when the Government of that country indicated its intention to set up a New Zealand export-import corporation. I am basing that assumption on an article which appeared in the business and economics column of the  Canberra Times  on Wednesday, 13 August, this year. I would like to quote a little from that article so that honourable senators can assess the current situation for themselves. The reporter is Anthony Haas and this is what he had to say: 
Criticism from the National Party Opposition and sections of the private commercial sector expressed during debates on the Ex-Im founding legislation last year left an impression that those for whom the service was intended did not want it. Fears of socialism, of monopoly, unfair government advantage, interference in the private sector and duplication of existing services were expressed in the criticisms. 
There was another article in the New Zealand  Herald Financial Review  by staff correspondent Wallis which, under the heading 'New trading corporation signing up major firms', said-. 
Controversy and dire forebodings attended the birth, little more than a year ago, of the New Zealand Export-Import Corporation. 
Some manufacturers, and the Opposition, were quick to spot the big brother of socialism in Government moves to set up a corporation which could compete in trade on an equal footing with private enterprise. 
This is indicative of the statements made by  Senator Durack  this morning and in the debate on Tuesday afternoon when he announced the intention of the Opposition to oppose this Bill. The Opposition sees the big hand of socialism coming down on the small traders who see any advantage at all in continuing the way they have been. There is a more recent statement on the home front to which  Senator Durack  also referred and I point out to honourable senators that there is a distinct similarity between what I have just read and what I will now quote from a statement from the Australian Chamber of Commerce dated 1 9 August this year. In part it says: 
In conclusion, we repeat that this legislation is not only unnecessary but could be positively damaging, not only to the direct trading interest of Australian exporters, but could undermine the confidence of the overseas importer who has worked in partnership with the Australian exporter in establishing and developing markets for Australian products. Indeed it presents a positive threat of nationalisation in the field of Australia's international trade. 
Honourable senators can see that there are not only similarities but also repetitions in the statements I have just quoted made by the Australian Chamber of Commerce and in the New Zealand Parliament not long ago. The same trite phrases that were being used then are being used now and by similar people. I do not want to forget to mention the repeat of the entire letter from the Australian Chamber of Commerce in a rather interesting little publication called  Objective  which was published on 18 August 1975, one day before the letter from the Chamber of Commerce. When honourable senators look at who is responsible for the publication, which lays claim to being an independent weekly newsletter, they will find it interesting that the Canberra editor is  Mr Jonathan  Gaul who, 1 understand, at one time was with the  Canberra Times,  was  President  of the Press Gallery here and was speechwriter for  Mr William  McMahon. He was appointed to  Mr Snedden  's staff in June 1974. Perhaps that is one of the reasons for the Opposition deciding to oppose this legislation. It felt that the circulation of the  Objective  is so great that it has won people around to believing that this is an attitude adopted by the LiberalNational Country Parties prior to the Bill being introduced in the House. 
What is the situation now in New Zealand? Here I must return to the two articles I have already quoted from. The  Canberra Times  said: 
Several hundred manufacturers who could expand their exports have sought assistance from the fledgling New Zealand Export-Import Corporation. 
There are the people  Senator Durack  said would be harmed by the establishment of the Overseas Trading Corporation. The article goes on: 
Manufacturers inquiries through the Manufacturers' Federation and the Ex-Im Corporation evidence a widespread fell need for the Government-created Corporation. Clear early vindication of the Government's initiative in setting up the sort of state trading corporation, favoured by an increasing number of countries, comes firstly from a significant Manufacturers' Federation export survey. 
These are the people whom  Senator Durack  says are not being considered in this legislation. The article continues: 
Of 228 exporters surveyed 56 per cent sought assistance from the New Zealand Export-Import Corporation. 
They are not necessarily all small business people. Probably some were quite large trading organisations. So of 228 exporters surveyed 56 per cent sought assistance from the Ex-Im Corporation. The article continues: 
The concerns expressed by the companies New Zealand relies on to expand manufactured exports show why the Ex-Im is a necessary addition to the New Zealand trading scene. Existing exporters want help- 40 per cent in the survey already export to 3 or more markets and 2 1 per cent of the exporters intend to diversify into additional export markets. 
From what the New Zealand  Herald Financial Review  says, not only big companies have shown interest because the corporation has on its books also a range of clients which runs right down to the man working alone in his garage who thinks he has come up with something that could make him money on the overseas market. To gauge interest the Corporation sent out a questionnaire to 300 manufacturers. It got 130 replies from companies wanting the Corporation's help to develop overseas markets. I would like to remind honourable senators at this point - 
For goodness sake,  Senator Durack,  do not talk rubbish. For goodness sake, read the Bill before you get up and oppose it in its entirety.  Mr President,  it is obvious from what  Senator Durack  said on Tuesday and again this morning that he has not paid the Government the courtesy of reading the Bill, nor has he bothered to see what is happening in other countries. We are talking about trade, as was the Chamber of Commerce. What trade? If we take agricultural commodities and primary products out, what is left? We have been dealing in dolls' eyes and toothpicks for so long that we cannot see that there is anything else in the export market. I think that the Chamber of Commerce is on the wrong tram. It is so busy seeing socialism and nationalisation that it has not been able to see or to assess the true situation, nor has it wanted to. 
I would know a great deal more than some of the members of the Chamber of Commerce, I assure you. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Police and Customs. I read recently that a meeting of the Australian and State Ministers for Police had agreed to develop services for common use by police forces. Is there any connection between this report and previous reports of plans to set up a police computer network throughout Australia? 
I ask the Special Minister of State: Is it true, as has been reported recently in the Press, that the Prices Justification Tribunal will ensure that any increased revenue obtained by producers of aviation fuel as a result of proposed increases in price to international carriers will be reflected in lower prices for domestic petroleum products? 
As the Minister for Police and Customs is aware, there are numerous items of apparel which are subject to some form of import control, whether by licence or by tariff quota. Many goods of a fashion or seasonal nature require substantial lead times between the date of ordering and the date of distribution on the Australian market. Can the Minister please advise whether any steps are being taken to advise importers of their quota allocations as early as possible before the commencement of second and subsequent quota periods? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to an article in the  Daily Telegraph  of 3 1 October in which the General Manager of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Ltd is reported to have accused the Government of making an arbitrary decision in rejecting supplementary hospital insurance tables proposed by the Fund? Will the Minister comment on this reported accusation? 
-Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware of the problems which have been caused, particularly in country areas, by the announcement of the termination of the living away from home allowance for apprentices under the National Apprenticeship Assistance Scheme? In many cases these allowances have meant the difference between trade training or unemployment for young people from the country. Can the Minister advise the Senate of any steps that his Department is taking to assist young people from rural areas who wish to take up apprenticeships? 

 -Mr President, I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the Senate requests the Government to undertake an immediate investigation into food prices, including: 
Wholesalers 'markups. 
The correlation of production costs to retail prices: and 
The disparity between prices paid to primary producers and the end cost to consumers. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General to advise whether any action has been taken by the Trade Practices Commission under section 50 of the Trade Practices Act of 1 974 relating to mergers. If so, will the Minister detail the outcome of such action or actions? How many complaints have been received and what is the nature of the complaints received by the Trade Practices Commission in Western Australia? Is a legal officer attached to the Commission in Western Australia or does the Commission act on advice from the Crown Law Department in that State? Have any prosecutions taken place under the Trade Practices Act in Western Australia? Is it true that the Crown Law Department is advising the Commission not to prosecute unless it can be assured of winning a case? Are we to assume that by virtue of what we could call this 'enforced inactivity' of the Commission manufacturers, retailers, wholesalers and companies in Western Australia are immune to the law either because of the inadequacies of the Crown Law Department or perhaps because of political instruction from the State Government? 
I think perhaps one of the most important occasions in this Senate chamber is an adjournment debate which gives us the opportunity of airing our grievances. Tonight I am conscious that some honourable senators in this chamber and some members in the other place are probably not aware of a situation which developed in relation to facilities available for the staff attached to the dining rooms and kitchens in Parliament House. An occasion arose last Wednesday when, after a particularly hot and humid day just prior to the evening meal when a large number of members, their guests and relatives were due to arrive for dinner, there was the threat of a strike by the staff. The problem appears to be that because it is necessary for the staff to wait on table for the members and their guests they find it necessary to eat at odd hours of the day. 
For instance, their evening meal starts, I think, about, 4.30 in the afternoon when it has been the practice for them to be served what is left over from members' meals at lunch time. Similarly at lunch they receive what is left from the servings that were not required by members or guests the night before. This is generally warmed up or reheated and sometimes even manages to reach the table in a fairly edible condition, but not always. 
I shall ignore the interjection and perhaps even the honourable senator may understand at the end of my speech tonight why nothing was done. The conditions under which the staff are expected to eat those meals are less than humane in that the room which they occupy, which is required to house approximately 60 people, is designed in fact to accommodate 25 or 30 at the most. There is no air conditioning and because it is in the lower portion of Parliament House it is extremely hot and humid. The kitchen conditions themselves are unacceptable. On Wednesday night at about 9.30 I availed myself of the opportunity to see the conditions under which the staff are required to work. Taking into consideration that at that time the heat of the day had already passed, the ovens were not on, the stoves were not being used and the staff were at a minimum the conditions were still intolerable. The only electrical appliance that I could see in operation was an electric toaster, but the conditions were stifling. 1 understand that in April 1974- this will answer the interjection from the Government side- a log of claims was served on the employers and the double dissolution of April was the sole reason for no signatures being applied to the log of claims. I am given to understand that with amendments by the trade unions and the employers the log of claims has been re-presented and once again it was the premature proroguing of this Parliament in November of last year that prevented signatures from being applied to the claims that were felt to be justified. 

 Mr President, I am conscious that you are aware of the situation. I have been advised that you have received a report of some sort. I simply ask that for the smooth running of Parliament House, as members have experienced it in the past, both you and  Mr Speaker  get together and look at the log of claims that has been presented and make a decision at the earliest possible opportunity to circumvent action which could have taken place last week and may still take place this week or next. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. The Minister would be aware that the Family Planning Association in Western Australia has been funded by both State and Federal government grants. With this funding it has been able to set up headquarters in Perth, providing a necessary service to the community. To continue to provide this essential service it is necessary for it and other such associations to know just what the situation is with regard to continuing and future funding. Will the Minister advise whether it is the intention of this Government to continue funding the Family Planning Associations in each State and, if so, to what extent? 
During this debate on the AddressinReply Opposition senators have been constantly reminded by senators on the Government benches of the grudge that we bear against the Governor-General and of the role that he played in the activities prior to and on Remembrance Day 1975. 1 have no shame and I feel no shame in admitting that I bear a grudge. I was cheated out of a job that I was elected to do for a period of 3 years by the electors in Western Australia. I served only half of that period. My term of office was cut short because of the whims of the minority. Not only were my colleagues and I cheated, but the people who elected us and reelected us in May 1974 feel a sense of being cheated in that they also believed that we were being elected for a period of 3 years. 
I did not feel any joy in the activities that took place in this chamber last Tuesday. I felt that it was rather a sad place and I was glad that I was not part of it. I felt sad on behalf not only of myself but also of the people throughout Australia who believed that they lived in a democracy. Democracy died on November 1 1 last year. Australia is not a democracy. We have to stop believing that it is a democracy. We are fooling ourselves and we are endeavouring to fool the people of Australia. Remembrance Day of 1976 and from then on will be the day when people of Australia - 
I beg the honourable senator's pardon. If he would allow me to finish my sentence perhaps what I am about to say will become clear even to him. Rememberance Day of 1976 and of every year thereafter will be the day on which free-thinking Australians will bow their heads for the customary 2 minutes silence, not for those who died in the great wars but for the death of democracy in this country. 
I believe it is now time that we Australians should start working towards becoming a republic. It is the only way that we can restore and maintain a democracy in this country. We live in a capitalist society and no social reform government can operate in a capitalist society. Most of the events that happened leading up to and including 11 November 1975 are known. They are on record. It is not a very nice record. The fact that a celebration was planned for Tuesday, 1 1 November, in this Parliament House and that a booking was made on 7 November by the then Opposition does not contribute to what in actual fact took place on that day. We heard the gospel according to the minority and honourable senators opposite were in a minority in the House that matters, the democratically elected House of Representatives, at the time of the coup on 11 November. We all are aware of the role that particular people inside this Parliament played at that point of time. We all are aware of the role that the Press played at that point of time, leading up to 11 November and between 11 November and 13 December. 
If  Senator Baume  can read the newspapers, he does not need me to tell him what is happening. But perhaps he needs eye treatment. I suggest that he should see an optician. We all are aware of the part that the Press is playing at the present time. We all are aware that the Press is playing down the stories which if they had happened while a Labor Government was in office, would have been headline news throughout Australia. We are aware of the cuts in Government expenditure, reports of which are being held back on pages 30, 3 1 and 32 of the national Press. The Press obviously does not want to accept its responsibility. It is the responsibility of the Press to disseminate the news as it happens, not as it thinks it happens; not as the Press thinks it sees the news happen, but as it actually happens. That is not what the Australian people have been getting from the media operations in this country. It is the Australian people who should feel outraged at what they are not being told by the media. It is the Australian people who should revolt at what they are not being told. 

 Senator Missen on Thursday said that he was surprised and disappointed at the speech of my colleague  Senator Mulvihill  on that day. I was not surprised.  Senator Mulvihill  has my complete support. I think that he has the support of all of his colleagues on this side of the chamber when he says: 'The day will come when we will do unto you as you have done unto us'. The only thing about which  Senator Mulvihill  and I disagree is the time. I do not believe that it will take 20 years. I believe that it will take a simple 3 years for the Australian people to realise that they have been conned by this Liberal-National Country Party coalition Government. They will recognise in that 3-year period the injustices that have been done, that are being done and that will be done. These things have been done not to the Labor Party- I am not talking about party politics. I am talking about what is being done to us, the Australian people. I believe that in 3 years the Australian people will see through the facade of this Government.  Senator Missen  also said that he thought it was a good idea for countries to have a change of government. I agree with him. It is a good idea that at the end of each term of office there should be a change of government if the people believe it necessary, but only if the people believe it necessary- not if they are conned into believing it because of the minority Press or because of the extravagant use of the word 'socialism'. 
I would put it to honourable senators that we in Australia lived under a socialist government for 23 years prior to 12 December 1972 when the Labor Party was brought into office. I believe that we lived under a socialist government that had no cares and no thoughts about the dignity or the lives of the Australian people. It was a case of 'I'm all right Jack and be hanged to the rest of you'. There was a period of nearly a quarter of a century when the wishes, the desires, the hopes and the needs of the Australian people were completely ignored. Already we are seeing some of the results of the meaningless promises that spewed forth during the pre-election campaign in 1975. We are seeing the erosion of the rights and dignity of human beings in this country. For instance, we saw that one of the first actions of this Government was to place a levy on hearing aids for pensioners. How petty and how disgusting that the disadvantaged should be the first to feel the knife. I am aware that the Government changed this situation. One of the good things that it has done is that it has admitted that it made a mistake and has reversed its decision. Nevertheless the damage has been done and the erosion has started. 
I am reminded that we are on a waiting list. We have heard so many quotations from this historic or hysteric document- depending entirely on your political point of view- which was read on Tuesday in this chamber by His Excellency the GovernorGeneral, the man who played such a prominent part in the  coup d'etat  last November. He was commissioned by this Government to stand in this chamber and to say, reading from page 2 of the document: 
The Government does not believe that the poor and disadvantaged can be best helped by increasing the dependence of everyone on what the Government chooses to provide. 
My Government believes that adequate opportunities for the disadvantaged as well as the most rapid improvement in social services provision, are dependent on people being free and encouraged to achieve their best. The disadvantaged must be helped in ways which leave them the maximum independence. 
Perhaps we can assume from that that the Government thought that if people could not afford to pay the $10 levy which was placed on hearing aid appliances then they could not hear and they would remain in ignorance. Are we to assume that the disadvantaged pensioners who were able to take advantage of the pensioner funeral benefits would believe what the Governor-General read in this chamber last week? Were pensioner funeral benefits less important than the superphosphate subsidies? I believe that according to this Government they were. One can only assume that in the eyes of this Government superphosphate comes before all else. Obviously this Government does not believe that people should be allowed to live in dignity, to die in dignity and even to be buried in dignity. 
We turn now to look at the Government's role and at its pre-election promises in relation to the workers of this country. We look at the assertions made before 13 December when the present Government said: 'We will support not only wage indexation- full wage indexation- but also we well keep tax indexation uppermost in our considerations'. Fewer than 2 months after taking over the Treasury bench this same Government appeared before the national wage case hearing in an endeavour to ensure that the Australian workers did not get full wage indexation. The people of Australia are not fools. They can assess for themselves whether in actual fact the pre-election promises that the present Government made are going to be kept. Yet the Government wonders why the Australian Council of Trade Unions does not want to involve itself in further discussions on industrial relations. 
Then we have the issue of the order of dress for the unemployed, which was raised by one of our colleagues here in this chamber. We heard Ministers actually saying that the unemployed should adopt certain standards of dress if they were really serious about looking for employment. I can just imagine- just barely imagine- a person applying for a job as a builder's labourer and turning up in a suit. I know what the employer would say. But, quite frankly and honestly, I can imagine people who are unemployed who do not even own a suit of clothing because I know of such people. I know people who are unemployed who do not own what perhaps could be considered to be a decent style of dress. 
It might be very difficult for honourable senators on the Government benches to appreciate that a person who is unemployed has a number of other considerations before he worries about his or her dress. He worries about such things as making sure that his family is fed and housed. He makes sure that adequate health facilities are available to his children and to his spouse. He makes sure that to the best of his ability he can look himself in the mirror each morning and say: I am doing my best to stand on my feet'. It was said in the Governor-General's Speech last Tuesday that the Government wants people to stand on their own 2 feet. But when the time comes that a man needs the assistance of governments it is to be hoped that none of us here ever find ourselves in need of assistance of governmentsit is to be hoped that not only will he find that assistance but also that he will find the compassion that should go with the assistance. 
A number of issues concerning the Government's policies have not been uncovered. For instance, we have not been told the exact nature of the cut of $9m in respect of the Children's Commission. I understand that  Senator Guilfoyle,  in answering a question concerning this matter this morning, promised that a reply would be made available as soon as possible. These are things that the people who are operating the Children's Commission centres need to know- the people who felt that they could do something for the children of Australia under the Children's Commission Act. Perhaps the people who need assistance most are the children. But already in Victoria we are hearing people expressing some concern that funds may not be available in the coming months. In most instances of course the Government is remaining conspicuously silent. Departments, associations and organisations, be they voluntary or governmental, are being kept in the dark as to their future. 
The women's health refuges do not know whether in the future they will be able to provide facilities for the people who come to them in their hour of need. They know they have funds only until June 1 976. After that time their destiny is in the hands of the Government. The Family Planning Association which operates in Western Australia and which I mentioned at question time this morning, knows that it has funds until only June 1976. What is going to happen now to the people who come to this organisation for advice and for assistance? What will happen to them in the future is an unknown quantity at this point of time. The Family Planning Associations throughout Australia are doing a tremendous job. 
I do not know comprehensively about the other States but I do know that in my own State of Western Australia we do not have a comprehensive sex education program in our high schools. People have to rely on the facilities that are available to them through such organisations as Family Planning Associations. Yet these organisations, with their inadequate facilities, not knowing just how much money they will have to continue during the coming years, are uncertain at this point of time. These are the people who need to know that the Government in actual fact is aware of their drastic situation or of what could develop into a drastic situation in the future. The women's refuges in Western Australia are dealing to a large extent with people who find it necessary, sometimes in the middle of the night and for a variety of reasons, to quit their matrimonial home. They arrive at these refuges with their children in tow and in a distressed and distraught condition. They need not only mental help but also physical help and financial assistance. We on the Opposition benches need to know what is going to happen. 
A lot of the welfare programs that were introduced by the Australian Labor Government had only just got off the ground at the proroguing of the Parliament. It is to be hoped that at least some of them will find favour in the present Government's eyes and that some of the programs will be continued. We have had a number of 'on-again, off-again' policies. Prior to the election we had an 'on-again, off-again' Medibank and still we are not terribly sure what is going to happen to it. We have had an 'on-again, offagain' Prices Justification Tribunal and still we are not sure what is going to happen to it. As yet we need to have defined what are the Government's policies as far as our foreign affairs and our friends and compatriots in countries overseas are concerned. I am hopeful that the Government truly means what it says on page 3 of this document, and because it is a very short paragraph I intend to read it. The Government states: 
In all policy areas the Government will be alert to opportunities to increase the freedom of Australians to choosewithout exploitation- the kinds of goods, services, and styles of life they want, and to minimise direction by Government and the unnecessary redirection of resources through the Government's bureaucracy. 
The Australian people want to live a life of their own choosing. They want to live the life style that they choose. They do not want governments telling them how they must live and how they must think, but they do need to have some direction by government. I hope that this Government will direct its financial resources and its mental resources in the right direction for the Australian people. I want to conclude on a warning note. Whilst the present Government may have criticisms to make of my Party's government when it was in office, let me assure Government senators that we intend to be as vigilant in Opposition as we were at that time. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, I should like to extend my congratulations to  Senator Laucke  on his appointment as  President  of this Chamber. I have had the opportunity of working with him on Estimates Committees and I am aware of the conscientiousness and sense of responsibility that he will carry into this office. My colleague from Western Australia,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  is to be congratulated also. I in my turn would like to welcome the new senators on both the Opposition and the Government benches who will contribute to this session of Parliament. 
-I seek leave to present the report and the transcript of evidence from the former Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade into the prospects of trade between Indonesia and Australia. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting, the Senate was discussing the National Health Bill and the amendments proposed to the National Health Act by the Government. The objections of the Opposition to the amendments proposed by the Bill have already been well covered by my colleague,  Senator Grimes.  I express my own concern that the Government does have a commitment to assist the disadvantaged. As a result of the amendments proposed by this legislation, the disadvantaged will be further disadvantaged. The patient contribution to the cost of a prescription, for instance, is to increase from $ 1 .50 to $2. This will be a burden on those who can least afford it. It is all very well to say that the Australian Labor Government started the process by increasing by 50c the then $1 charge in 1974. There was a great deal of discussion in our Party committee at that time whether we were in actual fact doing the right thing. I believe it has been proved subsequently that we were wrong. 
To me, this does not take away from the fact that there is no value at all to the low income earner to be able to attend a medical practitioner with the knowledge that he can obtain medical treatment free when he leaves that surgery with a pile of prescriptions in his hand in respect of which he must pay $2 each.  Senator Baume  made the point- I think in response to an interjection from  Senator Grimes-  that it is not the patient who over prescribes; it is the doctor. A patient cannot write out a prescription; a doctor can. The medical profession must accept some responsibility in this area as also, I believe, must the drug manufacturers. We hear  Senator Baume  say that the cost of drugs is rising. In which area does he mean the cost of drugs is rising? Does he mean at the consumer level or at the manufacturing level? Is he referring to the level of profits being extracted by drug manufacturers? I believe- and I have no evidence to the contrarythat the drug manufacturers that operate in this country are making tremendous profits. I believe also that most pharmaceutical chemists are making reasonable profits. 
I am concerned,  Senator Missen,  that I can go to a doctor and be prescribed a certain ointment. Unlike  Senator Grimes  I can give the Senate the name of that ointment. It is neosporin. I can get from a doctor a prescription for neosporin for my child's ailments. I can get that ointment on a prescription at a cost of $4.60. But I can go to the same chemist without a prescription and, provided that I inform the chemist that I am buying the same article in the same sized tube for my dog, I can get it for $3.40. There is some definite imbalance in the system. I would suggest that this is an area in which a comprehensive investigation is needed. 
It is rather like food manufacturers always stressing that they will state on the label of their products the ingredients used but saying that the only thing that prevents them is that there could be pilfering of the actual trade recipes. Yet those manufacturers will consistently label accurately the contents of tins of dog and cat food, but they will not label the ingredients of most of the foods that are transmitted to human beings. Much the same situation applies in the area of drugs. How many times has this happened to those who go into a pharmacy with a prescription? If one happens to have an honest chemist, that chemist will say: Really, there is no value in this prescription, because I can sell the product to you for less than I would charge to supply it on prescription. It is a patent medicine'. Alternatively, how many times does the chemist simply take down from a shelf a tube of ointment or a bottle of medicine, apply a label to it and sell it to the customer on script? It is a patent medicine. It is available. We do not need to go to the doctor to get that medicine, except that we need to know what it is that we require. I am concerned that those people who rely on these pharmaceutical benefits are the ones who will be disadvantaged even further. I know that the scheme is not successful. I know that only 10 per cent of the people who are eligible actually use it. 
I am talking about the pharmaceutical benefit. 
Yes. I am now going on to the subsidised health benefits. Only about 10 per cent of those who are eligible use the scheme. But that does not mean that these benefits should be taken away from the 10 per cent who do utilise the service. That does not mean that we should lay an additional charge on those people who require this assistance most. This is similar in effect to what we understand will happen to the Australian Legal Aid Office. The people who require this assistance may not necessarily know that this is there, so because it is not going to be utilised much the people who do use the service will be penalised. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is the Minister aware of statements in the  Sunday Independent  of 29 February relating to the use of the  Stirling  naval facility in Cockburn Sound by the United States Navy as a rest and recreation centre? As there would appear to have been little or no consultation with the authorities in Western Australia, will the Minister advise whether an approach has been made by the United States Government to the Australian Government to ascertain whether we- that 'we' means we in Western Australia who may not care to become part of another Las Vegas or even another King's Cross- would be prepared to make this facility available for that purpose? 
I desire to ask a supplementary question. Will the Minister for Social Security please advise the Senate of the membership of the Income Security Review Committee? 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security: As pensioners form a great part of the disadvantaged groups in our society and as the Government is committed to assisting the disadvantaged; as there was such a drastic increase in the most recent consumer price index and as the Government has deferred increases for pensioners until 1 May, will the Minister give immediate consideration- perhaps through the Income Security Review Committee, which she mentioned earlier- to increasing the amount pensioners are able to earn in this financial year without detriment to their pension or being subjected to further taxation, to enable them to live with some dignity? 
I must confess that I have found it to be a rather strange experience to sit on this side of the House and debate a Bill that I supported not so long ago when I was sitting on the opposite side of the House. I have also found it rather strange to see the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  who is the representative in this chamber of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  including in his second reading speech such gems of wisdom as the following statement: 
Many honourable senators will, no doubt, recall that the previous Government introduced legislation into Parliament in August 1975 designed, at the time, to serve similar purposes. 
Let me assure him that many honourable senators and many honourable people throughout Australia recall the introduction by the Labor Government of that legislation last August, the debate on it and the outcome of its introduction. I am sure that many political historians will recall the events, but the way they depict these events, of course, may not be to the liking of the Minister or of his Government. I assure the Minister that we on this side of the House will not forget in a hurry the events leading up to and including 1 1 November 1975. 
In the course of this debate a number of times have been mentioned that are a little out of sequence. I find it incumbent at this point to make sure, for the  Hansard  record, that they are put into some context. The legislation was introduced by the then Treasurer in the House of Representatives on 20 August, the day after the introduction of the Budget. Within one week it had passed all stages in that House and as is the custom it came to this House for concurrence. It was introduced on 27 August and the debate was resumed on 28 August. At some stage during his speech  Senator Baume  informed the Senate that it had taken something like 6 weeks to get a reply from the Minister representing the Treasurer in this House,  Senator Wriedt,  to questions that had been asked. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that 10 questions were asked by  Senator Cotton  on 28 August after leave had been granted. Replies were given by  Senator Wriedt  on 2 September. The next entry in  Hansard  relating to this issue is by  Senator Cotton  on 10 September when he made reference to the fact that on 2nd of that month the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  had been good enough to bring back some answers to the question asked on 29 August. In response to an interjection by  Senator Devitt,  who said- this is recorded on page 698 of  Hansard: 

 Senator, do you say that you have not got the answers? You asked a series of questions. Are you claiming that you have not got precise answers to the questions that you asked? 

 Senator Cotton replied: 

 Senator, I appreciate very much your continuous interest and your wish to help, but if you will let me proceed the whole scene will become clear. To repeat what I am saying now is that on 29 August 10 questions were asked. On 2 September we received answers to those 10 questions. 
There is no delay of 6 weeks there as  Senator Baume  asserted in his speech earlier today.  Senator Cotton  goes on to say: 
Following on from that we held the view that there was a need for more information, more specific detail, and some clarity in some of these areas which are still of concern. Accordingly, the Minister arranged for some senior Treasury officials to have a conference with a few of us on the morning of 3 September. 

 Senator Cotton is referring to the Minister of the Australian Labor Party, not the current Minister. He continued: 
We had a long discussion and indicated the areas of our concern and apprehension. We indicated our wish to have more  information  and we roughed out a series of questions which we have been since polishing up. 

 Senator Cotton goes on to thank the officers and the Minister for making their services available to the Opposition. He then said: 
We have drafted an additional series of questions which we believe would help to clarify this matter for us all. I have them available and they can be circulated in order that my honourable colleagues will have access to them. 
A further 18 questions were then asked. The questions were asked in a speech which began in the chamber at 5.27 p.m. on 10 September. At 5.53 on 10 September  Senator Wriedt  tabled answers to questions which had been asked earlier that day. I cannot see where there is a 6 weeks delay to any question which had been asked by the previous Opposition of the then Government about its Loan Bill. We have heard the Minister say in his second reading speech that we will no doubt recall that the previous Government introduced legislation and so on. Then  Senator Baume  said that his Party had to wait 6 weeks to get replies. After the Loan Bill and Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2) were introduced in August 1975 we saw the most destructive, obstructive opposition that lasted something like 1 1 weeks and culminated in the dissolution of both Houses of Parliament. 
We on this side of the House are not like the previous Opposition. We are constructive in opposition; we are not destructive. We are honourable people and honourable people realise that governments require money to operate the business of government for the people of Australia. That is why we are not opposing the Bills. I could, of course, be very critical, as some of my colleagues have already been, of the present Government in a great number of areas, particularly those in relation to the welfare of the disadvantaged.  Senator McAuliffe  earlier this evening outlined a number of areas which are creating a great deal of concern inside the community. Particularly as this cause for concern is being instigated by a government which professed in the Speech by the Governor-General here only a matter of weeks ago that it has an obligation to assist the disadvantaged in the community, I find, and my colleagues find I am sure, that it is rather reprehensible of the Government to be taking the actions that it is taking in various areas. 
I think we should look at some of the promises that were made or some of the statements that were made when my Government introduced a similar Bill. The Bill was debated during August, September, October and up to 1 1 November last year. We were accused then of cooking the books and endeavouring to hoodwink the people of Australia. We were even accused of being corrupt. We even heard the theme during the election campaign that we should return Australia to good housekeeping. People became convinced that balancing the national Budget was something like balancing the household Budget. Some people are good at it; some people are not. At that time we were considered not to be good housekeepers. But for the life of me 1 cannot see the similarity between balancing a household budget with a set amount of money and a set amount of debts to be paid each week and balancing a budget which applies to government business. To me a country which balances its books in their entirety and has no deficit is one which has no concern for the welfare of the people of that country. A straight transfer of money from one account to another is a simple bookkeeping entry. It will not alter the deficit in any one way.  Senator Baume  said that his Government would get funds from legitimate sources. The immediate thought that came to my mind was that perhaps his government calls selling our uranium to foreign investment a legitimate source of fund raising. I do not consider it a legitimate source. I consider it a tragedy that we even consider selling the national resources of this country to overseas owned and overseas controlled companies. It is an expedient way of raising money which will not benefit the people of Australia at all. 

 Senator Messner said that his Government was mopping up the excess liquidity from the private sector and that money was flowing in at the previous rates. I presume he meant by that statement that money was flowing into the building societies at the previous rates. I assure honourable senators that money may be flowing in but it certainly is not flowing out at the previous rate. People are applying to building societies throughout Australia and being knocked back. No money is available because the Government has soaked it up in this harebrained scheme which it came up with of paying 10 te per cent interest or something like that which no other private investment company could afford to pay. There are things which we should be looking at and the Government should be looking at when members of the Government make stupid statements saying that the economy is unsound. 
Let me draw attention to a newspaper article that appeared not so very long ago and which related to the profits of G. J. Coles and Company Pty Ltd. The article stated: 
Their already substantial profits became a record profit for the last 6 months. 
That is the last 6 months of 1975 which, of course, became the first half of this financial year. We hear talk about the great imposition on businesses, the taxes that were applied and all of these things. Yet here we have a company which has recorded a record profit for the first half of the financial year. 
My concern is about a few more mundane things. Whilst I am concerned that the Government will be spending money on the superphosphate bounty and whilst I am concerned that the $40 benefit for pensioners' funerals has been withdrawn, I am also concerned about such things as apprenticeship training and subsidies to industry for apprenticeship training. We have not heard a word on these issues from the present Government, but they are the basis of my concern. If we are to have a stable economy, we have to have more money going around. We will not have more money going around simply by opening up schemes which will pay an interest rate of 10.5 per cent over a set period. The same amount of money is just being diverted into different areas. As I have said, we are not going to be destructive in Opposition as the previous Opposition was. We are going to be constructive, but we are going to make sure that this Government keeps on the rails and does the best for the people of Australia. 
I do not want to delay the Senate for very long over this matter. In view of the remarks made by  Senator Baume  I wonder whether he is aware that there appears to be a growing school of thought among medical practitioners that children who suffer from croup should not have any dairy foods at all. I am not talking just about milk but about butter, cheese, and cakes or anything which has been made with milk. This even includes icecream. My son at the age of 18 months was very ill with croup. He was taken off all dairy foods and put on the cows' milk substitute. He is tested regularly over each 12-monthly period. At the age of 4 years he was able to return to a reasonably normal diet. He was under fairly strict supervision for the first 12 months. At the age of 6 years he is still having tests. According to my medical practitioner he will continue to have tests until he is 10 years old to make sure that his body can still tolerate a normal diet, including dairy foods. 
I was a little concerned that  Senator Baume  said that children can go without milk. We are not talking only about children going without milk. We are talking about their going without dairy products. Quite often doctors prescribe cows' milk substitutes to take over where the dairy foods would normally be provided in the diet of some children. I think this is a consideration which the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee should have a good look at. Quite often this preparation is prescribed not just as a milk substitute. Quite often it is prescribed as a substitute for all dairy foods in the child's diet. 
-The Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations will be aware that many men and women presently training under the National Employment and Training Scheme are about to be forced to take a wage cut- in fact, a cut of approximately $68 or $70 in their weekly income. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether this drastic action has been taken by the Government because some people supposedly have abused the scheme? If so, could this abuse have been encouraged by publication in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  of 29 October 1974 and in other newspapers throughout Australia of remarks reportedly made during an address at a fund-raising dinner for the Liberal Party of Australia, which read: 'I do not know if you have your wives in the NEAT scheme yet. But you should have. There is no easier may of making $5,000 a year', and which were attributed to a Liberal Party spokesman,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. The Minister may be aware that the Health Education Council in Western Australia has a publication entitled, 'How Clanger Molloy caught the clap and gave it to his girlfriend'. As reports indicate that the incidence of venereal disease is increasing throughout Australia, as the Premier of Western Australia has declared the publication pornographic without reference to the State-appointed Indecent Publications Committee and as there is a great need for constructive advice to be made available to all sections of the community on this matter, will the Minister give consideration to approaching the Health Education Council in Western Australia to obtain the 'Clanger Molloy' series and assist in the distribution of the same on a national basis through the Department of Health? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. By way of preface I inform the Minister that I was advised this morning that the Government has established a Chairmen of Committees Committee chaired by  Senator Chaney.  As a consequence I ask: What effect will the Chairmen of Committees Committee have on the workability of the committees in the existing committee system? Would it be correct to assume that the purpose of the Chairmen of Committees Committee is to centralise the control of all committees in order to ensure that committees do not probe too closely into areas which may be an embarrassment to the Government? 
Tonight I want to look at a number of subjects but, most importantly, the inequitable taxation system which operates in Australia. I am concerned that it is heavily weighted against women and, perhaps, only lightly weighted against men. I fully appreciate that there are circumstances in which men in particular positions are discriminated against. This occurs in respect of deserted husbands and single male parent families, as well as single female parent families. I would like to go into that area later in a little depth. At the moment my prime concern is that women are discriminated against whether they stay at home or choose to go to work. 
I heard the 'Oh' from the honourable senator on the opposite side of the chamber who in all probability has had an unpaid housekeeper sitting at home all these years. As a taxpayer he may be interested to know that there is discrimination against women. Perhaps this is why there are only 5000 women among the 46 000 top money earners in Australia. I do not know about  Senator Sim,  but I am quite prepared to put my cards on the table for public review. I am prepared to say that because of my parliamentary and community duties it is necessary for me to employ a housekeeper for the welfare of my son and my family but that the Commissioner of Taxation has seen fit not to allow me a $364 deduction in respect of that housekeeper. If my child was handicapped it would make a difference, although because I am the wife of another taxpayer it is likely that he would be treated in the same way. I am concerned that this is perhaps one of the reasons that women stay out of Parliament. After all, we have only 6 women in this chamber while there are 58 men. My male colleagues who do no more, and sometimes do a darned sight less than I, in general have an unpaid housekeeper for whom they claim not only the $364 deduction but also any additional expenses involved in the health and welfare of their spouse. 
My situation is no different from that of any number of women who work in the community, whether from economic necessity, because they are concerned that having only a male breadwinner places a strain on the man and could leave them widows in early life, or whether purely and simply they desire to go out to work to fulfil themselves. These women are not allowed to claim such things as child day care charges or after school care charges. They cannot claim the $364 deduction for a replacement for themselves while they are out working. I am not talking about claiming money paid as salaries or about claiming accommodation, board or lodging charges but simply about the amount of $364 which is allowed to a male if he employs a housekeeper in particular circumstances. 
There are particular circumstances. The Taxation Act states that male taxpayers are allowed to claim for a female housekeeper whereas female taxpayers are not. I am just as concerned about male and female partners in a marriage who at some stage have to employ a housekeeper. I do not know whether honourable senators opposite are aware that it is not always possible to obtain housekeepers and that often it is not possible to obtain a housekeeper who does not have already dependants of her own. One could find that if the unpaid housekeeper of a family unit is incapacitated for any length of time necessitating the employment of a replacement it may be necessary to employ a person with one or more children who would be solely dependent on the taxpayer. However, he is not allowed to claim those children as taxation deductions. He is not, for instance, allowed to claim any expenses incurred in their education or for their board and lodgings, and he is not allowed to claim wages paid to the housekeeper, unless he happens to be registered as a company. We have to look very seriously at the present situation to see whether there are inequities that need to be straightened out to enable people in particular circumstances to maintain a reasonable standard of living. For instance, it is time that we looked very closely at the normal unpaid housekeeper and her role. Today I was interested to receive in the mail from the Women's Electoral Lobby a representation relating to probate. I assume that each and every member of both Houses of this Parliament has received this representation in relation to probate. 
Before I touch on that I would like to ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  who in this chamber represents the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  what the situation will be now with the change in our life styles, where we find that couples are reversing the traditional sex roles. On a number of occasions it is the female who is going out to support the family. With the change in life style it will be most interesting to see what the Commissioner of Taxation will determine in regard to the woman who decides to go out to work and become the bread winner, and the male who remains at home and looks after the house and the family. I await that decision with interest. I assure honourable senators that many men and women in the community also await that decision with interest. 
I return to the submission of the Women's Electoral Lobby. I do not intend to read the submission because it is some pages long. I ask the Treasurer at least to have a look at it. Perhaps 1 could refer to what the Women's Electoral Lobby says in its covering letter. It makes a number of very pertinent remarks not only about widows but also about widowers, and there might even be some of those in this chamber. In its letter the Women 's Electoral Lobby says: 
In this day and age, we all know that the existing legislation has a discriminatory effect on widows, owing to most family assets being in the husband 's name. Therefore, a widower rarely has to pay Death Duties or suffer a lowering of his living standard due to probate. Whereas a widow usually has to pay death duties on most of the family assets, which means that she would have to live at a reduced standard of living once she becomes a widow. 
After all, a divorced spouse does not have to pay a divorce tax on the portion of the family asset passing to her or him.  ****** 
To quote from a reported statement by Professor Sackville, "there is a lot to be said for the proposition that when it comes to sharing assets, a widow is worse off than a woman getting divorced Tax consequences for the widow are much more severe. The law in this area is unjust and ought to be changed.' 
We have explained how the W.E.L Policy on Death Duties could be implemented without any loss of government revenue. We are bitterly disappointed that no Member has yet introduced a Bill in Parliament to amend the existing legislation which financially disadvantages widows and deprives them of self respect and dignity in old age. 
The only thing I would query in the letter is this statement in the first paragraph: 
How will posterity view our present-day treatment of widows? They are, the statistics reveal, mostly in the older age group. 
I believe the statistics show that most widows are aged between SO years and 65 years, and that is not in the older age group. 
Yes, I appreciate that. I am aware that there are some mistakes also in relation to my own State. We are now seeing the reverse side of the coin. For instance, we see that, if a woman chooses to stay at home and contribute by her physical capacities or capabilities in that area, she is penalised purely and simply because she stays at home. Unless she can prove that she has worked and has contributed to the financial aspect of running the house and has made payments on the house, her home will go up for probate. 
We are not referring only to the progressive State of Victoria. We even have our own natural disaster in Western Australia in the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court. Even the last cyclone was not game to come down to Perth to face him. It veered off before it reached Perth. But there are laws there which make it extremely difficult for women who suddenly find themselves widowed. 
I think we also have to look at the situation of the single woman or the single man who out of love or duty to her or his parents decides to stay at home and look after them when they are no longer able to look after themselves. What happens to a single man if his parents die and do not give their property to him beforehand- at which time he would have to pay gift duty on it? If his parents die or are killed in an accident, he has to have his possession subjected to probate. People in this situation are penalised for the love that they bear for their parents. 
As I have said, it is necessary for a woman to be able to establish that at some time during her married life she has worked and has contributed financially to the establishment and maintenance of a home so that she can be eligible, after the death of her husband, to receive that home free of probate. I know of instances where wives have taken out insurance policies on their husbands' lives in the belief that when their husbands die they are entitled to a certain amount of money. They think that this will give them security if and when their husbands die. This is not the case in most States, although I am not speaking for all States. But I can say that unless a wife can establish once again that she has worked and has been capable of paying premiums on an insurance policy, the possibility of her getting that amount of money is extremely slender. 
One other point that I wish to raise tonight concerns women's refuges which are operating in all States. I am concerned that after the present Government has been in office for 4 months we have not had a definite statement on what the future role of these organisations will be. I can speak only about the situation in Western Australia because I have close ties with the Nardine women's refuge there. I am concerned about the situation where people are caring for women who find it necessary, generally in the middle of the night, to leave their matrimonial home, quite often in a distressed state and quite often accompanied by children. The Nardine women's refuge can accommodate 9 families. I can assure honourable senators that the accommodation is extremely cramped. The people at the refuge turn away 3 complete families for every one that they accept. Up to the present I think that about 500 women and more than 1500 children have been turned away from the refuge. 
It would appear that there is available a great amount of housing on either a transitional or a temporary basis, in which these people could be located. I suggest that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  the Minister for 
Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  could get together and determine what their policy will be on the use, for instance, of places such as migrant hostels which are still standing and which are still operating in most States. In Western Australia there is the Graylands Hostel which I know at present is accommodating people who have come not only from Darwin but also from Timor. 
I would not like to deprive people who require emergency housing of this accommodation, but I can see no reason why women who clutter up women's refuges- quite often they clutter up women's refuges purely and simply because they have nowhere else to go- could not be housed in this type of accommodation. The State Housing Commission in Western Australia apparently has taken a much stronger view on the interpretation of the word 'emergency' as, I think, have most of the other State House Commissions. It does not necessarily mean that because a woman comes from a refuge and is in dire straits, her only alternative is to return to an unhappy marital situation where in all possibility she is subjected to some physical activity. Yet there does not seem to be any realisation on the part of the State Housing Commission that these women are in drastic need of emergency housing. A number of homes in Western Australia could be utilised. More importantly vacancies exist at Graylands Hostel, which, as I said earlier, is already operating. The time of the people who operate the refuges is in such demand that they just do not have the time to go to see Ministers. They do not have the time to make submissions. They do not have the time even to go and see prospective housing of the people for whom they care. 
Lots of people go to refuges only in need of a shoulder to cry on, a cup of tea or a word in their ear. A lot go there because they have been mentally and physically beaten to such an extent that they can no longer see what is right and what is wrong for either themselves or their families. All governments- State governments, local governments and in particular the Federal Governmenthave a responsibility to the people of Australia to ensure that their welfare is looked after. I should like to conclude by asking the Minister for Social Security to get together with the people I have already mentioned to establish whether in actual fact more use can be made of the migrant hostels which are fully outfitted and whether some consideration can be given to reducing the present charges for rent and accommodation. I understand that at Graylands for instance people are required to pay in the vicinity of $40 per week per person. This, of course, is not possible for people who suddenly find themselves with no money at all or a supporting mother's benefit which is not that large. I suggest that the Minister for Social Security confer with the other 2 people involved and raise the matter of what can be done, even on a temporary basis, for people who are in drastic need inside our community who have absolutely nowhere to go. I assure the Minister that the figures that have been taken out in reference to Nardine would indicate that only 3 per cent of those who are turned away find alternative accommodation; the other 97 per cent return to their unhappy marital situation. 
Before dealing at any length with the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade on prospects of trade between Indonesia and Australia, there are some important remarks that I made on the presentation of the report on 25 February last that I wish to reiterate. I wish to stress that all the evidence had been received and considered and that the report had actually been compiled and was being prepared for presentation to this Parliament before the situation between Indonesia and East Timor developed. Whether that situation would have had any bearing on the decision of the Committee to look at Indonesia or whether it would have affected the findings of the Committee is a matter of sheer speculation at this point of time. I make that statement simply because I want to avoid the possibility of any misinterpretation by this Parliament, by individual members of either House of the Parliament or by members of the Australian community. 
The decision of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade to look into the prospects of trade between Indonesia and Australia was not one which was taken lightly. The Committee was aware of some of the problems which had been encountered by the previous Committee under the chairmanship of a fellow Western Australian, former  Senator Laurie  Wilkinson, when it decided to look at the prospects for trade between New Zealand and Australia.  Senator Wilkinson  said in his report that the Committee had found that because it was not possible to travel to the country under investigation, it had had to base its observations mainly on information derived from secondary sources. I assure the Senate that the Committee which I had the pleasure to chair during 1974 and 1975 experienced the same difficulties. Perhaps in our case those problems were emphasised because we were looking at a country where there are no similar cultures, no similar life styles and few similar industries. Yet we were commissioned by the Parliament to undertake a most important study and to bring down a most important and highly relevant report. 
If Senate committees, or parliamentary committees for that matter, are to operate effectively and to bring down constructive reports which will be taken notice of by the government of the day, the contribution that those committees ultimately will make in the various areas under scrutiny must take into consideration the fact that sometimes it is necessary or even essential to travel to other countries. It has been stated on any number of occasions- I doubt very much whether any member of this chamber or of the other place has not been told of this at some stage- that politicians are always wanting jaunts overseas. Of course, it is generally said by unenlightened people who are selfish enough to imagine that a parliament can operate totally and effectively within its own country. No parliament can do this effectively. It cannot exist just for itself. Each country has a responsibility to contribute to the world situation, and each country has to be concerned with trading relations between it and other countries, as much as it is concerned with the welfare and the wellbeing of the people of its own country. I hope that the present Government will look at the problems of committee work, especially of those committees that are investigating other countries. The Government should determine that if there is sufficient justification the committee as a whole should have the opportunity of obtaining at first hand the necessary information and possibly the short term expertise to enable it to bring down the most effective report, which would then be given the most serious consideration by the Government. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade endeavoured, under its terms of reference, to take into account as wide a variety of trade and trading prospects as possible, as well as the different life styles in 2 nations. I think I speak for all members of the Committee when I say that we were heartened by the response of individuals, of companies already operating in Indonesia, of companies which saw the potential for operating in Indonesia and of companies which were interested in investing in that country. The number of submissions that were received, the number of submissions that were given personally and the wide variety of industries that were covered indicated to us that there was a need for an investigation of this nature and substantiated the investigation that we had undertaken. Unfortunately, because of the extended sittings of the Parliament last year it was not possible for the Committee to undertake hearings in all States, although we did hold public hearings in both Victoria and New South Wales. But I feel that perhaps it would have been more enlightening if we had been able to take the Committee to all States to investigate the situation there in relation to problems that were being experienced by industries and by individuals who were desirous of entering into the Indonesian-Australian market. 
I should like at this stage to acknowledge the invaluable help of the Committee secretariat.  Mr Peter  Dawe, the secretary, who has now been lost to that particular Committee,  Mr Claus  Ducker, who was our original research officer but who was eventually replaced by  Mr Ken  Bone, all did a tremendous job and it would be remiss of me if, on behalf of the Committee, I did not acknowledge their assistance. I should hate to think of the number of times that public hearings that had been set up had to be cancelled at almost a moment's notice, yet it was carried out, as one of the airline companies said, with a minimum of fuss, as all of the other duties of the secretariat were carried out. 
Many important organisations appeared before the Committee, either in camera or in public hearings. Perhaps because it could be the most contentious part of the Committees report, I shall deal first with the area relating to what is termed in the report as 'unorthodox practices'. We heard a great deal about this from a number of sources and were concerned that it appeared necessary at times, in order to obtain the slightest assistance or service in Indonesia, to pay a fee, a commission or a percentage of a tender. But if we place that in its true context perhaps it could be said that we in Australia, as in most other countries, contribute also in this area. We do not see anything wrong, for instance, in paying levies or service charges for services rendered. Perhaps it is only because no regular charge- no regular fee or regular percentage- is sought in Indonesia that the procedures there look irregular. However, from the evidence that was given to the Committee it would appear that this was a major complication and a major deterrent to some businesses that had a desire to operate in that country. It was considered by some as a major impediment even to their conducting surveys or feasibility studies that could have enabled them to set up industries, either capital intensive or labor intensive, in Indonesia. Whilst the Indonesian Government is aware of the situation and is making every endeavour to combat the problem- that in itself is commendable- I think that it will have to go a little deeper than that. 
If it is anticipated that fees will be payable, for instance, for consideration of applications for joint ventures or for industries to become a viable proposition in that country, then the Government of Indonesia has to make a more serious contribution and a more serious effort to combat the situation that exists at the present time. The Government of Indonesia has to be prepared to stand up and say: 'This is wrong and we will not countenance it'. The Indonesian Government has to have the strength to say: 'We will not condone it, neither will we participate in that activity'. 
I believe that the Australian Government itself can play a vital and most significant role in this area through discussions with the Indonesian Government and with the people who are already operating there, and by concrete action which could be taken from Australia against companies which actually participate in and condone these actions by being prepared to make payments of unorthodox fees. As far as I can see there is no value in being prepared to say: 'Yes, we know it exists but companies here in Australia are not complaining about it too much so let us not do anything about it; we can sweep it under the carpet and pretend it is not there'. If a company in Australia is prepared to pay an extra S per cent, 10 per cent or whatever the going rate is at a particular point of time, to gain a tender or a contract, it does not necessarily mean that it is right. It does not necessarily mean that this practice will make it easier for other companies and industries to be involved in either joint ventures or individual investments in Indonesia. 
I had forwarded to me this week by the new secretariat ofthe old Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade an article from the  Financial Review  of 29 March entitled 'World corruption commission is coming'. Because of the airline strike this piece of information had not been made available to my research officer. Because of the relationship of this article to the statements that I made previously, I should like to quote some sections from it. The article was written by Nicholas Leslie of the  London Financial Times  and it states: 
A group of influential public figures from different parts of the world will meet in London next month to embark on a study of corruption in business. 
They form a commission set up by the International Chamber of Commerce to look at 'unethical practices' at a time when the way some companies obtain business is coming under close scrutiny, particularly in the U.S. 
Britain's Lord Shawcross has been appointed  chairman  of the commission. From his background as an international lawyer, businessman and former politician, he intends to elicit evidence from countries, companies and individuals and may call on the United Nations for support. A code of conduct might then be drawn up. 
Seven people have so far been appointed to the commission, embracing countries such as Belgium, Sweden, India, the U.S. and the U.K. This still leaves three places vacant, which it is hoped will be filled by representatives from France, the Middle East and Latin America. There is also a small secretariat and the advice of a firm of accountants and solicitors will also be sought. 
The recent announcement of the commission by the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), whose general aim is to foster fair trade and competition, has brought only a low key response in the U.K. 
I should have thought that because the incidence of bribery and corruption in foreign ports, particularly in the area of shipping, and in the transportation of goods inside countries, would appear to be fairly high, this announcement would have brought a much larger response, not only in the United Kingdom but also in Australia. I am concerned that there has not been a repeat of the publishing of this article or of an article identical to this one in any other paper. Certainly if this article has been republished it has not come to my notice. The article continues: 
It seems likely the  situaion  will remain that way despite the sharper interest in the U.S. current investigation into the same issue. Unless some instance of corruption emerges in the U.K., the commission will carry out its investigations well away from the public gaze and any report of its findings is unlikely to emerge before the end of the year. 
It is reprehensible that, when the International Chamber of Commerce has gone to the trouble of setting up such an important Committee to look at a situation which is preventing true and free trade between countries, as far as I can ascertain no one is really going to do much about the matter. If in actual fact the International Chamber of Commerce is setting up such a committee then surely the findings of that Committee will be most important, not only to the countries represented on the Committee, but also to any countries throughout the world which find it necessary to trade with other countries. 
The items that were discussed by the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade are too many to mention here, but I feel that some of them are of great importance. For instance, we felt that one of our recommendations should be that if requested by Indonesia Australia should give consideration to providing assistance in the establishment of a stock exchange. I personally was concerned that in Indonesia where the annual income averages out at something like US$ 120- I think my figures are correct but without referring to the report I could not verify them- I think something like 4000 banking facilities are available, a great number of which appear to be inside the village communities where people, I presume, bank goods, services or, when possible, money. It was felt by the Committee that, to enable the small income earnerthe person most disadvantaged in the Indonesian community- to participate to a greater degree perhaps Australia should make an approach. It was considered that that was a little unethical, that the approach would have to come from Indonesia and that perhaps the Indonesian Government, having been forwarded a copy of the report, would give serious consideration in the very near future to requesting Australia to give assistance with the establishment of a stock exchange. 
The Committee also felt that it was necessary to set up a double taxation agreement between the 2 countries. The evidence that was received in this area was vast and covered a great number of industries which are finding problems because no double taxation agreement exists. It was also found that there are problems when tenders are taken up by Australian companies for whatever reason. Some banks ia.Australia are apprehensive about issuing credit on letters of credit from the Indonesian Government. This causes the companies involved some financial hardship. To my way of thinking, there is no value in tendering to dredge a harbour which will cost the Indonesian Government, say, $1.5m, having a letter of credit for that amount to a bank in Australia and not being able to draw funds to maintain in employment the people needed actually to dredge the harbour. So perhaps we should look at the banking system in Australia to see what can be done to assist in the development of other countries, particularly those in close proximity to Australia. Perhaps the Government should be suggesting that where a letter of credit exists from a government to a banking corporation in Australia, credit should be extended. 
The Committee also looked at the problem of education. During the parliamentary recess of July-August last year I took the opportunity to spend 12 days of my vacation in Indonesia. I must pay tribute to the Pertamina oil company for extending to me as  Chairman  of the Committee the greatest courtesy and in providing me with facilities to travel to areas that were inaccessible by road or rail so that I could see parts of the country that had been mentioned in evidence before the Committee. I was concerned to find that in Indonesia there was no obvious intention at this point of time to endeavour to educate the young people. In Singapore now there is mandatory free education for 7 years but this does not exist in Indonesia. Great problems will be created for families who may never see any cash as such and who are accustomed to dealing only in goods if they suddenly find that they have to provide 100 rupiahs a week to ensure that their children receive some form of basic education. 
One hundred rupiahs is approximately 25c Australian. In an affluent society that is not considered to be a great amount of money but I assure honourable senators that for the Indonesian people it is a great problem. In the short time that I spent in Indonesia some concern appeared to be expressed by the low income groups about the availability of facilities for educating their children. 
To a person who has been brought up in a society where child labour is not permitted, the child labour situation was most disturbing. Perhaps the Government could look at the situation that exists in most of the towns and cities of Indonesia where it is found that young people were not fully aware of their date of birth or how old they were but they were the most astute bargainers and they knew exactly the value of the United States dollar and the Australian dollar in Indonesian rupiahs. I had a great amount of difficulty with the conversion. I think it is important not only from the Australian point of view but also from an Indonesian point of view, that the Government take stock of the situation and realise that Indonesia has to develop its own country to a large extent and particularly in the area of education. 
The Committee looked at the situation which exists in the field of tourism. Whilst the consumers of tourism in the eastern States are not badly off, I assure honourable senators that the consumers in Western Australia are extremely badly done by when it comes to easy accessibility to places in Indonesia such as Jakarta, Yogyakarta and Bali. I note with interest that over the last few months, since the report was compiled, we now have a direct airline service from Port Hedland via Darwin to Bali. Perhaps later it could be extended to Perth. I hope that the Government will look seriously at this situation and make it possible for more people to tour inside Australia and for more Australian people to tour in the territory of our nearest trading neighbours. 
In October of last year the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill came before the Senate. The remarks that I made at that time were relevant to the report that was being compiled by the Committee. I would like to refresh the Senate's memory. Honourable senators will remember that the purpose of the Bill was to establish a trading corporation which would be responsible in part for the trading between countries. I was interested in the submission made to the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade by the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers 
Association which was in favour of the establishment of an Australian overseas trading corporation. The Association saw it as being even wider than that envisaged in the Bill that was introduced last year. It saw it as being a vehicle for the location of tenders and for advising Australian companies of tenders that were available not only in Indonesia but in all other countries. One of the biggest problems appears to be that companies operating in Australia are not always aware of what tenders are being called and what facilities are available in other countries. The HEMA group put forward the theory that an organisation similar to the Overseas Trading Corporation could be the medium to be used. 
There was no attempt by the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association or by any of the other witnesses who appeared before the Committee to denigrate the present role of the trade commissioners in Indonesia. In fact I could go so far as to say that all of the comments made were favourable. It was felt that the representation by the Department of Overseas Trade was perhaps not as strong as it should be and that there was a need to make more expertise available and also a need for more trade displays to be arranged to enable people in Australia to know what is happening in the area of production in Indonesia and for people in Indonesia to know what we have to offer. The Overseas Trading Corporation Bill was almost identical with the Bill which was passed by the previous New Zealand Government to set up the New Zealand Export-Import Corporation. I presume that, as I have not heard anything to the contrary, that Corporation is still operating under the new Government in New Zealand. I was interested in a report that appeared in the New Zealand  Herald Financial Review.  A small article appeared in the  Canberra Times  on Wednesday, 13 August last year. However, the basis for the article was another article which appeared in the  Herald Financial Review  newspaper in New Zealand. I do not know the date on which it appeared in that newspaper. It stated: 
Controversy and dire forebodings attended the birth, tittle more than a year ago, of the New Zealand Export-Import Corporation. 
Some manufacturers, and the Opposition, were quick to spot the big brother of socialism in Government moves to set up a corporation which would compete in trade on an equal footing with private enterprise. 
This was not the intention of the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill. It was not intended that the Corporation would be competing on an equal footing with private enterprise. Perhaps with some amendment, the Bill could have been justifiably adjusted to suit the situation that had been envisaged by the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association in that it would become an organisation to obtain information and to dispense information on projects in other countries. I was rather disappointed that the then Opposition decided that the Bill was not a worthy one for consideration. I am rather sad now that the Bill was unsuccessful because I believe that it would have contributed a great deal to Australia and to its overseas trading with other countries. 
One of the big problems in Indonesia would appear to be a lack of design information with regard to the cottage industries which are an essential part of particularly the Indonesian village way of life. I mentioned very briefly a little while ago the subject of child labour. There is a lot of child labour in that country. I am concernedthe Committee was also- at evidence that was presented to us. It would appear from that evidence that there is no design information centre so that cottage industries can adjust their designs to suit markets in other countries. One, of the recommendations of the Committee is that the Australian Development Assistance Agency should investigate the possibility of assisting in the establishment of an institute in Indonesia aimed at overcoming deficiencies in management and design techniques. This has particular relevance for handicraft and cottage industries. The institute could also play a part in the development of technologies appropriate for local conditions. 
I found as I went through Indonesia that there were a great number of young people working in areas to fill a market which they believed existed in Australia but which in actual fact did not exist. As a woman, perhaps I should explain that the majority of women who I know wear stoles or scarves that would be approximately 5 feet to 6 feet in length. Unfortunately, the cottage industries in Indonesia manufacture them for the people of Indonesia to wear. These stoles or scarves are only 3 feet 6 inches to 4 feet in length and are totally unsuitable for the Australian market. But nobody has ever bothered to explain to the manufacturers- these cottage industry workers- that they are not acceptable on the Australian market. The same remarks apply to wicker work and basket weaving that is being done in a variety of fibres. The shape of the baskets in the first place is not conducive to the Australian needs. The strength is not always as the Australian people are accustomed to it being. When I pointed this out to a number of the people who were presumably in charge of that area of the cottage industry, they said: 'How do we know what you want if no one tells us?' My reply was: 'How will you know if you do not ask?' But if we look at the position, we realise that there is no one they can ask and there is no one we can tell, apart from the trade commisioners, the representatives of the Department of Overseas Trade. However, it is not possible for those officers to go into every single cottage industry in Indonesia to ensure that the information reaches the right people. 
As a Committee, we looked also into the problems involved in shipping. This was the area which perhaps took up most of the time of the Committee. A number of people wanted to tell us about the problems of shipping goods to and from Indonesia. There are 3 recommendations on this subject in the report. I will not read them but they are items 10, 11 and 12 in the recommendations on page 6 of the report. It is quite incredible to fly over the port of Tanjung Priok in a helicopter as I did and see the number of ships that are docked and unloading, loading or simply waiting to come into the port to be unloaded. I wondered just what type of goods those ships were carrying. If they were perishable goods, the possibility of them being at least of any nutritional value by the time they arrived at their destination was quite remote. The Committee members were told of instances in which there were something like a backlog of 32 ships waiting to discharge their goods at Tanjung Priok. It is a great problem because if we speak about shipping these days we speak almost automatically about containerisation. There are no facilities for containerisation in any of the ports that I looked at in Indonesia. But even if there are containerisation facilities, there are the problems of offloading the containers. This in itself creates even bigger problems in a congested port. I suppose that it could be said that we should be looking at the establishment- certainly, the Indonesians should be- of new port facilities which can accept containerisation, including freezer containers. However, if we were to introduce freezer containers, we would also have to accept the fact that in Indonesia very few people have any facilities to keep frozen goods. There are very few facilities to store the perishable commodities that we find so readily available to us and which we use so readily in Australia. 
It is extremely difficult for an Australian parliamentary committee to take evidence from people in Australia who have operated mainly out of Australia and to say: 'This is the solution; we have the answer to all of the problems; we will tell the people how to go about doing it'. It does not work that way and I do not think that any committee would deign to presume to do things like that. Because we have a problem in the area of shipping in Australia as well as in Indonesia, I am concerned that there does not appear to be a great deal of activity from governmentsfrom the Indonesian government or from the Australian Government- to ensure that the situation is rectified in as short a time as possible. Recommendation 12 from the Committee is as follows: 
Inspection by Indonesian Port Authorities of Australian port installations, including facilities for containerisation, may be of mutual benefit. 
This is all very well. But do we bring the Indonesians to Australia and say to them: 'Look, is this not marvellous? We have our ports of Fremantle, Sydney and Melbourne. We are doing all sorts of wonderful things up in the north west of Western Australia to ship out the iron ore. Take the knowledge you have gained in a week back home to Indonesia and do the same.'? The Indonesians perhaps could be said to be slow thinking. By virtue of their environment, they have to be basically slow moving. Things do not move fast in Indonesia and solving the shipping problem will not be achieved faster than solving the problems in any of the other areas that the Committee covered during its investigations. We endeavoured to cover a wide variety of problem areas or what we saw as being problem areas. They were propositions that were put to us as being problem areas by various industries throughout Australia. We endeavoured to go just a little further and examine problems inside the country itself. 
Of course, one of the big problems in Indonesia is its over population. I read with interest the remarks by  Senator Sheil  in the Senate in a first reading debate on 25 March this year which indicated to me that  Senator Sheil  has no idea whatsoever of the problems of instituting, policing or even proposing birth control programs in any other country. It would appear that  Senator Sheil  would have us believe that we have the right and the responsibility to tell what he calls Third World countries to control their population growth but that we should not seriously think of doing it in the way that perhaps the women who are not only physically and emotionally involved but also financially involved in this area would wish it done. I am concerned that  Senator Sheil  obviously does not think that the women in those countries have any rights to determine what methods of birth control will be used. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade looked at the problem of the binh control programs that have been undertaken by the Indonesian Government. It is heartening to know that those programs are being undertaken. I think I can only reiterate what  Senator Ryan  had to say in reply to  Senator Sheil  on 25 March on the first reading stage of, rather inappropriately I feel, the Dried Vines Fruits Levy Amendment Bill. Perhaps it could be said that it is the women who are withering on the dried vine.  Senator Ryan  said: 
I would like to add to the remarks of  Senator Sheil  some of the reasons given for the failure of these programs in Third World countries, reasons which really had nothing at all to do with the ubiquitous influence of Fabian socialism. The women of the Third World became very angry  at the kinds of population control programs that were being inflicted on their sisters because those programs were based on Western values and Western technologies and completely ignored the spiritual and cultural values of the women who were supposed to fit into those programs. It was from many tragic experiences where women involuntarily were subjected by visiting specialists to forms of birth control that were totally alien to their values of family and child rearing and child bearing that opposition to Western-type population control grew to the extent that there was a massive political rejection of these programs at the Romanian conference. I think if  Senator Sheil  had considered what was said by women delegates at that conference he would be better informed as to why some of the population control programs in the Third World had failed. 
It was the view of those women, women who were intimately involved in what is happening to their sisters in the Third World countries, that if population control is to be successful, it must be something that the women themselves want and understand and which does not destroy their whole fabric of family life. 
The whole fabric of family life in Indonesia is based on the system that perhaps we would do well to look at in part. That is that each supports the other to the best of his or her ability and that no one wants. If anyone wants, they all want. But everything is shared. The Committee looked at this aspect and we asked questions on the birth control programs that were being activated by the Indonesian Government. But we did not deign to suggest that birth control programs should be instituted if that was not the wish of the people. 
The problems run a little deeper than that. We must look at what is happening with respect to transmigration. That is what is going to happen if the country continues to populate as it is at this time. A transmigration program is under way where whole villages are just taken up and moved to Kalimantan and other islands. But this cannot go on for any length of time. Indonesia will soon run out of land. I know that there are 6000 islands in the Indonesian archipelago but they will not be sufficient to sustain the 
Indonesian population if its growth continues at its present rate. 
Perhaps as an aside I could comment while we are talking on binh control about a statement that appeared in the Melbourne  Age  this morning in an article by Michelle Grattan. The article states: 
The Federal Government has scrapped plans to finance a centre in Melbourne to give young people contraceptive advice and sex counselling. 
I find it most disturbing and rather remarkable to think that the Commonwealth Government of Australia- I almost made a  faux pas  and said the Australian Government'; I need to keep reminding myself that we have returned to the neo-colonialist age where we say the 'Commonwealth Government of Australia'- in this day and age when there is a need for more instruction on sex, when there is a desperate need for more instruction on diseases that are transmitted from one human being to another, and when there is a desperate need for people to be informed of these matters, would plan on preventing finance or any further finance going to a centre in Melbourne. I understand that the centre is already set up. It has been purchased and furnished. It has been set up already to commence work as an action centre. 
I wonder whether the answer to the question that I asked some weeks ago relating to family planning centres and specifically those in Western Australia will in actual fact be that they are not to be continued or that they are not to continue receiving funding from the Commonwealth Government. I would express as much concern on that matter as I am expressing now about the situation which exists in Indonesia. I would not presume to suggest to the Indonesian Government that it should have an enforced birth control program. I would assume that the Indonesian Government would see it as essential and that it would be doing everything in its power not only to inform people what birth control is all about but also to make sure that birth control is what the people themselves want. Society in Indonesia is based on the family unit as a whole, which is a slightly different concept from that which we have in Australia. 
Madam Acting  Deputy President,  I cannot conclude my participation in this debate without thanking all those people who participated in the work of the Committee. I refer to those who made themselves available, either by coming to Canberra or attending in Sydney or Melbourne, appeared before us and gave their submissions in person. A great number of them went to the trouble of putting in highly relevant and extremely detailed written submissions. A great deal of time, energy and money was expended by a number of organisations who saw the need for an investigation of this type. 
My one hope is that, a report having been prepared and that report having been debated in this chamber, we will have a government which may take notice of it. I have looked at the situation in the past and I have found that a lot of reports are introduced, debated and then go into limbo, sometimes for many, many years. No one ever bothers to get a copy. The situation in the Journals, Records and Bills Office of the Senate downstairs is becoming fairly drastic. That office is running out of room. Perhaps it might be time to move out copies of this report and to make sure at least that every member of Parliament has a copy and reads it. I approve the recommendations and conclusions in that report. I commend it to the Senate. 
In directing my question to the Minister for Social Security, I refer to her recent announcement that a departmental working party had been set up to review the aged persons welfare program. Was not a Ministerial working party set up by the previous Government late last year to review this program? If so, has this working party reported? What were the working party's findings? Why is it necessary to conduct a further inquiry? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it not a fact that there is a serious shortage of social workers with qualifications or backgrounds suitable for work with ethnic welfare agencies? Has the Government received suggestions and submissions from ethnic welfare agencies to overcome the problem? Does the Government intend to take any action to relieve the present serious situation? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I move: 
That the Senate requests the Government to undertake an immediate investigation into food prices, including: 
wholesalers ' mark-ups; 
the correlation of production costs to retail prices; and 
the disparity between prices paid to primary producers and the end cost to consumers. 
On researching this matter, I was alarmed at the little information which is made available. That which is available is extremely out of date. But it is a common belief that producers obtain less and less for their products, their efforts and their capital investment than anyone else in our economy. It is a commonly held belief that wholesalers who provide little in the way of productive output take an exorbitant rake-off for their efforts. 
We are continually hearing, for instance, that the primary producer is getting so little for his product and the consumer is being fleeced so continuously. We hear harrowing tales of farmers losing on their investments and virtually living on less than the age pension. These statements alarm one. But, on research, we find that it is a very difficult task to obtain any factual information and, as I said, the information that is available is all out of date. The type of information which is made available needs to be seriously studied in relation to the dissection of programs and dissection of information. 
Some studies have been carried out in respect of meat by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. But the usefulness of this information is somewhat impaired in that that knowledge relates to the period January 1970 to December 1 973 and, of course, this does not cover the enure period of extreme hardship which the farmers claim they have suffered and are continuing to suffer. Nevertheless the results of that analysis are useful in some respects. I refer to the results from a study by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics on meat marketing entitled  A Report on Price Differentials in the Meat Market  which bears close analysis. I have selected some statistics covering prices to the producer, the wholesaler and the retailer for 3 classes of meat, namely, ox/heifer, lamb and mutton. At a later stage in my speech I will be asking for leave to incorporate a number of tables in  Hansard. 
The report shows that prices to the wholesaler have not risen substantially, which surprises me more than a little, and demonstrates for example that the price to the producer rose 46.4 per cent in the period January 1970 to December 1973 whilst in the same period the price charged by the wholesaler increased 48.6 per cent and that charged by the retailer increased 65.2 per cent. If we look very closely at the results, they show that the price differential achieved by the wholesaler was actually less than that achieved in January 1970 for a substantial time in the period to December 1970 whereas the price differential enjoyed by the retailer showed a substantial gain. The price differential in the period January 1970 to December 1973 for the wholesaler varied substantially from 15.39 per cent in October 1971 to 2.5 per cent in March 1973. 
If honourable senators care to" look later on they will see that the index numbers shown in the table indicates clearly that the price differential for the wholesaler has not increased substantially over that period. It should also be noted that it cannot be said that the differential in January 1970 was relatively high because the profit rate at that time was 1 1 .9 per cent. However, it is quite clear to me from my deliberations that the retailers of ox/heifer have been able to increase their prices substantially. The percentage increase over the period was relatively steady and faster than the increase in prices. I remind honourable senators that the action taken by the Consumer Action Movement in Western Australia some time ago was taken because of its concern not only about ox, heifer and lamb meat but also about mutton. We staged a demonstration in the centre of the city of Perth and marched on the State Parliament House asking for a complete and comprehensive investigation in relation to the markups on all primary food products such as meat. We did this because of our concern that at that time the primary producer, who has to account for his labour and his risk in capital expenditure, was getting the least out of the consumer's dollar, and we were disturbed to find that at the time when consumers were paying for prime grade lamb meat at least 79c per lb the producer was receiving 23 per cent of that 79c. 
The situation over the last 4 years since that demonstration has not changed at all. The figures I shall cite now will show that whilst in my original notice of motion I wanted to ensure that any investigation would cover the wholesale area there was also an assumption on my part that it would be extended to cover the retail area, including such things as packaging, excessive packaging, advertising and excessive advertising. So we looked at a great number of areas. We tried to obtain figures, as I said earlier, and we found it was virtually impossible. As shown by the economic census of 1968-69, it is of interest to me that as at 30 June 1969 the 22 947 retail grocers and tobacconists had a gross profit margin of 16 per cent. For bread and cake shops, which numbered 2709, the gross margin was 41 per cent. The wholesale area shows a slightly different picture. My figures are also for 1968-69 because no further figures are available. The gross margin of profit for meat wholesalers was 9.6 per cent and for photographic equipment and supply wholesalers 31.1 per cent. The latter had the largest margin of gross profit. A lot of meat is being distributed through the supermarkets. I think we should be looking at the whole field of pricing by these price leaders to see why in some areas they can cut costs to a bare minimum and in others increase them to such an extent that frequently the price of a product could more than double by the time it reaches the consumer. 

 Mr Deputy President, as you would be aware, consumer organisations throughout Australia have been conducting surveys for a number of years. In 1972 the Consumer Action Movement in Western Australia conducted a survey of prices and price increases over a period of some 6 months. Honourable Senators would be aware that one of the least used but nevertheless essential products in their household is pepper. It was the only product out the 35 which we considered would be used in each household each week which did not increase in price over 6 months. It was interesting that a short time after the end of our survey it was reported in one of the national newspapers that it was expected that later that year there would be a world-wide shortage of white pepper. The price increased by 40 per cent within 7 days. 
The part that is played by the media is extremely important. Retail outlets, as do wholesale outlets, rely to a large extent on advertising. I am disturbed that a number of producers throughout Australia believe that they have to advertise to promote their goods when in actual fact they virtually control the whole of the market. I refer particularly to the producers of soap powders and breakfast cereals. I have a copy of a report which was brought down some time ago by the Prices Justification Tribunal. It is parliamentary paper No. 85 of 1974, a report by the Prices Justification Tribunal on the proposed increases by Kellogg (Aust.) Pty Ltd. I was rather interested in reading this report to see that the company itself claimed that it was in a high risk area. I was even more interested to note from the report that the Prices Justification Tribunal found that no risk was involved, saying that breakfast cereals are an accepted part of our daily menu. The report states: 
It is undeniable that the Company has incurred heavy and largely unavoidable additional costs, particularly in relation to raw materials and labour but it cannot be assumed that all these costs provide justification for price rises bearing in mind the overall situation we have been required to examine. 
The Company is a market leader in its field, has enjoyed many years of successful  opreration  in the face of competition and is likely to continue to do so. It is claimed by the Company that the industry is a 'risk 'one . . . However the Company was not able to put forward any substantial factor to demonstrate that there were any more risks than those encountered by the majority of trading companies in Australia. In fact there would appear to be less than usual risk of other companies coming into the market. Breakfast cereals are no longer 'on trial '-they are accepted as having a permanent place in the breakfast menu and there appears no likelihood of that situation changing. From time to time there may be consumer demand for new products and occasionally some of these products may not have outstanding success but, from the evidence, the Company's position has never been seriously impaired as a consequence. 
The report says that from time to time there may be consumer demand for new products, but I point out that if there is a demand for new products it is normally created by the company which is manufacturing the existing product. It advertises, for instance, through the mass media that it is now putting Fred Blogg's breakfast cereal and it creates what can be termed a false demand. Then Bill Smith and Joe Brown and even the children ask housewives to go to the local supermarket and obtain some of Fred Blogg's breakfast cereal. 
It is the company itself which is largely responsible for the creation of a false consumer demand. Through its advertising great expense is incurred. This advertising expenditure is a tax deduction and therefore is not chargeable to the company's account. I return to the report of the Prices Justification Tribunal. It states: 
We have considered the Company's overall position including, amongst other things, its capital structure, profitability, productivity, expected revenue gains and the possible effects of the increased costs directed to our attention and are of the opinion that the proposed weighted average increase in prices of 12.42 per cent is not justified. 
However we are of the opinion that a weighted average increase of 6.7 per cent is justified. 
One of the things that disturbs me is that in the information that was readily available to me through our services here at Parliament House I was not able to find out exactly how much profit had been sent by Kellogg (Aust) Pty Ltd to its parent company in the United States of America, nor could I find out whether that profit had been taken into consideration when the determination of the Prices Justification Tribunal was brought down. 
We have only to look at the newspaper reports over the last few days to see what is happening with price increases in Australia. I am interested specifically in one from the  Daily Telegraph  of Wednesday, 7 April. An article by David Hurley under the headline 'Willis move to cut price of bread 'states: 
The State Government - 
This is the New South Wales State Government-  would act to reduce the price of New South Wales bread by up to 3c a loaf immediately after the May 1 election, the Premier,  Sir Eric  Willis, said yesterday. 
My concern is that the Premier of any State can forecast that he is able to reduce to that extent the price of a loaf of bread, but not until after an election is held. I believe that this statement has been put out as a vote catcher. People will have to look at what he has had to say and determine for themselves whether he can do this. Perhaps that may influence them in their voting patterns on 1 May. The Premier is also reported to have said:   . . The Government would legislate to control unions that prevented retail  discounting  in the bread industry. 
He said the Government would also prohibit credits on unsold bread. 
As a former member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices, I can assure you,  Mr President,  from information that we have received through that Committee at its public hearings in Melbourne and Sydney that it would be basically impossible to prohibit credits on unsold bread. It is a relatively simple operation for bread manufacturers not to note anywhere what credits are being paid to retailers for unsold bread. It is my personal opinion that manufacturers, particularly in the bread industry, will continue to increase their prices until such time as it is necessary for a government, either State or Federal, to institute price controls on the particular commodity concerned. Manufacturers will continue to over-produce. On the figures that were given to me- I must admit that I am speaking from memory- there was 20 per cent over-production by the leading bakery in Melbourne which controlled something like 40 per cent of the market. But the manufacturer, knowing that he had 40 per cent of the market in the metropolitan area, could over-produce. This enabled him to ensure that in actual fact all bread returns were credited. I do not know whether this was done in cash or by the supply of further loaves of bread. But at least he was able to determine for himself that he would continue crediting for unsold bread. 
This raises a very important question in regard to what happens to unsold bread. There was an experiment in Victoria at one stage to sell dayold and 2-day-old bread at a reduced price. However, it was carried out through only one rather small and limited retail outlet area. I do not know whether that experiment is continuing or whether it has been successful. But I concern myself particularly with reports that it is possible to buy a wheat bag full of day old bread for $1 direct from the bakery. This bag would contain 30 to 40 loaves of bread. If it is not taken by people who know of its availability, I understand that it is sold to pig farmers for something like 2c a loaf. If in actual fact one day old bread can be sold to anyone, whether that person be a primary producer looking for feed for animals or a consumer who wishes to buy bread at a lesser price but still through the normal retail outlets and it can be established that there is over production, there should be automatically a decrease in the over-production and a decrease in the price of bread to the consumer. This is because it takes fewer people and facilities to transport a smaller number of goods to the same number of retail outlets as it takes to transport enormous amounts of bread that presently not only have to be delivered but also have to be collected for return. 
I am also disturbed by an article that appeared in yesterday 's  West Australian  newspaper. It was delivered to my desk only today. The report appeared on the front page of the newspaper and is entitled, 'Western Australian apples go on the dump'. There is a picture of a large number of apples being dumped at the Kalamunda tip. The article states: 
Apple growers in Western Australia are dumping surplus apples. 
Sub-standard apples are being burnt at a Kalamunda rubbish dump and  being  fed to cattle in the south-west. 
It is thought that 7S0 000 boxes may be destroyed this season. 
The apples dumped at Kalamunda were discarded because blemishes and other faults made them unacceptable for export. 
In Western Australia quite recently I paid 39c a lb for apples. I would buy only 1 lb of apples at that price. I would have preferred to be able to say that I bought 2 lb at a lower price. Until we can get some preferential marketing system for our primary products inside Australia- that is, on the domestic market- we will not be able to reduce the cost of primary products to the domestic or the export markets. I am concerned that the article goes on to state: 
The Agriculture Department has told growers that granny smith production should be cut by at least a third. Granny smiths represent 78 per cent of Western Australia's apple production and 95 per cent of its exports. 
We concern ourselves very greatly with the export of our primary products. Yet, when the previous Government introduced the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill into the Senate it was defeated. I thought that that legislation would have provided an ideal vehicle to establish an efficient marketing program for all types of primary and secondary industries. I thought, for instance, that this was the area that could have been utilised in the sale of meat, fruit and vegetables to other countries. I thought that it would have combined all forms of marketing into an expertise area in which there would not be the division that we have at this present time when we have the farmers acting as individuals and the organisations they belong to also acting as individuals. Some of their marketing procedures seem to be most inefficient and do not do anything either for the price of those articles on the domestic market or to make sure that we have a comprehensive export market to which we can send our goods. 
On the other side of the coin, there is an article which appears in  The Age  of Tuesday, 6 April 1976. It is written by  Mr John  Holland, the primary industries reporter and relates to the fact that Victorian and Tasmanian dairy farmers suffered another setback when the price of Australian skim milk powder on the export market was slashed by nearly a third. The point I am trying to make is that whilst we are concerned about the slashing of the price of any Australian primary product on the export market, we have to be concerned also about whether we are overproducing or whether we are pricing the goods out of the domestic market pocket. We have to be concerned, for example, about whether the production of skim milk power or milk products could be increased if the prices of these products were reduced and whether the - increased turnover would compensate the dairy farmers to a large extent for their efforts. The newspaper article to which I have referred states: 
Although the international price has dropped, it is not expected to make any difference to Australia 's huge stockpile of more than 90 000 tonnes of powder. 
I remember a number of years ago that there was a great campaign in all States because of an overproduction of eggs. I was concerned at that time because approximately 400 000 dozen eggs were in cold storage in Japan. Those eggs had been trans-shipped to Japan and the transport cost had been met by taking a little from the domestic market retail price and a little from the domestic market producer price and by instituting a levy which covered the cost of the transportation of the eggs. The eggs were held in cold storage in Japan until such time as the Japanese decided whether they wanted to buy them. We were told subsequently- I do not know whether the claim was valid- that the Japanese had agreed to a price of 10c a dozen. 
Eggs are an extremely important factor in our diet. They provide our children especially with a great deal of the necessary proteins and nutrients. But priced as they are on the domestic market at this time, it is impossible for a person in receipt of an average weekly wage of, say, $70 with a family of perhaps 4 children to be able to afford to provide the children with one egg a day, plus the eggs that are used in cooking. If we take those figures into account, such a family would be paying in the vicinity of $3 a week for eggs alone.  Mr President,  you will appreciate that that is not possible for a large number of people who find themselves in that situation. 
The same applies with milk. I believe that the domestic consumption of milk could be greatly increased if the price of milk were reduced to such an extent that it was available to all people in greater quantities. We seem to be concerned so much with the value of our export markets that we lose sight of our domestic markets. We have done that with meat, eggs and just about every commodity that we produce. Great stockpiles of most of those commodities are either hanging around somewhere in Australia or in other countries. It must be of concern that the storage of these commodities and the expected or anticipated export price are keeping prices on the domestic market so high. 
We can look particularly to the primary industries. I think members on this side of the House as well as on the Government side would agree with me that there is a great deal of need to ensure that our farming communities become viable and that in actual fact their marketing procedures make them more efficient than they are at present. One of the biggest problems in the farming community is that everybody has to be an individualist. There is no such thing as collective thought unless farmers go along to a farmers' union meeting or a pastoralists' and graziers' meeting where perhaps they will agree for a short time. 
One of my concerns when I gave notice of this motion was the disbanding of the former Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices. I am concerned also with newspaper reports which indicate- in actual fact some reporters have said this-that because of the non-continuation of that Committee prices are rapidly increasing outside the area of prices controlled by the Prices Justification Tribunal area. As a result I think both Government and Opposition have to look now at the role of the Prices Justification Tribunal, not as to whether it should be in existence but whether in actual fact we should give it sufficient powers to make it a worthwhile institution in the area for which it was set up in the first place. 
The Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices conducted a number of inquiries. Members will be aware of such inquiries. They will recall the report on prices which was presented in 1973, the report on the prices of household soaps and detergents and the report on the practice of retailers repricing existing stock. It is my feeling that all of these reports and the inquiries themselves were comprehensive. They engendered a great deal of interest in the domestic community as well as in the manufacturing community. Submissions were received from people in all walks of life at each and every one of those parliamentary hearings. 
It is of concern that the present Government has seen fit not to reconvene that Committee. 1 think it is rather a strange determination for the Government to make when in actual fact its policy, it says, is to look very closely at what is happening to prices, price controls and wages. The previous Government produced, under the auspices of the responsible Minister, the National Shopping Basket Survey which was conducted on 16-17 October 1975 in all States. There were 37 grocery items priced in 10 supermarkets in each of the 6 State capital cities. The pilot survey was carried out to determine which brands and sizes of commodities were most available in all cities. I am concerned at the wide variety of price ranges that operate even between supermarkets under the same name. The survey shows that Coles New World and K'Mart stores have completely different prices on most of the commodities depending entirely on the area. The price of goods depended on whether the store was considered to be in a low income area, a middle income area or a high income area. I think the National Shopping Basket Survey was a most comprehensive guide to the ordinary consumer, normally the woman of the house who does the shopping each week or to some men of the house who like to keep their hand in and keep their eye on prices too. It was quite a comprehensive survey. 
I would like to think that this type of survey could be continued by the present Government. But as consumer affairs and business are now coupled under the one portfolio- I fail to see that these are compatible bedmates anyway- I doubt very much that consideration would be given to its continuation. I suggest to the Minister that it would be well worth while and would at least avail people throughout Australia of the statistics that are available in that Shopping Basket Survey. The 37 items used in the survey were collated with the assistance of most consumer organisations throughout Australia, and they had some part in compiling the survey itself. I suggest that this is a well worthwhile area and one into which inquiries should be continued. 
As I said when I commenced my speech this afternoon, it is always difficult to establish that the statistics one is giving are comprehensive. In my instance they are neither comprehensive nor even up to date. The figures I have given in regard to retail establishments in the wholesale areas go back to 1968-69. They are the latest figures available. The other statistics range from January 1970 to December 1973. 1 seek leave to have both sets of statistics incorporated into  Hansard. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Have any actions been taken by the Trade Practices Commission under section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974; if so, will the Attorney-General detail the outcome of such actions. 
How many complaints have been received by the Trade Practices Commission and what is the nature of the complaints received by the Commission in Western Australia. 
Is a legal officer attached to the Commission in Western Australia or does the Commission act on advice from the Crown Law Department in that State. 
Have there been any prosecutions under the Trade Practices Act in Western Australia. 
If the answer to (4) is in the negative, or there have only been few prosecutions, has the Crown Law Department advised the Commission not to prosecute unless it can be assured of winning a case. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Who are the members of the Income Security Review Committee. 
I present 2 petitions, identical in wording, from 700 and 1 60 citizens of Australia, respectively, as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I preface it by stating that concern is being expressed throughout Australia at the curtailment of funds given to sporting bodies. My personal concern at the moment is for the surf life saving clubs which operate on our coastline and whose members contribute their time and expertise to the safety of all people who use our beaches. These clubs existed by way of an occasional State grant, private donations and private fund raising until the advent of the Labor Government, when substantial grants were made available. In view of the role which these clubs play in making our beaches safe and the desperate financial situation in which some now find themselves, will the Government give consideration to reviewing this area of funding or at least to guaranteeing a sympathetic hearing of representations from these bodies in an endeavour to ensure that all clubs receive assistance in obtaining essential equipment? I also make the point that this matter should be regarded as urgent if all clubs are to be catered for adequately before the advent of next summer. 
I present 2 petitions, identical in wording, from 418 and 348 citizens of Australia, respectively, as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
I  present 4 petitions from 137, 256, 19, and 213 citizens of Australia respectively as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well being of a great proportion of the Australian people, both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
I present 2 petitions from 603 and 180 citizens of Australia respectively as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I was very interested in a number of the remarks made by  Senator Baume  in his speech on the Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. One of the things that  Senator Baume  said was that the Government will be giving the money to women and that this will liberate women more than the provisions of any other legislation. I put it to  Senator Baume  that it will not liberate women any more if some of the other essential social services in actual fact are taken away from them. Unfortunately, this is one of the things that the Government has also done.  Senator Baume  also said that running a house is productive in economic terms and that women who run houses are discriminated against in the taxation sense. Let me assure Sentor Baume that whether a woman stays at home or goes out to work, she is still discriminated against under the existing taxation system, as I have just found out. The Taxation Commissioner has just deemed it necessary to make me pay a sum of money because I intend going out to work- because I joined the work force to do a job that I felt was a necessary one. It is a job that I considered I could do reasonably well. He has deemed that I cannot claim a housekeeper's allowance. I can only presume that unless in some way the Government will provide me with child care services, which would include facilities to enable a housekeeper to live in, I will still be penalised under the existing Income Tax Assessment Act. 
Quite frankly, I have no quarrel with the Bill as it is presented to the Senate. But I do question whether in actual fact it will provide an advantage to the great mass of Australian people whom  Senator Baume  sees it assisting. Because that question is raised in my mind I must ask whether in actual fact it is not a sop to some of the people in the hope that they will not ask for the things that I believe are their rights in the other areas of social services. I question how many people will be advantaged now that child rebates have been withdrawn from income tax. I have looked through this extremely complex document entitled: 'Indexation, Child Rebate and Child Endowment Changes 1976-77 Rates 
Compared with 1975-76'. I must admit to being more confused having read the paper than before I started reading it. I understood that the Bill, as described by  Senator Baume,  was designed to put more money into the pockets of the people on low incomes. I do not find that in this document. 
-I point out to  Senator Walters,  if she will give me a chance, that the benefit depends entirely on what is determined as a low income family. As I understand it, the national average of children in a family is 2.7 children. I can never understand how a family can have seven-tenths of a child; so I will take the case of a taxpayer with a dependent wife and 2 children. I am citing these figures from a document which has been issued. If such a taxpayer has a weekly income of $80 a week, which is a low income, the net gain from tax and child endowment changes will be $7. If the weekly income is $ 100, which is still in this day and age a low income, the benefit is reduced to $4.39. But if the taxpayer happens to be earning $400 a week and has the same dependent wife and 2 children, he will gain $10.95. That is not putting the benefit into the pockets of the low income families. That disturbs me more than a little because I expected something more out of this Bill. 
This is the tax indexation and child endowment. It is included in the one document. 
-What about supporting fathers? Are they going to be ignored for the rest of time? In any event, they are not taken into consideration in this Bill. We have had the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  say that in actual fact when a father was supporting children and established that this was the case, he would receive child endowment. I am talking about single fathers who are on low incomes and who will not benefit if they are in receipt of an income of $100 a week. If a single father has 2 dependent children he will not benefit by the same amount as a person who is on a higher income with 2 dependent children; nor will he benefit as much as a person on a lower income with 2 dependant children. 
As I said, this seems to be an extremely complex document. It certainly does not give the assistance to the low income families that I hoped it would. I do not know how much detail has been used in compiling the figures and I will not endeavour to prove that they are wrong. I am just saying that I am confused by the figures. I doubt very much that I will be the only person in Australia who will probably remain confused until after I have completed my next tax return. Then I hope I will be able to assess whether in actual fact I have been advantaged or disadvantaged by the provisions of this Bill 
I am querying whether the additional cash that will go into the pockets of the Australian people will compensate parents for the myriad other actions which the Government proposes to take. Will it, for instance, compensate the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory who, I understand, are now to be deprived of approximately $200,000 which was originally provided to cover infant food supplements? I do not think quite frankly that an additional $3 a week will compensate an Aboriginal parent if he or she despairs at their children's health as it deteriorates. I do not think, for instance, that the Aboriginal children who are already suffering because of the previous decision to cut back on the meal program will feel that they are being adequately compensated by getting another $3 in their pockets each week. I do not believe that a Bill such as this has any substance at all if at the same time other social welfare programs are either discarded or cut to shreds. 
I think the Government has put forward this Bill in the hope that the people will believe that they are really gaining something from it. I think the Government also hopes that the people will not know that in actual fact they will not be advantaged to any great extent. The statement by  Mr Lynch  that the new arrangements will be of particular benefit to Aboriginal families and his documentary evidence in his fiscal policy on last Thursday week that there are drastic cuts in Aboriginal programs do not match up. That is cause for concern. If there is an indication that the benefits for Aboriginal families under this Government are to be better than they were before- and this is one of those programs- quite frankly I do not want to see any of the disadvantages which may still be up the Treasurer's sleeve. 
There are other considerations which need to be taken into account when discussing this Bill. For instance, the grants scheme for low cost accommodation has now been terminated. Will this Bill with its provision of $3 a week compensate a person who is not able to afford his own home? Of course it will not. Members on this side of the Senate and those on the Government side know that it will not. I mention next those people who will feel the effect of the $ 15m cut to child care, the arts and other programs administered by the Prime Minister and Cabinet. Will those people who are affected by this section feel that they are adequately compensated by the increases provided in this Bill? I do not believe that they will. 
The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  and the States are now looking at the legal aid program and the possibility of its being phased down. Will the people who nave a need for this service feel that they have been adequately compensated by this Bill? I believe that the Government has determined that the unemployed and those who receive sickness benefits, widows pensions and supporting mothers benefits are to be taxed. Does the Government really think that the provisions of this Bill will compensate them? As I said before, I believe that this Bill is a sop and a pretence. It is pretending to people that they will actually gain by a single stroke of the pen when what is really happening is that other pens are striking out social welfare programs which would have benefited many more of the people of Australia. 
I would be interested to know how the Government sees this Bill as a compensation for the new young family in the outer suburbia which spring up outside every major capital city in Australia. Such young families already feel that they are disadvantaged. They are now to be further disadvantaged and deprived of so many essential services. I refer to the cutback in roads, in child care centres, in kindargartens and all of those amentities which are now being discontinued under this Government's plan. For the information of the Government, I classify 'essentials' as made roads, sewerage, transport, communicationsall of those facilities which are extremely difficult for young people in new suburbs to find. I should mention also the feeling of being part of a community and not being isolated. I do not believe that there is any way in which this Bill will compensate those people. 
I do not accept that the people in the areas that I have covered- and there are many more that I have not mentioned- will feel that they are receiving something from the Government because they have extra cash in their pockets when other social welfare benefits are being taken away from them. I believe that this Government has the idea in the back of its mind that it must create an independence among Australians and make them stand on their own 2 feet. That would be a very good plan but I do not think that Australia is ready for it. I do not accept that the Australian people are ready for such a plan. I know an awful lot of people who are dependent on governments to provide them with the necessary social services and social benefits to which they have a right and entitlement. 
I wish to touch on a number of queries that have been raised in this chamber in the last few days. One concerns a question asked by  Senator Devitt  on 1 June and a reply on the same day by the Minister,  Senator Guilfoyle.  It relates to children under school leaving age. I refer to the case where a girl under the age of sixteen becomes pregnant. The mother of that girl will be receiving $3.50 a week in respect of her. But the girl is entitled to a special benefit of $10 a week. I ask whether this will mean that the girl will receive only $6.50 a week? That is what I understand the answer from the Minister to mean. How does the Minister honestly believe that this young woman who is about to give birth will cater adequately for the needs of her baby under those circumstances? Does the Minister believe that the payment of $3.50 a week to the mother of the mother-to-be will compensate her for what she will need to provide for the coming child? I think a great deal remains to be desired in this Bill, certainly a great deal more than it provides. 
As I said earlier when touching on this matter very briefly, nothing has been done for single or supporting fathers except that now the Minister has said that payments will be made directly to them if they can establish that they are supporting a child or children. I am concerned that this Government or any previous government has not done anything to enable a deserted husband, or the father of dependent children, to be able to cope more adequately with a situation that leaves a lot to be desired. I know of a case where a relatively young man, an unskilled labourer on approximately $100 a week clear, has been left with 3 children, two under school age. He is now seriously contemplating leaving his position and becoming unemployed so that he can afford to stay at home and look after his children. He may not be able to afford to eat, but he will be able to afford to stay home and look after his children. There is nothing in any of the Bills which have come before the Senate from this Government which has made provision for a man in such a position to be able to employ a housekeeper and to pay a housekeeper to live in and to look after his children. I would like to think that the Government will take that aspect into consideration in future determinations as to what can be done to assist in the community. 
We heard from  Senator Baume  that Professor Henderson's report covered tremendous areas; and it did. All of the reports which have come down on related matters have covered wide ranging areas. One of the recommendations, of course, was that there be an increase in child endowment. But nowhere in those reports is there any mention of a decrease in relation to the essential social services that should be made available to people who are not in a financial position- some of them are not even in a physical or mental condition- to be able to provide those things for their families and themselves. I believe that the Government should pay less attention to reducing the deficit, less attention to the magic dollar and more attention to people's needs. I anticipate that later on, in the Budget session, we will have an opportunity to gauge whether in actual fact this Government has the feelings of the people at heart or whether it is just going to continue to hand out little bits and pieces in the hope that people will not notice that the very large programs are being cut away from under their feet. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many staff have been transferred, or are to be transferred, from the Department of Social Security to the Department of Health as a result of the changes undertaken since December 1975. 
2 ) What were the levels of the staff transferred. 
Will the Minister provide the figures on a State by State basis. 
How many of these staff, dissected by their levels, and staff at central office were employed in the subsidised health benefits plan administering the $2 and $5 payments under the National Health Act. 
Will any of the staff referred to be retrenched as a result of the amendments to the Act. 
I  present 2 petitions, identical in wording, from 206 and 1036 citizens of Australia respectively, as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition ofthe undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organisations thoughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well being of a great proportion of the Australian people, both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organisations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and relates to the new arrangements whereby an office of child care has been substituted for the Interim Committee of the Children's Commission. I ask the Minister whether this office will administer and fund only child care or whether it will also comprehend, as did the Interim Committee, other children's services such as toy libraries, services for handicapped children, pre-school centres and activities centres for before and after school. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and relates to the additional charges for priority paid mail, particularly priority paid mail to members of Parliament while they are in Canberra. Is the Minister aware that if an article is sent priority paid it is supposed to be delivered as soon as practicable after arrival? That is not quite the case here in Parliament House. An article could arrive in Canberra by 9.30 in the morning and sit at the Canberra Post Office until the mail is collected again at 2 o'clock. As additional charges have been paid, and as that service would have been made available normally by ordinary air mail, will the Minister examine the situation and see whether priority paid mail could be hand delivered by the post office in Canberra? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Have any actions been taken by the Trade Practices Commission under section 50 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 in (a) Victoria, (b) South Australia, (c) Tasmania, (d) Queensland, (e) New South Wales and (f) the Australian Capital Territory; if so, what were the outcome of such actions. 
How many complaints have been received by the Commission in each of these States and the Territory. 
Will the Minister provide a breakdown of complaints received by the Commission in each area. 
Is a legal officer attached to the Commission in each area. 
Have there been any prosecutions under the Trade Practices Act in each of these States and the Territory; if so, what was the nature of, and outcome of, such prosecutions. 
I present the following petition from 985 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Family Planning Association and similar organizations throughout Australia contribute to the welfare and well-being of a great proportion of the Australian people both in family planning and in an advisory capacity on the prevention and control of social diseases. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that urgent consideration be given to a favourable decision on the continuation of Federal Government finance to enable the activities of the Family Planning Associations and like organizations to proceed unimpaired throughout Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 27 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we deplore the confusion generated by the Government's proposals to radically modify the system of health insurance in Australia; 
That we believe the changes will destroy the concept . of universality previously incorporated in Medibank; 
That the Government's actions will lead to a two-class system of health care and thereby creating a division in Australian society; 
That the unnecessary duplication of health insurance funds created by Medibank and private organisations both operating will lead to gross administrative inefficiency, waste and increased costs. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government retain at least the original Medibank scheme. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Administrative Services by commenting that the recent disbanding of the Australian Information Service which was formerly attached to the Australian Government Publishing Service has put tremendous pressure on the remaining staff at the AGPS, particularly the branch operating in Perth. Will the Minister say whether it is the intention of this Government to keep the Australian people in a state of ignorance? Is there an even more sinister reason or will the Government give serious consideration to the restoration of that essential service to the Australian people? 
The people of Australia may be unaware that tonight the Senate is debating the Budget brought down by the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  in the other place last Tuesday. The ramifications of that Budget for the people of Australia are tremendous. It is unfortunate that this part of the debate is taking place on a day on which the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast. As will be known, we are restricted to making speeches of 30 minutes duration on such days, and there are many things to be said about the Budget, none of which could be covered adequately in 30 minutes. I will endeavour to enlighten a few of the Government senators who are present about the possible ramifications of the Budget in the areas of Aboriginal welfare, housing, education and employment. I found it most interesting that today of all days the  Financial Review,  one of the few reputable newspapers left in Australia, decided that it was time it brought down a report on the Hay report. An interesting comment made on page 10 of the Financial Review is as follows: 

 Mr David Hay was appointed to review the delivery of services financed by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs last February, and his report was received by the Government early in June. 
One reason the report has not been released is thought to be that it does not provide the damning indictment of Aboriginal Affairs administration as some members of the Government had anticipated. 
There is no way- 
I did not miss out a paragraph. 
I will oblige the honourable senator. The next paragraph states: 
Somewhat taken aback by the severity of the reaction to the $33m Budget cuts the Minister,  Mr Viner,  said some additional funds might be provided following the current review. 
Even  Mr Viner,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, is disgusted at the expenditure cuts, amounting to $33m, in the area of Aboriginal welfare. We all know, although the people who are listening to the debate tonight may not know, of the infamous telegram sent on 26 November 1975 and signed by the then Liberal and National Country Party spokesman on Aboriginal affairs,  Mr Bob  Ellicott, who is now the Attorney-General. Probably he now divorces himself completely from what he enunciated at that time. I will read the contents of the telegram into the record. It has been read in the other place and I will read it here. It states: 

 Mr Bob Ellicott Liberal and Country Party spokesman for Aboriginal affairs said today there would be no cuts in Aboriginal affairs Budget or in Aboriginal affairs programs. Funds will continue to be made available for housing, education, employment, health, legal aid etc. 
I hope he does, and I hope it gives him the heartburn he deserves. The telegram continues: 
Pensions payable to Aboriginal people will not be cut and will rise automatically twice a year with cost of living increases. 
Of course, the fact that they will get the rise 6 months late is irrelevant. The telegram continues. 
All available funds will be shared among Aboriginal communities on a fair and impartial basis. A Liberal National Country Party Government will support Aboriginal organisations such as the Aborigine Medical and Legal Services. It will hold an urgent inquiry into the role of the NACC to determine whether it can be given a more important role in Aboriginal affairs. Efforts will be made to increase the number of Aboriginal people involved in Aboriginal affairs. Employment and training schemes will be urgently investigated with aim of increasing job opportunities for Aborigines throughout Australia. Spread the word - it is like spreading the gospel- that there is absolutely no truth in Labor Party rumours about cuts in Aboriginal affairs Budget. Under a Liberal Country Party Government Aborigines will be better not worse off. Urge Aborigines to vote Liberal Country Party on 13 December. Full policy is following by mail. Best wishes. 
Bob Ellicott 
That is really good! I repeat that the telegram states: 
Spread the word that there is absolutely no truth in Labor Party rumours about cuts in Aboriginal affairs Budget. 
Those rumours, which were not started by the Labor Party, now are coming home like chickens to roost for the Liberal-National Country Party coalition Government. 
-In this Budget the Government has already cut $33m off the Aboriginal affairs program. I say to honourable senators opposite: Never mind about appropriations made at the beginning of the year or the little mini-Budget that was presented earlier this year. When we were children we called promises such as those contained in that telegram Indian promises. It meant that one could promise anything and everything and then renege. That is what this Government has done. It has reneged on its promises to the people of Australia. The fact that these people are Aborigines is irrelevant and immaterial. They just happen to have a different coloured skin. Because they have always been underprivileged under Liberal-National Country Party coalition governments in the past, this Government will continue to keep them in that state. 

 Mr Viner agreed, in an interview he gave in August to the  Age  newspaper, that the Government had broken its pre-election promises. He said that the Government in fact had said that there would be no cuts in Aboriginal spending and unfortunately there had to be cuts in the mini-Budget brought down earlier. I doubt whether he knew at that time that there would be even further expenditure cuts. The Trade Practices Act states specifically that no person or company shall misrepresent the goods or services it has to offer. I submit that that provision should be extended to state that no potential government shall misrepresent the goods or services it has to offer. This is exactly what has happened. This Government, deliberately and knowingly, misrepresented the goods and services it was offering to the Australian people. This Government has made no attempt to deliver the goods and services it promised. I submit that the Government should be liable to prosecution under the Trade Practices Act for giving false and misleading information about its intentions. Instead of there being no cuts in the Aboriginal affairs program, as stated in the telegram, we now see cuts amounting to $33m. That is not chickenfeed. 
-Is it? That is even worse. That cut concerns the health, education, welfare and employment of people. The fact is that people, whether they be Aborigines or other people, are entitled to the protection of the Government as all Australian people are entitled to it. I submit that in this instance they are entitled to protection against the Government because it is the Government that has acted against the people. 
There is one other issue upon which  Mr Viner  did not quite see things the way the Treasurer saw them. Even before the ink was dry on the Budget Papers, he was saying that he would get more money if it was needed for Aboriginal affairs. The Minister did not really say where it would come from or where he would get it; he just said that he would get it. In fact, this is the way his statement was reported in the  Canberra Times  last Wednesday: 
The Government will allocate more money for Aboriginal affairs after a review of Aboriginal housing and other programs has been completed. 
The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner,  said today that no Aboriginal would lose his job because of the cut-back in Government spending which was announced in last night's Budget. He defended the $33m reduction and said that the Government was determined to end indiscriminate spending and to see that Aboriginal affairs programs operated efficiently and effectively. 
I am sure that all those Aborigines who are deprived of satisfactory health care, welfare benefits, education and housing while the Government determines the 'indiscriminate spending' will be eternally grateful.  Senator Chaney  provided part of the answer for us this morning when he asked a Dorothy Dix question of the Minister representing the Treasurer in the Senate,  Senator Cotton.  He asked where this money for Aboriginal affairs would come from. We all know now that it will come from the Advance to the Treasurer or from Appropriation Act (No. 3). I think I am quoting the Minister correctly. He said:   . . when the government has determined the appropriate level of finance required. 
Let us look at specifics. 
Because he said it in the House this morning. If the honourable senator had been here at question time he would have heard the reply. 
I suggest the honourable senator should suggest to  Senator Chaney  that he does not put up Dorothy Dixers that already have been replied to by other Ministers. If the honourable senator checks today's  Hansard  he will find that that is what the Minister said. 
I wish to look at specifics. I have my eye on the clock. I intend dealing firstly with Aboriginal housing and then, if time permits, I will go on to talk about one or two other important Aboriginal issues. I think it is fairly important, in view of what  Senator Martin  had to say a while ago, to deal with my own State of Western Australia. I shall quote a good example of what a State government can do to help bring down a wellintentioned Federal government if it is of a different political colour. That is what happened. One of the big problems of government appears to me to be that while the Federal Government makes all its nice funds available for specific purposes to State governments there is no way that it can make those State governments fully utilise the grants that are given to them. That is just what happened in 'The State on the Move'- that is Western Australia for those ignorant honourable senators who are not aware of the slogan of the State Liberal-Country Party coalition. We are moving all right; we are going out the back door. But what can be expected from a State government which has its own natural disaster in the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, who has already increased charges for public utilities. He even took on the parents of the profoundly mentally retarded children of the Tressillian Hostel not so long ago and threatened to return the children to their homes if their parents did not agree to their being at the Hostel. Then he took away the free travel rights that were available to pensioners. 
-This is  Sir Charles  Court. The honourable senator will remember that last year a cyclone came down the west coast. It took fright when it knew Charlie Court was in Perth. It would not even go near there. 
-That is the same bloke. That is what happened in 'The State on the Move', Western Australia- this beautiful State of ours. It is a beautiful State. We have beautiful people. We have beautiful Aboriginal people in Western Australia living in poverty, in squalor. Other States have this problem too; perhaps it is more noticeable in Western Australia because I think there are more Aborigines. In actual fact a total amount of $4m allocated for Aboriginal housing in Western Australia was never taken up by the State Government.  Senator Martin  spoke about the problems of unemployment, the credit facilities for small businesses and the way that small businesses had ceased trading. The amount of $4m would provide a lot of people with housing. It would provide a number of people with employment. It would also create a demand for goods and services especially from those industries that were suffering from distinct financial problems. If this were to happen it would present a much brighter economic picture for Western Australia. 
Western Australia did not use the sum of $4m that was allocated. In fact over a number of years the State has just been taking up the surplus from the year before. It is using the carry over figure. The State Government, having already received in, 1973-74 an appropriation of $4m and in 1974-75 an appropriation of $4.556m, allowedindeed it permitted and wanted- industries to run down. It allowed unemployment to rise. It allowed people to live in poverty. It denied the Aboriginal people the right to adequate housing. It did not want to improve the unemployment figures. It did not want to create a demand for goods and services. It was quite happy to sacrifice a few of the smaller industries. It certainly did not want to assist people urgently needing housing. It deliberately and knowingly created a situation which could and subsequently did assist in bringing down a properly elected government- a government elected twice in 3 years by the people of Australia- just because that government was of a different political colour. 
When one goes through the estimates of expenditure sometimes one comes across a number of items which may not appear at the time when they are presented to be tremendously important, but they turn out to be most important later. This is just what happened when I was going through the papers to get figures for the debate tonight. The quotation I intend making I think is worth putting on record. It is contained on page 53 of the estimates of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs for 1974-75 and relates to item 0 1 of division 806- Payments to or for the States. The item is devoted to housing. It dissects the 6 States and gives the appropriations not only for 1974-75 but also for 1973-74. 
No. Labor went out of power in March 1 974. The honourable senator can cook his books from then on. Let us have a look at what happened in 1973-74 in Western Australia. In that year $4m was allocated for housing. In 1974-75 the figure was $4.556m. 
-Please let me finish,  Senator Missen.  The honourable senator could even laugh at this. I doubt that he will because it is not funny for the people who are affected. The explanatory note at the bottom of the page states: 
In 1 973-74 an attempt was made to reduce the Aboriginal housing shortage by channelling increased funds into State housing programs. Due to many factors, such as shortage of materials, labour - 
I pause there.  Senator Martin  spoke earlier tonight and gave us a comprehensive list of the figures on unemployment in 1974. According to these explanatory notes there was a shortage of labour at that time especially in Western Australia 'The State on the Move'. The explanatory notes continue: 
. and suitable land    
Western Austrafia takes up one-third of the entire continent and yet we could not find suitable land on which to spend $4.556m for Aboriginal housing. The notes then state: 
. the housing efforts of the States failed to achieve the targets set with the result that some funds remained unspent at 30 June 1974. 
That is a very true statement. The State did in actual fact have some funds unspent at 30 June 1974. It had roughly $2.5m unspent at 30 June 1 974- a time when the number of registered unemployed in the building industry was already one and a half times the number of vacancies being notified. Let us relate the figure as at June 1976, to which  Senator Martin  referred, to the building and construction industry. In Western Australia there were 667 registered unemployed compared with 1 80 vacancies- about three and a half to one. In the last 2 months- the figures were obtained for me today- the position has deteriorated to such an extent that there are approximately 6 registered unemployed in the construction industry alone in Western Australia to every vacancy. I continue with the quotation: 
However, with the present difficulties being experienced in the building industry- 
This is interesting. By now I assume that the Department has come to the conclusion that there was an imbalance between the number of unemployed and the number of vacancies. The notes continue: 
. and the development of some excess capacity- 
I have already explained that the 'excess capacity' referred to the sum of about $2.5m which was held over from the year before. The notes then state:  the States are optimistic that a higher level of activity will be attained this fiscal year. 
We have a situation where a department tells the Government that it can anticipate a much greater amount of money being spent on Aboriginal housing in the period July 1974 to June 1975. What actually happened? There was no increase in the construction of Aboriginal housing in Western Australia in 1974-75. Not lc of the $4.556m allocated by the Federal Government was taken up. In fact it has now been returned to the Treasury. You will recall that earlier this year the Government said that from some of the departments it had been able to get some appropriations. While all this is going on, or not going on depending on one's viewpoint, what is happening to those people who are dependent on those grants for accommodation, people such as Aborigines? There are some who are camped on the banks of the Swan River a few miles out of Perth. Sometimes they can manage to find even a piece of corrugated iron to put up against a tree to give them some shelter. Other accommodation is described in an article by Jim Magnus in the  Daily News  of 1 1 August, the week before last, I remind honourable senators, and one week before the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  brought down his infamous Budget. The article is headed Aborigines ' Shelters Being 'Destroyed '. I do not intend to read it all because it would take too much time and I have to keep my eye on the clock, but I want to read a part of it to make sure that honourable senators opposite who have never known poverty and try not to recognise it when they see it - 
-Thank you,  Senator Keeffe.  I intend to read part of it to give an indication of what the Government of Western Australia has not done in the area of housing for Aborigines. An article in the  Daily News  of Wednesday 1 1 August states: 
Allegations were made today that shelters in East Perth were deliberately being destroyed in an apparent attempt to get rid of homeless Aborigines.  Mrs Betsie  Buchanan, an official of the Campaign Against Racial Exploitation, said Aborigines were being forced to sleep out in the rain. 
They are forced to sleep and live in the sun without any shelter at all so I do not suppose it matters much if they are forced to sleep in the rain as well. The article continues: 
She said some had complained that bulldozing of their camping spots had been accompanied by increased attention from the police. 
I want honourable senators to listen to the types of accommodation that are being bulldozed. The article continues: 

 Mrs Buchanan said a clump of trees in what the Aborigines call 'The Flats' near the Jewell Street Bridge had been a popular sleeping spot. But bulldozers moved in there soon after the destruction of Millars Cave . . . 
The article also states: 
Off Lord Street, there had been a shelter for 20 people or so, which Aborigines had made by spreading sheet iron between 2 brick walls. 
The structure- in the old Millars woodyard and known by the Aborigines as 'Millars Cave', had been bulldozed down a month or two ago, she said. 
The former occupants then started to sleep on the corner of Short Street under a group of hoardings which they called The Iron Curtain'. 
Police moved them on about 2 weeks ago. One man said he had been warned: 'You had better move on or you will get 3 months'. 
I would suggest that there would be a number of Aborigines who would be quite happy to accept a sentence of 3 months in Western Australia just to know that for that period of time they would have food and shelter.  Mrs Buchanan  goes on to say:  it was conservatively estimated that more than 200 Aborigines were forced to live outdoors in the metropolitan area. 
In April, 129 homeless people living in the open were counted in a survey in the Swan Valley- but there would have been many more, she said. 
Estimates for the East Perth area all say about SO or 60. There are other people known to be sleeping out in Russell and Weld Squares, and in the Coolbellup, Medina and Armadale areas. 
Of course, there are any number of other areas around Western Australia where they are sleeping out in squares, in dugouts and in sand pits where they dig themselves a little shelter to get some warmth. The next quotation comes from the following day's  West Australian.  It contains a very simple little paragraph in an article headed 'Homeless in Plea for Bush Facilities'. It states: 
The State Government is to be asked to provide caravan park facilities for up to 20 unhoused Aboriginal families at a camp in the bush at Lockridge. 
Is that not delightful? In this affluent Western society of ours in which we say to the Aborigines: You will live our life style or you will not live', we suggest that we might consider putting up caravan park facilities in the bush outside the cities. Perhaps we can say that some of these people are more fortunate than others who live in other parts of the State like the north, northwest and south-west where conditions are not better than those that apply anywhere else, although a great number of them even have shelter. 
During the last recess I took the opportunity to go to places like Broome, Kununurra and Halls Creek. Incidentally, in Halls Creek, while I am talking on the Budget and I can talk of a number of things, people cannot even get the news service from the Australian Broadcasting Commission. One resident said to me: 'If war was declared over the weekend we would not know until the Sunday papers got here on Tuesday'. I will deal with Aboriginal housing and refer to Broome first. In Broome there are 332 people occupying what are nicely called Aboriginal reserves. There are a lot of names I would call them but 'Aboriginal reserves' is not among them. They would not be considered parliamentary language anyway. 
In Broome there are what are described as 13 jerry-built camps, 1 tent, 2 caravans, 3 converted workshops, 1 under a tree and one simply called Mummabulangine. On Ann Street there are 12 housing units- I refer to them as housing units only because any other description defies mewith 16 family units and over 100 people. The One Mile reserve has 4 houses, 6 family units and 39 people. The Hill, so named because there is nothing else that one can call it because all that is there is a bare hill, has 1 1 houses, 14 family units and 82 people. Morgan Camp has 7 family units, 3 1 people, no accommodation. At the back of the meatworks there are 8 family units and 23 people. Mummabulangine has 6 family units and 32 people. Just to make it quite clear, there are 27 so-called houses accommodating 57 family units and 332 people, and we are living well into the twentieth century. It may be difficult for people looking at these figures to believe that we are living in the twentieth century, but I am told that this is correct. One of those reserves even has lighting, and this makes it unique in Broome. Of course, it is only 32-volt lighting and no one explained to me why that was. Perhaps it can be explained by the fact that pearl luggers which operate out of Broome use 32-volt lamps. Perhaps they over-ordered and this is one way to get rid of them- give 32-volt lighting to the Aborigines on the reserve and make them use up those lamps. 
Of course, they do not have any power so they do not have refrigerators, irons or stoves other than wood stoves. Most of them have to cook outside because the conditions inside are too cramped. Some of them even have water connected. Generally there is only one tap; it is outside, but it is a tap. Toilet facilities are virtually non-existent. Some who live in the reserves in Western Australia and in other reserves throughout Australia are lucky because they have some form of shelter. Some of the shelters are made of corrugated iron and are miniature hells in summer and iceboxes in winter. Others are wooden structures which even a person with the most vivid imagination could not call housing units. Others are blankets hung on fences and trees. 
I had a lot more I wanted to say but as my time is running short I conclude on a note that was sent to  Mr Viner  who, I understand, took acceptance of it on 28 July. It was signed by the  Chairman,  Sam Alberts, at a place called Oombulgurri, an Aboriginal settlement in the north of Western Australia which is going to be selfsupporting irrespective of what this Federal Government does. One of the councillors is Mark Mitchell. The note says: 
We want to build our houses. Five before Christmas and 15 next year and use mud bricks and stone for Vant Trump plans. We need mechanical tools and bigger generator. We want grow our food in market garden, goats, poultry and pigs.  Mr Johnson  has promised us milking cow. 
Need more mechanics for training young men in how to look after vehicles. Need a license for fishing. Need new boat for people to provide eggs and vegetables. We can grow sorghum and need a hammer mill now for poultry feed and pigs. Phone licence is taking a long time. We need $4,000; business phone cheaper than radio. We want all people to work, but it is hard for young men and old men to get out of bed if there is not any wages. 
Let me assure the Australian people they will be lucky if they get any of these things under this Government. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 

 - Mr President, I wish to raise a point of order. I seek your ruling on a question asked by  Senator Sheil  towards the end of Question Time relating to section 31a and the imposition of a tax on the wine industry. As this matter is already before the Senate Standing Committee on Commerce and Trade, which is at present conducting public hearings, I seek a ruling on Standing Order 99, which states: 
Questions shall not refer to- 
proceedings in Committee not reported to the Senate. 
Is the honourable senator entitled to have the Minister reply to his question? 
-Did the Minister for Social Security, in February of this year, issue guidelines giving departmental officers power to penalise the unemployed by withholding their unemployment benefit if they voluntarily surrendered their employment? If so, were those discretionary powers retrospective? I cite a specific example: An Australian citizen approached my office yesterday to advise that he had voluntarily surrendered his employment prior to 4 July 1 975, to go overseas on a working holiday for 1 5 months. He has now returned to Australia and is unable to find employment. He is being denied unemployment benefit for 6 weeks because the departmental officer in Perth has determined- I think I am quoting the officer directly- that he should have made adequate provision for employment before he left Australia. Will the Minister advise whether this is part of a plan by the Government to reduce the unemployment benefit payment figures to such an extent that people will have to turn to anti-social behaviour in an effort to survive, so that the Government then can justifiably say that they are not worthy of receiving that benefit? 
I direct a question to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Being mindful of his earlier derogatory remarks aimed at the Government of Tasmania for tolerating the co-existence of Budget surpluses and unemployment, I ask: In view of the Western Australian Government's $8.5m declared surplus, the unemployment situation in 
Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court's assertion late last year that 300 sewerage workers would have to be dismissed unless the Federal Government made $3m available, and the State Government's decision to take away the rights to free travel for pensioners, would he agree that the Government of Western Australia should also be accused of criminal negligence or worse? 
I want to raise a matter that should have come to the notice of concerned members of Parliament this afternoon. There was a pitifully small group of women demonstrating outside Parliament House. They require the money that was made available to them last year for women's refuges, health care centres and the like. The women who were here did not have the money to spend on coming to Canberra to demonstrate. They cannot take time off from work to come to Canberra to demonstrate. The people who actually man those places, who provide the services to the women, do not have the time or the money to come to Canberra to demonstrate. I want to read a pamphlet that they have put out. It reads: 
MR FRASER, MAKE IT A REAL CHOICE FOR WOMEN! 
Women's Refuges have been set up to provide short-term emergency accommodation for women and children undergoing severe crises in their normal domestic situations. Refuges assist women to obtain welfare, legal and medical help. They are shelters where women have an opportunity to make a real choice about their future living situation . . . 
A choice made without fear of physical violence . . . 
A choice made without fear of financial distress . . . 
A choice made without fear for their children  's  welfare. 
Domestic violence is widespread. We cannot pretend it doesn't exist. If women know there is somewhere to go to escape that violence, then at least they have a CHOICE. 
Women's Refuges are NOT anti-male. 
They do NOT try to destroy family life. 
They do NOT try to encourage women to leave their husbands. 
WOMEN'S REFUGES DO TRY TO OFFER WOMEN AN ALTERNATIVE TO A HOME SITUATION THAT HAS BECOME UNBEARABLE. 
I wonder whether members of this Senate are aware of the actual number of women who leave their homes for a number of reasons in the middle of the night with an armful of children or a bunch of toddlers at their side, with generally the clothes they stand up in and nothing more because they do not have the means to carry anything more. They do not have the money to go anywhere but to a voluntary refuge which will take them in and give them solace and comfort in their hour of need. The pamphlet goes on: 
BUDGET CUTS TO WOMEN'S REFUGES AND HEALTH CENTRES ARE BETWEEN 35-50 PER CENT OF LAST YEAR'S FIGURES. 
A survey conducted in July 1 976 by the Mental Health Association for the New South Wales Government, showed - 
Refuges cost approximately $35 per week per person to run. 
Many of the staff are voluntary and this is why they are able to keep their costs down. I ask honourable senators to compare the following points made in the pamphlet: 
State run accommodation for children placed in care because mothers cannot support them is $100 per week per child. Psychiatric care for people unable to cope costs the Government $420 per week per person. 
The pamphlet continued: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I refer to an article which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  of Monday, 6 September, which stated that there had been a steady reduction in the number of unemployment benefit recipients between January and June this year. The figures quoted were 248,619 in January and 188,423 in 
June. I ask the Minister: Are those figures correct? If so, will the Minister provide the Senate with the breakdown of that reduction of 60,196 persons in the following way: How many were transferred to sickness or other benefits; how many are no longer receiving unemployment benefit but are in fact unemployed; what were the reasons for the removal of those persons; how many were declared ineligible for receipt of those benefits in an endeavour simply to make the unemployment figures look better than they are? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (DrakeBrockman) Order! I think that question should go on notice. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation in relation to the speech I made during the adjournment debate last night. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I thank the Senate. At page 530 of yesterday's  Hansard  some errors appear. I am quite sure that I did make these statements and that it was not a mistake by  Hansard.  It was my mistake. When speaking about the special benefit that is payable to supporting fathers I said that they received $82.50 a fortnight, which is correct. I said also that they received $6 for each child under the age of six. That figure, of course, should be $15 for each child under the age of six. I went on to say that once the child goes to school he loses that $6 benefit. That figure also should be $15. I said further that a supporting mother keeps the $6 benefit until the child turns sixteen. That figure should also be $15. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Treasurer put forward the evidence on which the conclusion is apparently reached that consumption will only increase if inflation is considered to be falling. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the limit for subsidy for aged persons homes a statewide limit of $ 10,200 per single unit and $ 1 1,850 per double unit with a possible land subsidy of up to $ 1 ,920. 
Are building costs in the north-west of Western Australia about 80 per cent higher than for the Perth area. 
Will the Minister review subsidy allowances so that organisations can receive a higher subsidy for aged persons homes in the north-west of Western Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the amount paid to each organisation which has received a grant for consumer matters in 1 975-76. 
What amount has been appropriated for future grants. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, refers to an article on page 1 1 of this morning's  West Australian  regarding a Miss Michelle Santangelo who is desirous of remaining in employment in Kalgoorlie. Being mindful of the number of refugees from various countries who have come to Australia for safety and who would like to remain, and taking into consideration also many migrants who have permanent resident status and many Australian citizens who are unemployed and unable to gain employment and who are consistently being called dole bludgers by supporters of the Government, I ask: What action will be taken against Miss Santangelo, who was refused migration to Australia on the basis that she does not have a skilled trade? I point out that her visa is for 6 months as a visitor only, her passport is clearly stamped 'Employment Prohibited' and she was made aware that she was not entitled to seek employment before she left Italy. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Did an article in the  Financial Review  of 6 September 1 976 state that there had been a steady reduction in the number of recipients of unemployment benefits between January and June this year. 
Are the figures quoted of 248 619 for January and 188 423 for June correct; if so, of these 60 196 persons (a) how many were transferred to sickness or other benefits, and (b) how many are no longer receiving unemployment benefits but are still unemployed. 
What were the reasons for the removal of those referred to in 2 (b). 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Are many divorced men who are paying maintenance for children of former marriages disadvantaged because (a) child endowment payments are paid to the person caring for the children, usually the former wife, and ( b ) the withdrawal of the rebate for children in taxation returns; if so, will the Treasurer undertake a review of this situation and ensure that divorced men obtain the tax relief that was previously available to them. 
I preface my question, which also is directed to the Minister for Science, by reminding the Minister of the recent review of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution. I ask: How many of the recommendations have been adopted by the Government to date? If none, and in view of the obvious dangers of air pollution especially in our major urban regions, how does the Minister equate this lack of positive action by his Government with his Government's policy of 'science working towards social goals'? 
I rise in the adjournment debate once again to bring to the attention of the Senate the situation which has existed over a period of some years now in Western Australia in Aboriginal housing. Honourable senators will remember that I spoke on this subject in the Budget debate some weeks ago. I used the entire half an hour available to me on a broadcast day to express my concern about the then slashing of Aboriginal programs. Whilst there has been a further injection of some $25m for Aboriginal housing and welfare programs by this Government, my concern has not changed. My apprehensions will be allayed only when I see the results of the money actually being spent. Honourable senators would agree that it is sometimes a very simple matter for federal governments to say they will allocate $25m, or any other amount of money for that matter. The test, of course, is when the money is spent and how it is spent. 
In the Budget debate I produced figures to show that $4.5m that had been appropriated by the Federal Government had been given to Western Australia for Aboriginal housing but had not been spent by the State. I said at the time that it had not been spent by the State Housing Commission. I expressed some amazement that at the time when the building and construction industry was suffering severe depression and when the building industry had more supply than demand, a State that makes up a third of the entire nation in land mass did not use this money and it was ultimately returned to the Treasury when the present Government took office. The point I am making is that $4. 5 m would have gone a long way towards providing housing for some Aborigines who are deserving of State Housing Commission assistance in Western Australia. But one cannot blame entirely the State Housing Commission because we are all aware that State housing commissions operate under the direction of State Premiers and State Ministers for Housing. 
I find it extremely interesting that the number of housing units to be built by the State Housing Commission for Aborigines following the August Budget is only 100. 1 am surprised also that last week after this further injection of $25m, the number of houses to be built for Aborigines in Western Australia is still only 100. There are 900 Aboriginal applications with the State Housing Commission in Western Australia. One has to wonder how genuine governments are when figures like that do not change with the injection of a further $2 5 m specifically for Aboriginal housing and welfare programs. 
My concern is for the people- the urban fringe dwellers, as some of them choose to call themselveswho are forced by circumstance to live under bridges, under trees and behind shelter of any sort they can get. I wish to quote the  West Australian  newspaper. It could not be considered to be the most progressive newspaper in Australia but it and its evening partner are the only two daily newspapers in Western Australia. One has to be guided to a certain extent by what they allow the public to know. On Thursday, 7 October, under the heading 'Welcome boost' it referred to the $25m boost which the Federal Government had given to Aboriginal advancement programs and stated: 
The Aboriginal Affairs Department's allocation is still $8m less than the $ 1 86m it received last year. When inflation is taken into account it is probably $30m (or almost 20 per cent) short of the 1 975-76 level of spending. 
It went on: 
But, even allowing for the likelihood of getting greater value for every dollar, the department will be hard put to make much impact on the four main problems of Aborigines- housing, health, education and employment. 
So perhaps I could say that my concern is well founded. We have to be concerned that in Western Australia the Premier and his Minister for Housing are responsible for making sure that the money given by the Federal Government actually gets through to the people who need it most. In Western Australia, as honourable senators would be aware, the Premier is  Sir Charles  Court- the redoubtable  Sir Charles  Court- who has never shirked what he sees as his responsibility to keep the disadvantaged further disadvantaged when the opportunity presents itself. As honourable senators will remember, he did not shirk this responsibility some months ago. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the present staff establishment of each Legal Aid Office in each State and Territory. 
What is the future staff policy of the Government in this area. 
What was the cost in 1975-76 of the Legal Aid Office in each State and each Territory, and the total cost. 
Have the various Law Societies and Bar Associations made any representations concerning legal aid. If so, what is the import of those representations. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. The Minister would be aware that a mural by one of Australia's most notable cartoonists,  Mr Pickering,  was censored by the University of Western Australia last weekend. Whilst I appreciate that we cannot allow just anybody to go around drawing anything on walls I do consider that perhaps as  Mr Pickering  is such a well known cartoonist that special consideration should have been given. Will the Minister give consideration to making sure that  Mr Pickering  is adequately compensated for his original work which has now been defaced? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to reports that payments made to the victims of the drug thalidomide will pay taxation on the compensation they have finally been able to extract from the drug companies responsible for the misery and suffering caused to them and their families. If these reports are correct, will the Minister inform the House at what rate taxation will be applied to that compensation? 
I do not want to delay the Senate or  Senator Baume  for any length of time but I do want to draw the attention of the Senate to a letter I received today, which I want to read into the record, from a group of Thai students in Australia. The whole of Australia is aware of the dreadful occurrence in Thailand some days ago. We were subjected in our press to a number of front page photographs of students being battered and bashed. The pictures told the story of what is happening in Thailand. I think that we all express our concern that this can happen in the twentieth century when we are supposedly living in a reasonably domocractic world. The letter simply states: 
We, a group of Thai students in Australia, would like to express our deep concern about the imminent threat of  imtimidation  by the repressive military regime which recently grabbed power in Thailand. 
In view of the continuing murder, arrest and intimidation of Thai students and patriots in our home country; the sending of Thai Special Branch Police to Tokyo, Japan, and the sending of right wing radicals to the U.S.A. in an effort by the military junta to suppress and harass Thai students in the respective countries; and finally, in view of the fact that informers of the Royal Thai Embassy are known to have been planted among us, we in Australia strongly feel that our security, our freedom of thought and the freedom to voice our opinion are being threatened. 

 - Senator, if you wish to comment please wait till I have finished. You will have ample opportunity. I promise I will not stand here for more than half an hour. The letter continues: 
We therefore beg you to give immediate consideration to granting permanent residency to any Thai national now in Australia, who cannot return to Thailand for fear of life or liberty, and to ensure the security, and well-being of all Thais in this country, irrespective of their political beliefs. We further request that the Australian Government grant refuge to Thai students and others who are forced to flee Thailand in fear of their lives and liberty. For our own safety, we are not able to release our names in this letter. 
That answers your question,  Senator Lajovic.  Would you put your name on a letter if in actual fact you were under threat as to your freedom, life and liberty? The letter continues: 
For further information, please contact 'Thai Students' . . . 
A Melbourne telephone number was given. The letter is simply signed: 
Yours faithfully, 
A Group of Thai Students in Australia. 
On 11 October 1976 the Australian Development Assistance Agency wrote to  Mr Krishnan  National Director, Overseas Student Service in Carlton, expressing the opinion of the ADAA and the attitude that had been adopted by it to those people who were Colombo Plan students from South Vietnam and Cambodia. I think it is important that some of the statements made in that letter are read into the record. The letter is signed by  Mr H.  Marshall, Assistant Secretary, International Training and Education, at the Australian Development Assistance Agency. He said: 
As you will be aware, following the changes of Government in South Vietnam and Democratic Kampuchea last year, the previous Australian Government announced, through  Senator James  McClelland, Minister for Labor and Immigration, on 1 1 November 1975 - 
Rather synonymous, I imagine- that students from these two countries would not be required to return home, and were free to apply for resident status in Australia if they so chose. 
This decision has been endorsed by the present Government. The Government is not prepared to force students who were nominated by the former Governments of Cambodia or Vietnam to return home against their will. The Government expects that many students who can arrange to do so will in fact return. 
I believe that that situation applies also to those Thai students who are receiving their education in Australia. I believe that if there are students who want to return home they will make arrangements to return home when they feel it is safe to do so. My concern is for those who feel that their life and their liberty will be threatened when they do arrive home or who may have cause to feel that their life and liberty may be threatened while they are here in Australia. My concern is also for those students in Thailand who feel that their life and liberty are being threatened, who may look at Australia as being a refuge and who may apply to come here. Therefore, I ask the same question asked by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  on 13 October when he was speaking about the Thai students. He asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  a question without notice seeking information on what the situation would be so far as Australia was concerned and asking for an assurance that any Thai student who felt endangered by the coup d'etat in Bangkok would not be forcibly repatriated.  Mr Whitlam  asked: 
In view of the sudden and violent coup d'etat which has resulted in the overthrow of Thailand's democratically elected Government, is the Minister aware that many Thai students now in Australia are deeply concerned that their lives or safety might be endangered if they were forced to return to Thailand? Will the Minister therefore extend to such students the same considerations as my Government extended to those Vietnamese and Cambodian students who felt . . . endangered by the changes of government in their countries last year, that is, will he allow those who are due to return to Thailand after completion of their studies at the end of this year to remain in Australia for the time being? 
The reply of the Minister was not definitive, nor was the reply of the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen,  to a rather facetious question asked by  Mr Katter  on 7 October.  Mr Killen  's reply was facetious and said nothing. I do not think the Minister was even aware that a problem existed in Thailand. I want something a little better than that. I would like a definitive statement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on the Thai students who are already resident in Australia. I would like to know what the situation is as far as this Government is concerned if Thai students apply for permanent resident status and whether Australia will be offering refuge to those students and other people in Thailand who may seek asylum in Australia as a result of the coup in their country and who do not wish to stay there under the existing regime. I want to know what is the Government's policy. I want to know whether it will be enunciated in the very near future so as to settle the disturbed minds of people who are here and other people who are overseas. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that the Family Planning Association in Western Australia is in danger of closing because the Federal Government will not renew annual grants. 
Will the Minister undertake a review of the Association's financial position with a view to providing it with adequate financial assistance. 

 Mr Hunt The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) I make it clear to  Senator Coleman  that the Federal Government did not state that it would cease to provide financial assistance to the family planning associations. I have said that the method and level of funding the association was under review as part of the overall review of Medibank. My Department undertook a comprehensive examination of both the family planning program (which provides funds for non-clinical expenditure) and the health program grant (which provides funds for clinical expenditure). In the interim funding continued on a month-to-month basis. The Government will continue to provide adequate financial assistance to the family planning associations. 
An amount of $750,000 has been included in my Department's 1976-77 budget under the family planning program for research and educational programs, for support of the two national family planning organisations and for support of the non-clinical activities of the family planning associations. 
From 1 October 1976 the family planning associations will continue to receive health program grants on the basis of a deficit funding of clinical services after allowing for medical benefits and other related revenue received until 30 June 1977. The level of the grant is now being calculated on the cost to the Associations of clinical services provided to standard Medibank contributors, or those patients who are exempt from the levy because of low incomes or entitled to pensioner health benefits. 
Each Association will be charging a fee-for-service for scheduled services for those patients who are privately insured, except where recourse to fund benefit is not possible because the clients are 'unbillable' through reluctance to utilise family cover etc. In this case the health program grant will also be available as a means of financing the costs of the services to these patients. Reports in Western Australia that the Government would not renew financial assistance to the family planning association are therefore inaccurate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister state in a speech given at a meeting of New South Wales consumer organisations that 'Consumer advice and complaint facilities are best provided by the States'. If so, what role does the Minister envisage for the Australian Government in this field. 
Did the Minister also state at that meeting that 'I have sent two references to the Commission. These deal with consumer education and a number of matters such as unit pricing, prepackaging and date stamping'. If so, apart from the report on consumer education which is due by the end of October, when are the other reports due and when will they be presented to Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Prime Minister in a position to advise on the policy in respect of the continuance of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, bearing in mind the recommendation of Professor Charles Rowley to the Royal Commission that it be phased out over 5 to 6 years and a Commission for Aboriginal Development set up to bring Aboriginals into top policy making. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I refer to the results of the Hookey-Hicks environmental inquiry into sand mining on Fraser Island which stated that the only area where sand mining should be allowed is a small area below the mean high water mark on the eastern beach. In view of the fact that the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  has said that his Government will not revoke mining leases and that it will presumably allow the mining of mineral sands to continue unabated, what action will the Minister take to revoke the export licences and to have the island included in the National Estate, as recommended by the commissioners? 
I do not want to delay the Senate unduly but I want tonight very briefly to discuss community attitudes and the need for governments to provide avenues of assistance for people who are already disadvantaged. I am particularly pleased to see that a few journalists are in the Press Gallery. It is a most unusual occurrence at any time and it is even more unusual during the adjournment debate. I hope they will listen to what I have to say and I hope it will sink in that they have a responsibility to the people of Australia which they are not accepting at the moment. My speech is not related to those members who are in the Press Gallary at the moment. I refer to a situation developing in Australia which I do not consider to be a healthy one. To make my point quite clear I want to relate a very sad little story. I learnt about it in Kalgoorlie last week. It had absolutely no Press coverage. I can only presume that the reason is that the events concerned an Aboriginal girl and her Aboriginal baby. It would not have happened to a white person. A white person would have been able to communicate. Perhaps the only thing that was wrong in this instance was that the Aboriginal girl had no means of communication. 
This very sad story relates to a young Aboriginal girl with 2 children, one aged 2 years and the other a 7-month old baby who had a very bad heart condition. The Aboriginal girl had been staying at an Aboriginal hostel run by the Little Sisters of the Poor. She had been looking after the children. The Sisters informed me that she did not drink. She cared about nothing but her children and the fact that she had a very ill baby. One weekend she went to stay with a friend at Kambalda which is 60 kilometres from Kalgoorlie.  Her  baby got sick. She apparently had no means of communicating with people at Kambalda because she went to a phone and rang the Little Sisters of the Poor and asked them to come to Kambalda to pick her up because her baby was ill. It was unfortunate that on the day the Sisters had no transport. They rang a community welfare sister and asked her to go and see the baby, which she did. She immediately advised the Aboriginal girl and arranged for her to go and see one of the doctors in Kambalda. The doctor gave the Aboriginal girl a prescription and apparently through lack of communication or a communication breakdown she was unable to explain to the doctor that she did not have any money to have the prescription made up. 
So she decided that she should make her way back to the only people she knew cared about her and her baby. It was a very hot day. The Little Sisters of the Poor had provided her with a brand new pusher when she first went to the Aboriginal hostel. For some reason she was not able to take her pusher on the bus. I do not know whether that was because the pram racks on the back of the bus were full. Eventually she got on to the bus but she left her pusher at the bus stop. She travelled in a very hot bus on a very hot day 60 kilometres to Kalgoorlie. Upon arrival she had a very long walk to get to the only people she knew who cared for her. Of course, the baby was already suffering from dehydration. The heat of the mother's body did not assist the condition one bit. The sisters saw her coming and went down to meet her. They took the baby from her and took her back to the Little Sisters of the Poor. They bathed the baby as well as they could. She was suffering from diarrhoea and her buttocks were red raw. There was very little that could be done, except to take her to the Kalgoorlie Regional Hospital and from there the Royal Flying Doctor Service, which is doing a tremendous job in the north of Western Australia, took her to the Princess Margaret Hospital. The baby died the next day. 
There are a number of things about which I think the Kalgoorlie people would be upset. I doubt very much whether very many of them know that this incident happened, because the Press once again has not accepted its responsibility of reporting the matter. But there are also areas about which we should be expressing concern. It indicates to me that there is a lack of communication and that there is a lack of places to which people who are already disadvantaged can go in their time of need and at which they have some communication. I do not know whether in this instance it may have been possible to save the life of the baby had there been a hospital or clinic facilities available in Kambalda. Kambalda is situated approximately 60 to 70 kilometres from Coolgardie and it is much the same distance from Kalgoorlie. It is a mining district. It has a clinic and I understand that there is only one doctor. It has a community health sister. I do not think she is a resident of the town but she visits there. There is no hospital at all. If ever there was a serious mining accident the people of Kambalda would be in dire straits because they would have to rely on hospitals that are some 35 miles distant or on the Flying Doctor Service. 
The Flying Doctor Service is doing a tremendous job. It always has done a very good job. It has provided a tremendous service to the people in isolated areas. But it is also necessary to have the back-up services for it to be able to continue to provide its service. I think we should look very closely at the breakdown in communication which has occurred, particularly in areas where ethnic groups and Aboriginal communities are located, such as in Kalgoorlie. I am very pleased to notice that at long last we have had appointed a liaison officer with the Department of Social Security. He is a gentleman by the name of Fred Meredith whom I met while I was up there last week. He tells me that he has a certain amount of freedom and that he is able to go out and talk to groups of Aborigines to see whether they have any problems, simply to sit and have a cup of tea with them. I would like to think that he will be able to retain that freedom, that he will not be loaded down with work which will keep him tied behind a desk, because that type of communication is one way in which to break down the barriers of bureaucracy with people who feel that they are disadvantaged and who find it difficult to communicate. 
I know time is getting on and I know that everybody is probably a little impatient, but I want to talk very briefly about another Kalgoorlie situation which  Senator Chaney  raised with the Minister on Tuesday of this week. It concerns a black man who was painted white by louts. That is the only word one can use to describe them in this instance. That man is still in a very serious condition. He was stripped and he was sprayed with enamel. He had enamel on his face and in his eyes. He was lucky not to have been blinded. At the moment he still has beds of enamel in his ears. It may deafen him; I do not know.  His  genitals were sprayed. When he arrived at the Little Sisters of the Poor hospitalthat is one of the few places to which Aborigines in Kalgoories can go- he said, 'They thought I was a white man'. I think it is rather tragic that the Press once again has played down this situation. It has ignored completely the situation that I mentioned earlier about the black baby. 
I wonder whether it is not time that we in the Parliament exercised our right and our prerogative to make sure that when we know something of this nature occurs we use this adjournment debate more regularly to bring to the attention of the people of Australia through the media- the proceedings of the adjournment debate are not broadcast and we have to rely on the media to report us correctly- what is happening. Further, we should castigate the Press in the adjournment debate whenever we hear of circumstances such as this to make its members aware that it has a responsibility to let the people of Australia and the people outside Australia know what is happening in the various communities in this country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the names and professional qualifications of the persons who are the members of the governing boards of the private health funds in Western Australia. 
Under what laws, State or Commonwealth, are the private funds in Western Australia incorporated. 
What provision does any State, or Commonwealth law, or '.he rules of each private health fund, have for (a) the election of the board of management by contributors to the Fund, and (b) the publication of annual balance sheets of the Funds. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Will the Minister investigate whether a grant could be made to the appropriate body so that four Aboriginal girls and one Aboriginal boy who have completed their high school education at Broome could be employed as teacher aides at the Kununurra Catholic Primary School. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Was it stated in the  West Australian of  12 August 1976 that the Schools Commission was worried about a statement that the Government had decided to 'replace the existing cost supplementation arrangements by less automatic provisions for unavoidable increases in costs '. If so, will the Minister inform the Senate whether increases in grants in line with the consumer price index are no longer contemplated. 
What is covered by the phrase 'unavoidable increases in costs'. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I preface it with the comment that the devaluation of 17.5 per cent last weekend and the further increase of costs will now effectively take the Australian Broadcasting Commission out of any competitive activity with commercial channels on the overseas film market. Rumours are already being floated that legislation to reintroduce radio and television licences at higher rates will be placed before this Parliament early in 1977. 1 ask the Minister whether these rumours are fact or just part of the overall nightmare of Australia being governed by a Liberal-National Country Party coalition. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I am extremely pleased that it is not going to his colleague the Minister for Administrative Services because he has openly admitted in this chamber many times that he does not read the newspapers. I am quite sure that  Senator Durack  does. I point out that on page 2 of the  Sunday Independent  of 21 November there appeared an article which was headed: 
Checks to intensify. 
The article talked about more intensive checks to be earned out on international aircrews at the Perth Airport following the conviction of 3 South African crew members who were trying to smuggle live parrots and revolvers out of Australia. Having had some experience with the Customs people at Perth Airport over the past few months, I am concerned that there has been a decrease in the number of officers on duty whenever international aircraft arrive and depart. I ask the Minister: Will he advise the total strength of the Customs inspection force at the Perth and Fremantle offices in Western Australia. How many of those officers are attached to Fremantle and how many to the Perth Airport? What is the difference between that figure and the figure, say, 12 months ago? If more intensive checks are to be made, will the Minister advise by how many the force will be increased and when it will be increased? 
The Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  has already expressed the views of the Opposition on this matter. We do not intend to oppose the amendments. I want to make a couple of points that I think are highly relevant in this day and age. I think we all recall those days when legislation in this area contained terms such as 'husbands', 'estate', 'wives' and responsibility'. I am pleased to see that these amendments refer only to 'spouses'. It was always the situation, by tradition and by statistics, that wives outlived their husbands by something like 6.68 years. They were the ones who had to pay the estate duty on their husband's properties. This sometimes meant that they had to reduce their standard of living purely to accommodate both State and Federal governments in the area of estate and probate duties. 
There is still some legislation which does not take into consideration the fact that a wife in a marriage is a partner in that marriage. I think immediately of the Commonwealth Superannuation Act which provides that a wife is able to receive only about 75 per cent of the total amount that her husband receives if he is not inconsiderate enough to die before she does. I think the Government would do well to look at that area also. We also have to take into consideration the fact that a great number of people in the community these days do not believe that they have to be married to live in a marriage partnership. Nothing in these amendments caters for the common law spouse. I should like to hear the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  in his reply to this debate, state the intention of the Government with respect to common law spouses, whether they be wives or husbands. These people contribute to what they believe is a marriage partnership; they live as married people; and they are entitled to be treated as married people. I think that is a great consideration that has to be taken now; it should not wait until such time as more people are disadvantaged throughout our community. 
I believe that the figure mentioned in the amendments is not realistic. It does not take into consideration the general appreciation of properties over the years to come. The figure will need constant review or there will need to be total abolition of estate duties on properties passing between spouses. The situation at the moment is that there will be relief or exclusion from liability for duty only up to a maximum of $50,000, or in the case of a matrimonial home, as I am given to understand, up to $90,000. This will not always meet the circumstances. One can find a property appreciating very rapidly these days. It is not the fault of the people who purchased that property, quite often at low prices and perhaps in outdated areas. They suddenly find that the whole area in which they live is to be pulled down and new buildings are to be built. They realise that their properties have appreciated suddenly to a much greater value. The other consideration that I think has to be given in relation to these amendments is to those completely dependent children- I talk of them as children only in the sense that they are born to a particular marriage- whom we find frequently in our society, such as a man or a woman, sometimes in middle age, who has devoted his or her entire life to looking after aged and infirm parents. These people suddenly find themselves in middle age with no skills at all. They have to sell the family home to pay probate, estate or succession duties, call them what you will. They suddenly find that they are without a job, without the security of being able to live in the property that was owned by their parents- sometimes the only property that they have ever known- and without the familiar things around them, just to satisfy a government. I should like the Minister's comments on those matters. We support the Bill. 
I am in total agreement with what the Labor Party shadow Minister,  Senator Grimes,  has had to say in regard to the Defence Service Homes Amendment Bill. I want to raise in my speech tonight a specific area. This is the second time today that I have had to rise to express my concern on behalf of the women in the Australian community. I cannot allow this opportunity to pass without once again pointing out just how discriminatory is some of the legislation that comes before this chamber and the other place. In his second reading speech the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  said: 
This Bill therefore provides for the establishment of a Defence Service Homes Corporation, the affairs of which will be conducted within the departmental framework by the Secretary of the Department of Veterans' Affairs. The very recent establishment of the Department is evidence of the Government 's interest in the welfare of those - 
I stress the word 'those '- who have served this country in the armed Services. 
I presume that the word 'those' includes exservicewomen, because at the moment there is no provision in most of the previous Acts, including the War Service Homes Act, for a great number of ex-servicewomen who were in the Services during the war but who did not serve overseas. It was not their fault that they did not serve overseas, because only women who had specific skills were able to serve overseas. However, they did contribute a great deal to the welfare of the people of Australia. 
I want to quote from a letter written by the former Minister for Urban and Regional Development to my colleague from Victoria,  Senator Melzer. Senator Melzer  was most anxious to participate in this debate but unfortunately had to meet a most important electoral commitment away from Parliament House at a time which conflicted with the bringing on of the debate. She has given me a copy of the letter so that it may be recorded. The letter is dated 13 October 1975. The former Minister wrote: 
When the Defence Service Homes legislation was originally enacted to provide homes for members of the Forces who served in the 1914-18 War, the principle adopted was that benefits would be limited to persons who were enlisted for service in Forces raised for active service overseas. The same principle was followed when the legislation was extended to cover service in the 1939-43 War and eligibility was limited to persons who were enlisted or appointed for or employed on active service outside Australia or on a ship of war. Therefore, members of those Forces raised for active service abroad, the AIF, the RAAF and the RAN, some members of the Nursing Service and persons enlisted for service in the Australian Army Medical Women's Service (AIF), are eligible for benefits. On the other hand, persons who were enlisted in the Citizen Military Force, the Australian Army Medical Women's Service (CMF) and the Women's Auxiliary Forces, which were raised primarily for home service, are not eligible unless they actually served outside Australia. There is, therefore, no distinction, in this regard, between men and women. 
To my mind, there is a very great distinction between the men and women who can be covered. 
I am quite aware of that but this matter goes a long way back. The Labor Government is not the only government to blame. I am making the point that this Government does not have the courage to do what other governments have not done. No government has yet had the guts to concede that women played a vital part in the Services during the war. 

 -Rubbish! Senator Sir Magnus Cormack should not talk so much twaddle. 
-Well, it is a pity you are not there now. Ex-servicewomen enlisted voluntarily for service but, as I mentioned, they could not, even if they wanted to, enlist for service overseas unless they were skilled in particular areas. They could not do so simply because they were women. However, they were actively engaged here in Australia and their lives were just as much at risk here as were the lives of some of those who were serving overseas. 
And keep them barefoot and pregnant, too, I suppose. That is the attitude of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack to women. The work that those women performed freed a lot of men and enabled them to go overseas. Those men are eligible for housing benefits and the women who replaced them are not. Those women worked hard and they worked long. They worked extremely well and they deserve the same form of compensation as that of which the men are able to take advantage. I have already explained the reasons why they did not go overseas. I want the Government to explain to me why it does not have the guts in this day and age, when it is abolishing the Australian Housing Corporation and replacing it with the Defence Service Homes Corporation, to cater for those women. 
Honourable senators will know that in December 1972  Mr Whitlam  and the then Minister for Defence put forward a number of amendments. Some of those amendments were passed. One of them had the effect of extending the scheme to include all persons serving in the defence forces after 7 December 1972 with 3 years continuous service. So we are now talking about women as well as men who have served in the defence forces in peacetime as being eligible for a benefit which is not available to women who served in wartime. They are the women about whom I am talking; they are the ones for whom I am seeking the benefit. 
At the same time, I am given to understand, consideration was given to extending the scheme to cover those women, but it was considered that the cost would be too high. I ask: The cost of what? Are we talking about thousands of women who will suddenly apply for this benefit, or are we talking about a few hundred women who are at an age- the war finished 30-odd years ago- at which they need security and the advantage of knowing that they have decent, comfortable accommodation for which they can afford to pay and which will be provided for them in their old age. We are talking about a few hundred people and possibly a few thousand dollars. The amount involved would be only a few thousand dollars. The flood gates will not suddenly be opened for hundreds of thousands of people. Perhaps a few hundred women find themselves in those circumstances. 
For the benefit of those honourable senators who happen to be of the opposite sex to me, let me assure them that it is not easy at any time, under any circumstances, for a woman to have a loan made available to her. The lending institutions and the banks look rather unkindly upon women, especially if they happen to be single women. They do not see that women contribute a great deal to the running of Australia, any more than  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack recognises that women in the Parliament play a great role. 
We play a most important role,  Senator. One  of these days you may be able to find out just how important that role is. Those women have the same difficulties as men in saving for a reasonable deposit on a home in an endeavour to keep monthly repayments at a minimum. I am talking about women who are no longer young. I am talking about women who are now in their fifties and who may find that it is not possible to commit themselves for a great amount of money at widely varying monthly repayments which they may not be able to afford. 
I spoke a little earlier about the qualifying period which now applies for ex-service women. Women who have served continuously for 3 years in the defence Services can at this point in time have a loan made available to them if they are married or are about to marry or have dependants. I have been informed that a number of single ex-service women have applied for and received loans and have their dependent parents living with them. Single ex-servicemen get loans for homes and nobody begrudges the widows of ex-servicemen the benefits that they receive; but I am talking about the women, particularly those women who were quite prepared to sacrifice themselves if necessary, who sacrified their time and their human resources in wartime service. 
The excuse that the claims of these women could not be considered unless the claims of the men who served in the Citizen Military Forces could be considered is, to my mind, quite spurious. I am not saying that the CMF men are not entitled to have consideration given to them. I think the claims of the CMF men are very real ones. But I wish to make the simple point that the women to whom I am referring volunteered; the men of the CMF were conscripted. To me, that makes quite a big difference. The women voluntarily enlisted out of a desire to serve their country. May I say, for the benefit of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, that in 1944 women comprised two-thirds of the defence forces serving in Australia. Men could not have gone overseas unless the women were prepared to step in and do the messy work that the men had left behind here. At this point of time, those women want an assurance of proper, permanent, decent accommodation for the rest of their lives. I hope that the Defence Service Homes Corporation will bring before this Parliament in the very near future a Bill for an allocation of land so that a housing project, a block of units perhaps, could be established for the aged amongst those exservice women and, if necessary, for their husbands who may not necessarily have contributed in the war effort. 
As I have already stated, I do not believe that the extension of this scheme to wartime exservice women would commit this Government or any other government to a great deal of money. I do not think we should be endeavouring to put a cost on the services of those women between 1939 and 1945. 1 think it is disgraceful that 30 years after the war has finished they are still having these rights denied them. I hope this will be one of the first areas to come before the Parliament from the Defence Service Homes Corporation. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Minister advise the Senate whether a directive was issued by the Department of the Treasury early this current financial year to commissioners of taxation that they should slow down on issuing taxation refunds because the Government did not have the money? Will the Minister advise whether there is still a policy on this slow-down tactic? What is the average delay in processing taxation returns and the issue of refund cheques? 
I have listened to the debate on these 3 Bills with a great deal of interest over the last 2 days. 
-I do not have to be in the chamber to listen to debate. As  Senator Baume  knows, we have piped music from this chamber into our offices. We can work and listen at the same time without any trouble. I was extremely interested in what  Senator Bonner  had to say. My interjection was only to imply that even if only one Aboriginal was to be concerned by this legislation, he was entitled to the protection of this Parliament. The debate has been an extremely sensitive one. The subject is a very sensitive one. I listened particularly carefully to what my colleague from the Northern Territory,  Senator Robertson,  had to say yesterday. I must congratulate him on his speech. I think he covered most areas very concisely and spoke with the true feeling he has for the Aboriginal people. I was not able to listen to another speech that was made about 8 weeks ago in Melbourne. It was also a very sensitive speech. I would like to quote part of it into the record to show the sensitivity of feeling that was expressed by the  speaker  at that time. He said: 
I feel sure there is almost no person in Australia who has not become aware in recent years of the relationship between Aboriginals and their land. 
This relationship, or kinship, is a very special kind of thing. To Aboriginals, land is indivisible with life itself. Aboriginals are one with nature, with all the animals the land supports. The features of the land are believed by the Aboriginals to have been made by spirits of the Dreamtime. 
This special kinship is the basis of the land rights movement. It is not just a desire to own land-as we might- for economic exploitation. 
Later he said: 
The traditional Aboriginal's way of life gave him an understanding and love of nature for which we may envy him but which we may rarely, if ever, possess ourselves. 
He further said: 
His land is his world, where all his people's actual and mythical history took place, and it thus Ties at the root of his art and religion also. It is his homeland and his shrine and much more besides. 
It is easily forgotten that until very recent times Aboriginal people were forbidden to speak their own languages and observe their traditional customs in what was considered by Administrators to be an enlightened policy of assimilation '. 
It was considered to be only a matter of time before the last vestiges of Aboriginal belief were drowned in the vast melting pot. 
Those were the remarks of the Minister of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  at the opening of the Aboriginal exhibit at 'Environment 76' on 8 October. They show that the Minister himself feels that anything to do with Aboriginal land is a very sensitive subject. My concern in particular with the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976 is that under clause 73 certain powers are to be given to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. Those powers relate to the protection of sacred sites, the entry of persons to Aboriginal land, the conservation of wildlife and the access to territorial seas. I am concerned with the clause because, as honourable senators will know,  Mr Justice  Woodward in his report recommended that these powers should be held by the Federal Government. I think his words were that they should be matters for Commonwealth legislation. I have to agree with  Mr Justice  Woodward. I believe that it is not only necessary but also essential that the Federal Government have that control. 
To illustrate that point I want to talk briefly about what has happened in my State of Western Australia within the last 2 weeks with regard to Aboriginal land. I want honourable senators to remember these actions when amendments are moved later. I hope they will recall what has already happened in Western Australia and what could happen in the Northern Territory if the land rights Bill goes through in its present form. I have spoken on a number of occasions in this place about the settlement of Oombulgurri in the north of Western Australia. I have expressed both my delight and my despair at some of the things that either were or were not happening at Oombulgurri. I want to quote an article from the  West Australian  of 25 November, just 2 weeks ago. It is not a very long article but it is a most important one. It is important in relation to this Bill. I am conscious of course that the eastern States' newspapers do not cover to any great extent anything that happens in the west unless it is considered sensational, and then they might decide it is worthy of a couple of paragraphs in the back section of the paper with the comics or the sporting news. I have been concerned that many times in this chamber we have heard Government supporters and Ministers elected by the people of Western Australia say that they do not read the Western Australian newspapers. So for the benefit of those from Western Australia and from the other States I intend to read the entire article. The headline reads: 
Govt 'Aims to Breach' Reserve. 
The article goes on: 
The Society of Labor Lawyers yesterday accused the State Government of proposing to violate an Aboriginal reserve on behalf of mining interests. 
It said that the Government had done this by declaring the Forrest River Aboriginal reserve in the far north of Western Australia open for mining. 
The move had dangerous implications for Aborigines who lived on reserves in Western Australia. 
It opened the way for anyone with a miner's right to enter and prospect on reserves. 
The society was commenting on the Government's decision to call for applications for temporary reserves in the Forrest River area. 
The SLL  president, Mr Howard  Olney, said yesterday that the Government was using Section 275 of the Mining Act as a back-door method to achieve its aims. 
The section allowed mining, with the Governor's approval, on reserves. 
Last year legislation to allow the Government to approve mining activity on reserves had been shelved after widespread protests by Aborigines and their friends. 
The Government was now acting on a 72 -year-old statute. 

 Mr Olney said: 'In our opinion, it is another example of the Court government's contempt for the rights of ordinary people, particularly when those rights stand in the way of the profits of its wealthy friends. 
We are aware that the Government has promised to refer any applications for mining reservations to the Aboriginal Lands Trust. 
We have little confidence, however, that any notice would be taken by the Court government of any objection that the trust might raise which would seriously interfere with the drive for pro fit'. 
Because mention was made of the Aboriginal Lands Trust, let us look at what its  chairman, Mr Ken  Colbung, had to say.  His  remarks were reported in the  Sunday Times  of 28 November, 3 days later. He said: 

 Mr Mensaros 

That is the Western Australian Minister for Mines- has said no mining will commence without reference to the Aboriginal Lands Trust, but I know he won't pay any attention to our views. 
If this goes through unchallenged the Trust will lose all credibility, and it will be the finish of our land rights. 
The Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill, which we are debating cognately with 2 others, is to do with Northern Territory land rights. I believe that the actions of the Western Australian Government are completely contrary to the wishes of the Aboriginal people at Oombulgurri and on every other reserve in Western Australia. This is traditional Aboriginal land that we are discussing. This Bill covers traditional Aboriginal land. Yet we are saying that we will pass the power to control all these things to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly.  Dr Letts  has already said that in fact the land councils would be abolished if the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly gained control over the land. We heard from  Senator Baume  yesterday afternoon about this Bill respecting sacred sites and traditional lands. This is not important just to the Aboriginal people; I believe it is important to all Australian people. 
I am glad that you do. I was a bit disturbed at some of the things you had to say yesterday. The Aboriginal people have a distinctive soul feeling for their lands- the land where they lived, the land where they were conceived, and the land where they were born. All the Aboriginals know who owns that particular piece of land. A great number of the problems of the cities and the towns are being created purely and simply because traditional Aboriginal land has been taken away from traditional Aboriginal people. 
I have spoken before about the problems in places like Kununurra, Broome and Derby in Western Australia; particularly about Kununurra where many problems have been created by transient type Aboriginals coming into the outskirts of the townships because they have nowhere else to go and because their traditional Aboriginal land has now been buried under metres of water at the Ord River dam. One has to wonder whether those problems that are being experienced, not only by the black community but also by the white community in those townships, were in actual fact caused by the fact that the Aboriginals no longer have this soul feeling with the land. The situation there is not unique. It pertains in the Northern Territory as much as it does in Western Australia, Queensland or wherever there are numbers of Aboriginals. 
The Western Australian State Government has now opened up one of the few areas where the Aboriginals were coping quite well with the community in which they were living. They were able to grow their own vegetables. They participated in the various agricultural shows being held in their areas. They were arranging housing and had asked the Government for more money so that they could have housing. They were endeavouring to provide services and goods for the 400-odd people who live on the reserve at Oombulgurri. Yet now we find that at a time when they are negotiating for mining rights on that very land the State Government nas seen fit to open the land for all and sundry to compete. Anyone with a miner's right can simply make application to the Government to mine on that property. The traditional Aboriginal property that belongs to them should be maintained for them by them. If the Western Australian State Government got applications from 2 people for mining rights at Oombulgurri, one of which was from the Aboriginals who are resident on that land and the other from a large mining company, who do honourable senators think would get the guernsey? It would not be the Aborigines, not with the State Government that we have in office at the present time in Western Australia but which will change in the early months of next year. 
Yesterday  Senator Baume  said that this Bill allows for the protection of sacred sites. A question is raised in my mind because of my participation on a particular Senate select committee some 2 years ago. That Committee was the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control.  Senator Chaney  and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack were also members of that Committee. As part of the commission that we had received from this chamber we made a tour of all of the mining areas including the Bowen Basin, the Mt Isa mines, the bauxite mines at Gove and eventually we got out into the Northern Territory to Jabiru and Jabaluka and some other place that I cannot recall. While there we were taken to the extreme end of the lease holding. A fence was constructed to within 2 feet of what was considered to be sacred tribal land. I was concerned that we were allowing all but access to those sacred lands by people who would be working on that lease holding. I had to stop to consider then just how long it would probably be before someone violated the sacred feelings that those Aboriginals in that area have about that particular site. There were magnificent carvings that had been done many generations ago by the forebears of the Aboriginals there and perhaps some of those who are sitting in the gallery today. I was concerned when I read this BUI that there is insufficent protection for sacred sites because we have not yet clearly defined by Aboriginal standards what they consider to be sacred sites. There are many that are unknown to us. There are many that are known only to Aboriginals who live out in the middle of the Northern Territory who have very little contact if any at all with white man. So we have to be concerned on that issue as well. 
Another area of concern I believe is a report that was presented to me and which was incorporated yesterday in the Senate by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Keeffe)  but which I understand was not read. Portions of it disturb me greatly. It is the report on the progress of the building program being undertaken at Beagle Bay in Western Australia from its inauguration in 1974 until the present time. Allegations are being made of Aboriginals resident on the mission at Beagle Bay being 'ripped off'- I think was the expression used at one stage by the missionaries or the administrative committee that was managing the mission- and the administrative committee that was managing the mission- and the frustration of the architects who were endeavouring to set up housing facilities and sewerage facilities for the Aborigines who live there. 
An integral part of all of these Bills is the housing, welfare and education of the Aboriginal people. I have spoken about this many times. I have spoken about the lack of concern being shown by the media about incidents that happen to Aboriginal people that might not necessarily have occurred if in actual fact the person had been white, not black. We have to be concerned that irrespective of what we do today the effect is not going to be felt only by those 27 000 Aboriginals who are resident in the Northern Territory but also by the 160 000 Aboriginals who live in Australia. They are all equally entitled to land rights and they are entitled to the protection of this Government- not by a government that is sitting somewhere up in Darwin when it feels so inclined and has no regular pattern of meetings and really does not have a good deal of feeling for anything other than the vested interests in its particular area. 

 Senator Bonner said earlier that he intended nominating for the committee that is being established under the terms of reference that were set down late yesterday evening by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  I am also one who intends nominating on behalf of my Party to participate on that committee. If this Bill has any substance, if it has the guts that is necessary to give the people their complete land rights- their true land rights-there would not be any necessity to set up such a committee. 
I am not suggesting that our original proposals were perfect. I am simply saying that they are a vast improvement on what the Government has come up with now after this legislation has laid on the table in the House of Representatives since June of this year. The Government has come up with a handful of amendments to a Bill which has no substance and the amendments which give no substance to the Bill. 
I think the time for the setting up of the committee was before the Bill was actually drafted. I would suggest to the Government that it might like to take it back, redraft it and then represent it to this Parliament before it is passed. 
-Is it better to give them land rights or is it better to deny them land rights for perhaps another 3 months so that they have the benefit of that redrafted legislation when it comes into being or are we to have these amending Bills consistently coming up for review because the legislation is not adequate? The amendments being proposed by the Government are not adequate and no matter what we on the Opposition side do with amendments we are never going to be able to re-arrange a Bill and give it the substance that is necessary for the Aborigines to have complete control of the land to which they are entitled. Quite frankly, I am not prepared to see the Aboriginals ripped off by this Government. I am not prepared to see them ripped off by the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory, any more than I am prepared to see them ripped off as the report on the Beagle Bay construction suggests that they were ripped off. There is provision in this Bill and in the amendments proposed by the Govenment for just that kind of action to happen. 
I am concerned not only for the Northern Territory Aboriginals but also for each and every Aboriginal throughout the length and breadth of this continent. Honourable senators opposite would do well to consider that what they determine in this place at this time will have a tremendous effect on all of those Aboriginals. Of course, I will be placing my support behind the amendments that will be moved from this side of the chamber at a later stage. I trust that at least some honourable senators opposite will take into consideration what has already occurred in this debate and that they will take great care when they cast their vote, because the Aboriginals and the people of Australia will be watching them. 
I want to raise a couple of matters in the Committee stages of the States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill because of my concern about a number of areas in which money is appropriated by this Federal Parliament to a State government which has absolutely no intention of using it. I made mention of this some weeks ago in a speech in this place on the Budget. In speaking about Aboriginal affairs I expressed my concern at the return of $4.5m which had been appropriated by the Federal Parliament to the Western Australian State Government through the State Housing Commission- money specifically designed to cater for the needs of some of the Aboriginals who are on the waiting list for housing in that State. I am concerned once again that in Western Australia there are more than 900 Aboriginal applicants on the waiting list of the Housing Commission. These people are the ones who have known housing problems. There are many, many more- hundreds morewhose housing needs are not known by State or Federal governments but are known only by the Aboriginals themselves. I get very concerned to see that in my State particularly there are so many Aboriginals living in abject misery. They are living in the most appalling conditions that one would have to see to believe. They are living under sheets of iron. They are living in what could be described as cardboard boxes and in packing cases. Yet, as I mentioned, under the 1975-76 appropriation, the Western Australian Government last year determined that it did not need $4,556,000 which it subsequently returned to Treasury. 
There is another area that disturbs me greatly and which I do not think has yet been touched upon. It concerns one of the myriad of problems associated with Aboriginals. Although we have racial discrimination legislation, I do not think that it is being fully utilised. I believe that particularly in States such as Western Australia its provisions are not being applied effectively. I know of hotels in which it is still not possible for blacks to drink in the same bar in which whites in the upper socio-economic class drink. Of course, they can drink in those bars in which the whites in the lower socio-economic groups drink. In Collie, which is a mining township in Western Australia, black people are not allowed to drink in a particular bar or in the lounge. I am not saying that that situation exists only in Collie; it probably exists in other places. A newspaper report told us not so long ago of a black man and his wife being refused accommodation at a hotel even though the wife was obviously pregnant and very distressed as a result of a long drive through extreme heat conditions. They had to return to a reserve in order to get accommodation that night because the hotel management determined that, as they were black, they were not allowed to live in the white man's hotel overnight. I know of another instance- again this is in the south-west of Western Australia- of a band not being able to get bookings purely and simply because the members of that band are Aboriginals. I am disturbed by the fact that we are granting money to States and we suggest to the States that we would appreciate their perhaps giving support to our legislation; but no one seems to be doing anything about it. 
I am concerned about the unemployment problems that Aboriginal people throughout Australia face. If my memory serves me correctly, a working party was set up by this Government earlier this year to report on the problems of Aboriginal unemployment. I have not seen the report of that working party. I do not think it has been presented to Parliament. I would like to know what is the position with regard to that working party. Is it still in operation? Is it still seriously looking at the problems of unemployment among Aborigines, or is it saying: 'Let us wait until something drastic happens before we go ahead with it'? There is tremendous unemployment among Aborigines in Western Australia. I speak of Western Australia so often because the people of Western Australia elected me to represent them in this place. Be they black or white, they cast their vote, and the majority of them cast their vote in my favour, and that is why I am here. So I am concerned when any member of my constituency finds himself or herself in the situation where no employment is available for them. This applies a great deal in the north-west of Western Australia and in the gold fields areas where, in spite of our racial discrimination legislation, Aboriginals still seem to be third and fourth class citizens. 
I would like the Minister to explain at some stage what will happen in relation to the housing situation and the discrimination that occurs in the hotels. I think that the latter situation is adequately covered by the racial discrimination legislation which is not being put into effect. Will the Minister advise the Senate what is happening or what has happened to the working party report on the unemployment situation? 
I rise on this subject this evening because two or three weeks ago I received an invitation to attend a wreath laying ceremony to honour Australian war dead. I was honoured to attend the very moving ceremony yesterday at which a wreath was laid by a man who had been captured by the Japanese in East Timor. I attended primarily to commemorate the deaths of Australian servicemen. At the ceremony mention was made by  Mr Uren  of the gallant East Timorese who had assisted servicemen in their country during the war against the Japanese. Mention was made also of the 5 journalists who gave their lives last year and of the East Timorese who are suffering hardship in their own country following the invasion by the Indonesians. I did not feel ashamed to take part in that ceremony. I felt proud to be there and felt that more people should have been there. 
If  Senator Harradine  would like a complete list of people who attended I would be only too happy to provide him with it. I am a little sorry that the newspapers did not see fit to include us all in their report. I was there and I felt that I was reasonably prominent. I was willing to have my photograph taken. If  Senator Harradine  would like it, I could arrange a repeat of that ceremony for this time next year and he can then get up on the adjournment debate with his vilifications and accusations against the Board of Trustees of the War Memorial, and against people who went there yesterday with a genuine desire to express their appreciation in a number of ways. They were showing their appreciation to the families of the men who died in the Second World War, to the families of the journalists who died 14 months ago and to the families of the East Timorese who are suffering now after the invasion by Indonesia. 
As I said, I did not feel any sense of shame. I feel no sense of shame now in standing here and admitting that I was in attendance at that ceremony. My colleagues who were also there feel no sense of shame. The only one who has any cause at all to feel ashamed of his actions is  Senator Harradine  for getting up and speaking as he did in the adjournment debate tonight. I am ashamed to say that he is a member of this Senate of which I am also a member. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. How many out of school child and vacation care centres are being funded in Western Australia for the coming summer holiday period? How many applications have been received from Western Australia for total or partial funding? What is the total amount of money that this Government is contributing to vacation care facilities for children in Western Australia during the Christmas break? 
-I present the following petition from 10 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That grave concern is expressed about the Government's intention to dismantle the Australian Legal Aid Office which is providing efficient, readily available legal aid to all communities in Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will undertake a full national inquiry as proposed in 1975 by the present Attorney-General, as a matter of urgency. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct this question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and/or the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Will the Minister confirm that the Australian immigration office in the United Kingdom advertised during midJanuary 1977 for potential migrants in the skilled trades? Is the Minister aware of a great deal of unrest amongst the unemployed migrants at the Graylands hostel in Western Australia, a great number of whom feel that they were conned into migrating virtually under false pretences by over anxious recruiters in the United Kingdom? Will the Minister explain how it is intended to place any new migrants - 
-It is a 3-part question. Will the Minister explain how it is intended to place any new migrants who may apply in response to the latest advertisement into the work force in Australia, being mindful of the skilled worker job vacancies and applicants at the end of December 1976 according to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations? Because there are so many people - 
-As it is obvious that there are so many people in this chamber who do not read newspapers and the figures that apply to this question, may I quote that the figures show that there are - 
No one could possibly deny the importance to the future of Australia of the continued development of the resources of the Pilbara area in Western Australia and the North- West Shelf. This urgency motion has been put before the chamber 3 days before a most important election for the people of Western Australia. It has been brought on purely and simply as a ploy to get the Premier of Western Australia off the hook because there will be an election next Saturday. There have been leaked letters and of course one must ask: Who would benefit from the leaking of those letters? The answer must come back: The Premier of the State would.  Sir Charles  Court promised things would be done when he was elected in 1974 and they have not been done, particularly with regard to the development of the north-west. 
It is all very well for the State Government now in its magnificent half page advertisements to state that there will be $ 1,900m worth of development in the north-west over the next few years, and I have no doubt that there will be. But these are basically the same promises that were made 3 years ago. The Premier could not fulfil them then and he cannot fulfil them now. Those figures being quoted in Western Australia are purely and simply projections from the various companies now operating of what they will be doing in the next 5 years, and from the companies who intend to commence operations within the next 5 years. I believe that the people of Western Australia are alert enough to realise that it is not a Government operation. They know they were hoodwinked in 1974; they will not be hoodwinked once again. 
It is important when we are debating such a subject that honourable senators opposite recognise that this importance that they speak of in this urgency debate is to the whole of Australia, not just to Western Australia. We have not seceded yet.  Mr Hancock  may have wanted to, but I can assure, honourable senators that the majority of people in Western Australia are happy to remain as part of the nation. We are the greatest part, both in geographical proportions and in regard to the mineral deposits that the State has. The North- West Shelf has the largest gas reserves in Australia. The figures for 1976 are impressive. In fact, I shall cite them for the benefit of those honourable senators who are not aware of just how much we have in Western Australia. We have 66.82 1 million cubic metres of liquid natural gas and 410.1 129 billion cubic metres of gas of which only a maximum of 70 per cent can be recovered. In view of the world's diminishing energy resources, particularly of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons, the Northwest Shelf becomes even more important. Australia has very large reserves of coal and uranium but we are relatively depleted in oil and natural gas. For this reason, and in the light of the impending energy crunch, Australia must hasten to explore and to develop as much of its oil and gas reserves as possible, and these reserves must be used efficiently and in Australia's long term interests. 
The idea of flogging off the farm quickly for a few fast bucks no longer applies in Australia and any party or any government that attempts to do this is disgraceful. This is what  Sir Charles  Court is endeavouring to do. In his policy speech he did not make any mention at all of the social aspects that go with development, not only of the Northwest Shelf but also of other areas of the northwest of Western Australia.  Senator Chaney  spoke of the demands of people in Western Australia for a continuance and an expansion of various services, and for additional services in Western Australia. I believe that taxpayers everywhere are entitled to get some return from the Government for the high taxes they pay. Nowhere do they get less for their tax money than in some of the company towns that operate in the north-west of Western Australia. I stress the words 'some company towns' because they do not all have the same specific problems. However, there are a number of company towns where there are specific demands for increased television services, telephone services and education services and for the maintenance and creation of roads. 
One company town where there are definite and specific problems, of course, is Koolan Island. I had the rather doubtful pleasure of visiting Koolan Island only last week. It is not only isolated; it has an insular isolation where people receive virtually no benefits from their taxation, which is extremely high, because as a general rule they work a 6 day week and some times a 12 hour day. They get no benefits from the Government and in a lot of cases they get very little from the company. Great social problems exist and these will be magnified when neither government nor company does the things which are necessary to enable stable population to exist in extremely difficult areas, 
Let me assure anybody who wants to visit Koolan Island to see the conditions under which the people live that difficulties may arise. If that person belonged to the Liberal Party of Australia, the company may go out of its way to make sure that all the facilities are available, but I found it extremely difficult to get around Koolan Island. Suddenly, on the day I arrived, 7 vehicles belonging to the company were unserviceable. The company controls who will visit the island. But when a factory inspector or health inspector visits the island, the company officers make a telephone call to the men who are working on the day to tell them to keep down the dust, the noise or something of that nature because the inspectors are on the island. The company does not want inspectors to see the conditions under which the people have to work and live. 
Of course, the people on the island are there for 1 1 months of the year. I was there for 24 hours and was rather pleased that was all the time I had to spend there. There is one telephone line connecting the people with the mainland. Incidentally, that line is not in good condition. It is generally extremely difficult to make oneself heard when telephoning from the island over a protracted period- that is, when the company allows its employees to use the telephone. The people are dependent entirely on the company for transport to and from the island. It is not unusual for families to find when they arrive at Derby that there is room on the aircraft, which is under charier to the company, for the husband but not for the wife and family. Such people may be returning from their annual leave. But the wife and family may need to stay an extra day in Derby while the husband is returned to work because he is required on duty. 
I spoke about the lack of transport on the island. It is all company transport. No private vehicles are allowed. This is a determination by the company alone. There is no access for the people there to beaches. Four-wheel drive vehicles are required to reach them. I understand that it is approximately 10 kilometres to a beach where children can swim. There are no buses to get the children to kindergarten. On the way back from the kindergarten at 1 1 o'clock in the morning in extreme tropical conditions the children pass a pool. I wonder when I look at the profit made by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and its subsidiary companies last year, a profit which amounted to only $71m, why it has not been found necessary or essential to provide a lock for the pool gate to ensure that none of these 3Vi or 4 year old children drown. 
The company cares so much for its employees in .these areas in the north-west that in a tropical area like Koolan Island it has not even provided flyscreens on the houses in which the people live. Children fall out of the windows. I understand that it is difficult to find a child who has not fallen out of the window. There are no gardens because the land around the houses was never levelled. There are no ovals for the kids to kick a football around. There is no community hall. In fact, there are no community facilities at all. The only entertainment area is a licensed club. Even the apprentices gravitate there because of the lack of community facilities for them. I understand that one 3-year apprentice was discharged from the island at the end of his third year because by then he was almost a confirmed alcoholic. That is a marvellous record for a company as large as BHP. It does not surprise me that the labour turnover is in the vicinity of 58 per cent. These are the social aspects that I see when we talk about development of the north-west and the development of the North- West Shelf. We can look at places like Karratha, Port Hedland and Mount Tom Price. Of course, there are complaints about the lack of facilities, about the lack of television services and about the high prices. Families are being broken up because young people have to go away even to attend high school. They then return to find that there are no jobs available for them with the company; so they have to go away again to live in the cities or in larger country areas and they create more social problems in those areas again. 
Let me deal with prices. Western Australia has the unenviable record of being the State most consistently on top of the 6 States per capita figure in the consumer price index figures. That is a wonderful record for  Sir Charles  Court to put before the people when he stands before them on Saturday and says: 'Give me your No. 1 vote, please'. As I mentioned when  Senator Thomas  was speaking,  Mr Grayden  said only last week when there was a 40 per cent increase in the unemployment rate in Western Australia that the result was pleasing. I am sure that it is pleasing for him. It is not so pleasing for those people who find themselves unemployed. We have to be concerned about the social aspects just as we have to be concerned about the continuance of the development of the North- West Shelf. Let me remind honourable senators of the terms of this matter of urgency which was brought before the Senate in such haste by the Government today. It states: 
The importance to the future of Australia of the continued development of the resources of the Pilbara area of Western Australia and the North- West Shelf. 
I believe that the people of Western Australia will decide on Saturday whether they want development for development's sake the same way as they have had it over the last 3 years or whether, in fact, they want development under a government which is concerned about people and about the social implications of development being carried out too rapidly without the ancillary services being available for them. I think we will find in Western Australia that we will have a State Labor government returned by a magnificent majority. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. It is necessary for me to give a brief background to the matter. The Western Australian Tertiary Education Commission agreed to accredit the undergraduate course in nursing at bachelor degree level and in December last year the Australia Council on Awards in Advanced Education accepted for registration a Bachelor of Applied Science (nursing course). I have been informed that now the Commission on Advanced Education is not prepared to fund the course at degree level. Is this so? What are the reasons for that decision having been made? Is it intended to introduce funding at a later date? 
Tonight I want to discuss the rather ridiculous situation which developed in Parliament House last Thursday night when the whole place was suddenly plunged into darkness. I accept the fact that the matter was referred to at question time this morning. I acknowledge the reply which you gave,  Mr President,  that action was already being taken to ensure that the situation did not occur again. But I believe that the matter goes much deeper than that. I refer to the personal safety of the people inside the Parliament at the time the incident happened. I do not so much mean the personal safety of members of Parliament. That is an inbuilt security risk which one takes when one holds public office. I refer to the hundreds of people who visit Parliament and also, of course, the people who work here. 
I want honourable senators to recognise what could have happened had that situation occurred on a night when the Budget was being brought down and when the public galleries are packed with people. They have every right to be here. This is the House of the Parliament of Australia and the people of Australia are quite entitled to be here. They are particularly entitled to be here at Budget time to find out what they will get or what they will not get. 
I do not believe it is right that they be placed in a situation of perhaps extreme danger, not only to themselves but also to other people. I ask honourable senators to imagine, for instance, a situation of panic in the upper galleries which are reserved for the public. It takes only one person to create panic. A distressing situation in such an atmosphere could occasion injury, not only to the people involved but also to innocent people who are quite prepared to sit and wait for somebody to do something to rectify the situation. I believe that people who come to visit Parliament House are entitled to some sort of protection. I do not believe that anybody who was visiting Parliament House last Thursday night was given that protection. I believe that the officers of the Parliament have to be concerned. They should ensure that this is a matter of urgency and that we will not be placed in such a situation again. 
While I am talking about protection I turn specifically to the protection of members of Parliament. I query just what protection members of Parliament have against people who invade our privacy, people who tap our telephones and people who listen to our conversations. The telephone in my office in Parliament House- I see much to the amazement of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)has  been bugged for some 2 years. This situation has been reported to a succession of AttorneysGeneral. It has been reported to a Prime Minister. In fact, in December 1975 I received a reply from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  informing me that he would investigate the matter. He has not, of course, or if he has done so he has certainly not advised me of the outcome. I am quite sure that I am not the only one who has a tap on the telephone. I have heard nothing from him since and I do not believe that I am likely to hear unless the Prime Minister feels that now that I have aired this matter publicly it is time that he actually investigated the situation. 
If someone derives pleasure from listening to my conversations, then I suppose that that is a problem which he should discuss only with his psychiatrist. I simply make the point that whoever is bugging me- a number of people bug me- does not even pay me the courtesy of using a clean tape head. The noise from the tape is quite obvious on my telephone. I am a trained telephonist. I am not a hysterical female who suddenly and off the top of her head decides that she must get in on the public debate which is taking place about the tapping of telephones. I want to know what is being done, what can be done and what should be done for the protection and the maintenance of privacy of members of Parliament inside Parliament House. I believe that the tapping of my telephone is an invasion of my privacy. I believe that it is also an invasion of my constituents' privacy. I have telephone contact with them on a number of occasions. 
I have been finding the situation with bugged telephones quite interesting over the past tew weeks. I am sure that all of us have, especially now that the new building for the Department of Defence has been found to be bugged. I am not sure whether they have bugs or whether they are bugging the people who are bugging the people who are bugging. That is something for the Minister to decide. I believe that this is not only a matter for the Prime Minister but also for the executive officers of the Parliament. They should ensure that members of Parliament have their privacy maintained at the time they are inside Parliament House. They should ensure that our constituents also have their privacy maintained. About a week ago in Western Australiaprobably a little earlier in the eastern States because we seem to be a week behind with most of the current affairs programs- members of the telecommunications union expressed some concern on television that they were the people who had to apply the bugging apparatus. 
I was speaking a little earlier about conditions which apply in Parliament House. I shall continue along those lines for just a few minutes. I was pleased that  Senator McLaren  preceded me in this debate tonight because I want to refer to another matter which comes under the jurisdiction of the Joint House Department. 
On the lower ground floor, immediately opposite the bookshop, there is a small room. I am not sure of its official title,  Senator Withers,  but it is an extremely small room. It contains a number of lockers. It is used as a change room by the Senate attendants. It is used as a tea room by the attendants and by members of the post office. I only hope that they do not all decide to use the room at the same time. If they did the foundations of Parliament House would be in jeopardy. It is ludicrous that in this day and age and in this Parliament we appear not to be able to provide the people who work here 48 weeks or 49 weeks of the year with reasonable working conditions. 
I invite any honourable senator who feels so inclined- I am quite sure that I do this with the permission of the attendants concerned- to make his or her way downstairs and inspect the situation. I think the attendants will be only too happy to think that honourable senators are taking an interest in them. It is because of their interest that I raise this matter tonight. They are interested not only in their own working conditions but also in the conditions which apply to the people I spoke about earlier, namely the people who visit this Parliament. I will read to the Senate a list of matters which have been referred through the Housekeeper to the Joint House Department by some of the concerned attendants. 
It is necessary for me to explain that the air conditioning- if that is what one could call it, because I certainly would not say that we have adequate air conditioning throughout Parliament House- apparently works only during the week. It is not turned on at the weekend. No air conditioning operates at weekends even when the outside temperatures are above normal. Of course, the reverse is the case in winter when the whole place becomes an ice box. I read from a copy of the notice which went to the secretary of the Joint House Department through the Housekeeper. I understand that the Department had advised that nothing can be done. The notice states: 
PUBLIC TOURS: AIR CONDITIONING 
On 12 February this year, two tours were affected by ladies overcome by the heat and lack of air in the Public Galleries. They had to be assisted from the Chambers. I have had numerous complaints which have been directed to Joint House. 
Mr S. Elgood 18 February 1977: Pregnant woman in distress and was taken from the Gallery by ner husband. 
MrS.Elgood 
I am referring to the distress. Her pregnancy is her own problem, surely. But we have a problem about the distress and, as responsible members of Parliament we should have the concern of a pregnant woman uppermost in our minds. The notice continues: 15 January 1977: Saturday afternoon, I was abused by several ladies because I had not kept the Chamber cool enough (House of Representatives). They were advised to write to Secretary, Joint House. 
Mr E. Goodil 11 and 12 February 1977: Saturday and Sunday. Both days two tours had to be cancelled when several people asked to leave the House of Representatives because of the heat. 

 Mr J. Robins 
During the latter days of January and February, we have experienced usual hot summer weather. 
During my Saturday duty, I cannot fail to notice the frequent comment by visitors of the enjoyment they derived from the tour, uncomfortable as it was because of the lack of air cooling. This is a prevalent comment by visitors and attention is drawn to it because there must surely be a way to remedy this problem. 
Mr B. R. Hartas 
Complaints are frequent every summer. People are not in such distress as those mentioned in these specific cases, but are sufficiently uncomfortable to abuse the attendants conducting the tours. There has never been a reliable system of air conditioning public galleries when the House is not sitting. The only possible assistance is from a blower arrangement which blows hot air from one part of the chamber to the other in a futile effort to reduce the temperature. At the same time the offices in the House of Representatives, the Senate, the Library and the Joint House Department are always cool and pleasant because air conditioning continues night and day and even at weekends when all the offices are empty. I find this very hard to believe because I do not think that the air conditioning works in my office anyway. The only people in the building, the visitors and attendants, have no air conditioning anywhere. It would seem to be a fair thing for some of that cool air lavished upon the deserted offices to be diverted to overheated visitors, the expense involved being minimised by reducing the cost of returning the hot chambers to normal temperatures after the weekend. An alternative, if nothing can be done, is to cancel tours when the galleries exceed working temperatures. 
I do not believe that people these days should be working in those conditions. I do not believe that members of the Australian public who visit Parliament House should be subjected to those conditions either. I was very pleased to see that even the members of the Prime Minister's staff have to work under extremely difficult conditions, if I am to believe the report in the  National Times  of 2 1 February. Under the title Too hot to handle' the following appears: 
Life was apparently not meant to be easy for Malcolm Fraser's public relations staff. They work out of a small office on the third floor of Parliament House. 
The office, under a corrugated iron roof, is not air conditioned. While temperatures in Canberra hit the mid 30s last week, the Prime Minister's staff were sweating it out at 40 deg. C. Their leader never goes up there. 
Perhaps that is one of the problems; we never go to other places in Parliament House to see what the working conditions of the people here are. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to a publication called  Australian Fisheries  which is put out under the auspices of the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Ian  Sinclair. I have the issue for February 1977 which contains 68 pages, plus cover. It has a total editorial content of 3 1 pages and an advertising content of 40 pages. It gives a great deal of information regarding the fish that are available around the Australian coast. Because the fishing industry and I are concerned because overseas companies and overseas ships are coming into Australian waters and fishing out our sea areas, I ask whether the Minister will advise how this publication is distributed, to whom it is distributed, and at what price it is made available. Is it distributed to overseas fishing companies? What advertising rates are charged? Is tax paid on the publication because of the imbalance between the editorial and advertising content? 
I advise the Senate tonight that the executive of the parliamentary group of Amnesty International met earlier today to discuss the sending of a petition to  President  Carter of the United States of America. The meeting was occasioned because of reports in newspapers and personal reports that we had received following Jim Dunn's visit to Portugal to discuss the situation as it exists in East Timor. It is a non-party political petition. It has been circulated during the evening throughout the Senate to both sides of the House, as it has been circulated in the other place on both sides of the House. Some honourable senators will have missed signing of the petition who may want to associate themselves with it and we shall be happy to have them do so. It was determined that we should send the petition to  President  Carter because of his outspoken attitude towards the violent changes that are taking place throughout the world. 
Changes are occurring and we are conscious that they are occurring, but change does not have to be achieved through violence. Change can and should be achieved, where possible through peaceful means. This is not always possible. I personally regret that as I know most honourable senators do. Other countries have seen fit to resort to violence in order to effect these changes. We heard  Senator Bonner, Senator Rae  and a number of other senators speak in the adjournment debate last night on what has taken place in Uganda. That is indeed an important subject. We have heard other speakers many times speak on various countries- Chile, Angola and, of course, the changes that have taken place in East Timor not through peaceful means but once again through violence- violence by Indonesia against a people who had no way of defending themselves against aggression. Of course we have to be concerned when violence of that magnitude occurs in our own region. 
When it happens to Australians, as it happened to the Australian journalists who went on assignments for their organisations to bring to the people of the world the truth about what was happening in East Timor, we have to express our concern that there are people still living in East Timor who are being denied basic human rights. We all have to accept our responsibilities where possible to ensure that change takes place without violence, that it takes place for the good of all the people involved. I should like to read firstly the petition that we intend presenting to the  President  of the United States and then a number of paragraphs from his inaugural address on 20 January which we find most pertinent to this petition. The petition reads: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the fact that the Indonesian Government has decided to have a general election in the near future. In an endeavour to ensure that the people living in village situations do not come into contact with foreigners, the Government has decreed that all foreign personnel, including those working on aid programs, will be confined to city areas. I ask: In view of the Indonesian Government's decision, what action will be taken to recall all Australian personnel working on aid programs outside city areas whose time will  Become  completely unproductive until after the elections are held? 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate requests the Government to undertake an immediate investigation into food prices, including: 
a ) wholesaler 's markups; 
b) the correlation of production costs to retail prices; 
the disparity between prices paid to primary producers and the end cost to the consumer, particularly in relation to meat, dairy produce and vegetables; and 
the cost of freight applied to foodstuffs outside the metropolitan areas. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Will the Minister give details of the amount of funding given by past federal governments to the National Aboriginal Council for Alcoholism and Drug Abuse, commonly known as NACADA? Because of concern in the community in the area of alcoholism and drug abuse, will the Minister tell the Senate the reasons why future funding will no longer be granted? Will the Minister also establish whether funding will be made available for the Abercrombie project and similar projects designed to assist Aborigines who have problems with alcoholism and/or drug abuse. 
-I present the following petition from 234 citizens: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That grave concern is expressed about the Government's intention to dismantle the Australian Legal Aid Office which is providing efficient, readily available legal aid to all communities in Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will undertake a full national inquiry as proposed in 1975 by the present Attorney-General, as a matter of urgency. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether it is true that 6 sea-going vessels are being given as aid to Indonesia by the Australian Government? In view of the events in East Timor and the Indonesian Government's audacious attitude to Australia's ambassador in Indonesia, will the Minister reconsider the decision to provide these vessels and any other form of aid to that country, at least until there is a recognition of basic human rights towards the Timorese by Indonesia? 
I present the following petition from 44 citizens: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That grave concern is expressed about the Government's intention to dismantle the Australian Legal Aid Office which is providing efficient, readily available legal aid to all communities in Australia. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government will undertake a full national inquiry as proposed in 1975 by the present Attorney-General, as a matter of urgency. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I am sure the Minister is well aware of the distress caused in both black and white communities by the consumption of alcohol and particularly methylated spirits. Will the Minister give serious consideration to the suggestion that the application of an emetic chemical to methylated spirits, which will not detract from its commercial properties but which will deter consumption, should apply in Australia as I understand is already being done in some other countries which recognise that they have similar problems? 
I am very pleased to be following  Senator Bonner  in this debate because I was interested to hear what an Aboriginal senator would have to say about this urgency motion which has been moved against the Government for its failure to honour the election promises made to the Aboriginal people prior to the December 1975 election. We know of the telegram that was sent out by the then Opposition spokesman on Aboriginal affairs,  Mr Ellicott,  and his avowal that there would be no cuts in programs for Aborigines.  Senator Bonner  was able to establish for us that not only were there cuts but also there was no provision for inflation and increasing costs. Then he said a very interesting thing. He said: 'We are spending the money in the form of inquiries'. The Aboriginal people who are without housing, without adequate health facilities, without proper employment opportunities and without proper education facilities will be very pleased to know that the Government is concerned enough to hold inquiries. We have had too many inquiries into Aboriginal affairs already. The only people who are not being involved in those inquiries are the Aborigines themselves. 

 Senator Bonner said that, of course, the Aboriginal people- 'my people', I think he called them- must be subjected to the same financial restrictions to which the rest of the country is subjected. Of course they must. We must all acknowledge that Australia is among a number of countries which are going through severe financial and economic stresses and strains at this time. But is that any reason for us simply to say that one section of the community should suffer?  Senator Bonner,  if you really must leave the Senate chamber, I will excuse you, but I think that I will have some interesting things to say which you might like to hear, even if it is only from your office. We are all subject to financial restrictions. But there is no reason why honourable senators sitting in the Parliament and Government supporters in particular should say Your skin is black; you will take second place to the people whose skin happens to be white'. 
Last week I raised a question in the Senate about the funding for an organisation known as NACALDA-the National Aboriginal Campaign Against Alcoholism and Drug Abuse. In 1973-74, $20,000 was made available for an Aboriginal health workshop. It was determined by Aborigines and for Aborigines that this money would be spent on getting together for a meeting people who were concernd about Aboriginal alcoholism and Aboriginal drug abuse. The meeting eventually took place in May 1974 and was opened by the honourable  Mr. Viner,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. He said then that he gave support for this concept of setting up a coordinating body getting all the Aboriginal programs in one big basket. He was pleased that it had been organised and planned entirely by the Aborigines for the Aborigines. Then a little later he said: 
The experts will find solutions without consideration for the Aboriginal ethnic cultures. So it is good that in actual fact that you people are doing it for you people. 
What has happened since then? In May 1976 the workshop was held and Aboriginal people from all over Australia concerned about Aboriginal alcoholism and drug abuse met. It was determined that there certain actions should take place and that money was required for them to be able to continue their program. I know a number of people in this field who work with alcoholics in the Aboriginal area. They are generally reformed alcoholic Aborigines themselves. For instance, Arnold Franks from Western Australia is working in an entirely voluntary capacity. He travels all over the State of Western Australia talking to Aborigines about the problems of alcoholism. Where possible, he endeavours to dry them out. He has them with him in his own home. He is not paid for this work. He gets no money from the Government for doing it. He receives no assistance from the Government either because I understand that his name is still on the waiting list for a State Housing Commission home. I refer also to people like Harold Hunt who works with the Aboriginal medical service in New South Wales and Chicka Dixon. They are both reformed Aboriginal alcoholics who do a tremendous amount of work in the Aboriginal communities working amongst Aboriginal alcoholics. Their only problem is that they do not have any money because this Government has not seen fit to continue the funding- the $20,000- that was given for a workshop in 1973-74. NACALDA was formed at that workshop meeting and no further finance has become available since.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I beg your pardon. I tell a slight lie there. An amount of $5,500 was expended to hold an executive meeting in Canberra. Will someone tell me why the executive meeting has to be held in Canberra? Where are the greatest number of Aborigines situated? They are not in Canberra. 
But where is the greatest bureaucracy? That is in Canberra. So, of course, if we are to set up an executive of this type it will have to be set up in Canberra without communication with the people who need it most- the Aboriginal people in New South Wales, Queensland, the Northern Territory, Western Australia, South Australia, Victoria and Tasmania- everywhere but in the Australian Capital Territory. But this is where the executive will be established. It is because here in Canberra we have the European bureaucracy who can dictate to the Aborigines working in the alcoholism field what they should do, what their priorities should be and where they should be heading. That is one area in which the Government has failed to follow through on a project that was already established in the 1973-74 Budget. What has happened since then?  Senator Bonner  should know because he has been in touch with representatives of the Aboriginal medical service on odd occasions. 
I think that probably he has gone home. Aborigines have been listening to the debate this afternoon. Let me assure you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that there are a number of Aborigines who have been advised that  Senator Bonner  would be speaking in the debate today. They would not be very happy about the performance of the only Aboriginal representative in the Federal Parliament. Following the workshop, a report was forwarded to  Mr Viner  and on 27 September 1976 there was an acknowledgement of a letter forwarded by  Mr Hunt  on 15 September. On 14 October  Mr Hunt  still had not heard anything more. Then, on 2 November, he received an acknowledgement of the receipt of the submission and constitution and on 2 1 January this year he received a reply from the Minister,  Mr Viner,  in which he expressed his concern and said that he would make sure there was an inquiry to see which Department should be involved. He stated also that all of the communities- the Aboriginal and European communities- which were working in the alcohol and drug abuse area should establish State advisory committees. He said that if further assessment was needed, finance would be available. He did not say that if further assistance was needed the funds would be available. He said further assessment'. Once again, we are back to this business of having an inquiry into an inquiry into an inquiry and still nothing gets done for the Aboriginal people themselves. 
On 7 May 1 976  Senator Bonner  sent an urgent telegram to the people who had convened this meeting saying that he urgently required documentation and copies of resolutions. He wanted to know what the activities would be in the future because he intended keeping a very strict eye on what was happening. The information was forwarded to him. On 3 November  Mr Hunt  wrote to him and mentioned the lack of finance. On 4 February this year he spoke to  Senator Bonner  who promised that he would communicate with  Mr Hunt  within 2 weeks. It is now a long time since 4 February or 18 February and still  Mr Hunt  has not heard from  Senator Bonner.  This is because  Senator Bonner  has nothing to communicate to the Aborigines. He has forgotten what it is like to be in the community. He has forgotten what it is like to be an alcoholic or a drug abuser or to be a member of the family of those people. He has forgotten what it is like to be unemployed. He has forgotten what it is like to be without health facility services. I am very pleased that  Senator Bonner  has seen fit to come back into the Senate chamber. He has forgotten what it is like to be uneducated when everybody else around him is educated. He has forgotten a great number of these things. He has probably forgotten that on 4 February this year he promised to communicate with one  Mr Harold  Hunt of the Aboriginal medical service in Sydney within 2 weeks and still has not done so. 
Out of the $5,500 that was allocated for the executive conference, I understand that there is still a balance of some $109 that the working party is permitted to use at its discretion. Research teams have been coming up with solutions that have been known to the Aborigines for the last 30 years. All they want is the opportunity to put them into practice. They will not be able to do that under this Government. This is the Government which said that there will be no cutbacks in Aboriginal welfare programs, employment, housing or health and which immediately sliced $33m off the Budget. As  Senator Bonner  said earlier, it gave back $25m leaving a deficit of $8m. But it did so without any allowance whatsoever for inflation or increased costs. Thirty to forty Aborigines who meet together in Sydney at this time need immediate hospitalisation because of the effects of alcoholism. There are others who are dying in empty houses. Aborigines are dying under trees and on the banks of rivers not only in New South Wales but also in Western Australia because of the effects of alcoholism. Honourable senators will remember that only this morning I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether consideration would be given to the application of an emetic chemical to methylated  spirits in an endeavour to stop not only black people but also white people from consuming this terrible product. The Minister said that she would pass the matter on to her colleague and trust that something would be done.  I  hope that something will be done. There are areas where work should already be taking place. Aborigines know what they want. They know how to put what they want into effect for the greatest benefit of their people. Yet these people are not even being asked. These people are being sidestepped because the Europeans have the knowledge; the Europeans know how to set up an inquiry and they know how to inquire into further inquiries. 
As an example of how this Government has failed to recognise the needs of the Aborigines, perhaps the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs will provide an answer to a question that has been bothering me for some time. Until 3 months ago an office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs was located at Narrogin in Western Australia. For some reason which is inexplicable to me-  I  can only assume that the people who are managing the Department of Aboriginal Affairs want as little communication with the Aborigines as possiblethe office has been moved from Narrogin, which has a high concentration of Aborigines and part-Aborigines in the immediate vicinity and many more in the outer vicinity, to Bunbury which has relatively few Aborigines. Aborigines tend to stay away from the cities because they recognise that people will not allow them to forget that they are uneducated and will not allow them to move freely without insult. We are still a very racist country. We suddenly find that the office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs which was set up in Narrogin and which was doing a tremendous volume of work has been moved to an isolated area where the Aborigines themselves will have no further communication. 
As time is moving on,  I  want finally to refer briefly to Oombulgurri- the Forrest River Reserve in the north of Western Australiawhere diamonds have been located.  I  have mentioned this before. The Liberal State Government in Western Australia has opened up a section of the Mining Act and called tenders for the mining of the diamonds. The fact that the Aborigines have entered into a contract with the mining organisation which would have provided them with royalties from the sale and mining of the diamonds, would have allowed them to determine which roads and how many roads would be put on their property and other things of this sort was of no consequence to the State Liberal Government. The Government said: Oh, no. We have section 276 of the Mining Act here and we will now open up the area to anybody who has a miner's right'. This is exactly what has been done. The Aborigines at the Forest River Reserve will get nothing out of the diamonds that have been found at Oombulgurri because the State Government has determined that the large organisation can have the benefit of the diamonds and the Aborigines once again can go without. 
We hear the common cries from the Government about financial restrictions and the economic situation in Australia and throughout the world. The Government is not moving in any positive area to allow the Aborigines to determine for themselves what should be done in their best interests. The Europeans are sitting back and saying to the Aboriginal people: 'This is what should be done. We know how to set up an inquiry. We know how to provide the answers. We are the ones who will make determinations on behalf of you people'. The Aborigines will not stand for it any longer. They will remember it. They fully support as  I  do the motion that has been moved this afternoon by my  Deputy  Leader,  Senator Keeffe. 

 Senator BONNER (  Queensland  )-I  seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Under the Standing Orders  Senator Bonner  has the right to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  An honourable senator has the right to make a personal explanation after the previous  speaker  has concluded his remarks. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator Bonner,  Senator Keeffe  asked you to retract the remarks which could be regarded as derogatory. Will you withdraw the remark that  Senator Keeffe  tried to prevent you from making a personal explanation? 

 Senator COLEMAN (Western Australia)-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I have not deliberately distorted the truth as has been claimed by  Senator Bonner.  At a quarter past four this afternoon I received information on my telephone from  Mr Harold  Hunt. He stated that on 7 May 1976 he received a telegram from  Senator Bonner  stating that he urgently required documents and resolutions from the meeting.  Mr Harold  Hunt also stated that on 4 February he spoke to  Senator Bonner  and that  Senator Bonner  at that time promised to communicate within 2 weeks- that would be by 18 February. He has not heard from  Senator Bonner  since. I made that statement during my speech. The information was given to me on the telephone at quarter past four this afternoon. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- On what point do you rise? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Are you rising on a point of order? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- If you are to continue- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Bonner, you will have to seek leave. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Bonner, you will have to seek leave of the Senate to make a personal explanation. Do you seek leave? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Georges, I take it you are raising a point of order and not opposing leave? 
A  Senator who  has spoken to a Question may again be heard, to explain himself in regard to some material part of his speech which has been misquoted or misunderstood, but shall not introduce any new matter, or interrupt any  Senator in  possession of the Chair . . . 
The point of order I am raising is that a senator can rise to make an explanation only concerning some part of his speech which has been misquoted by a subsequent senator. It is not a matter of a senator rising to his feet to say that another senator has misrepresented him on some material which he himself has not presented to the Senate. I would like a ruling on this because otherwise we shall get ourselves into a bind with speakers rising quickly to their feet to say that they have been misrepresented by the previous  speaker.  If that device is available to the Senate we on this side will most certainly use it, but I do not think it is available to the Senate. A personal explanation must concern a speech, or some misquoting of it, made by the honourable senator claiming to have been misrepresented. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Bonner rose and said that he had been misrepresented. Under standing order 410 he was entitled to rise. Following that,  Senator Coleman  sought leave and made a personal explanation in regard to a statement she made to the chamber this afternoon.  Senator Bonner  is in the process of seeking leave to make a personal explanation following the remarks of  Senator Coleman.  Could I say to the chamber that I do not want to see a regurgitation of the debate that has taken place. I will accept points of order for personal explanations but I will not have the debate brought up a second time.  Senator Bonner,  I ask you, if you seek leave and if leave is granted, to confine yourself to the personal explanation. Is leave granted to  Senator Bonner?  There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Bonner, I cannot recall from the chair that that implication was made about you. I say that in fairness to the honourable senator on the other side of the chamber. 

 Senator GUILFOYLE (Victoria-Minister for Social Security)-I seek leave to make a statement on this matter. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Coleman, there is some concern that there may have been an implication which I am sure you did not intend. Would you be prepared to withdraw the remark in case that implication could be read in such a way? 
It was never my intention to imply that any of those things applied to  Senator Bonner.  The remark was made in the context that  Senator Guilfoyle  has described. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Whilst members of the Senate are aware that the Minister acknowledges that he does not read newspapers, the reading of newspapers is nevertheless to other members of the Senate, especially those from the distant States, the only way of keeping in touch with what is happening to their constituents. I ask: Is the Minister aware, therefore, that when Western Australian members do not receive Tuesday night's newspaper, together with the newspapers for Wednesday morning and Wednesday night until Thursday afternoon, it limits the degree of responsibility they can accept on behalf of those constituents? What happened this week is not an isolated case but is now being accepted as the norm. Will the Minister therefore investigate the situation and, whatever the problem is, endeavour to find the solution? 

This morning I gave notice of a motion for a reference of the matter of food prices to a standing committee. In view of the motions just agreed to I seek leave of the Senate to withdraw General Business Notice of Motion No. 6 standing in my name. 
Notice- by leave- withdrawn. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce for inquiry and report: The investigation of food prices, including: 
wholesalers ' markups; 
b ) the correlation of production costs to retail prices; 
the disparity between prices paid to primary producers and the end cost to the consumer, particularly in relation to meat, dairy produce and vegetables; and 
the cost of freight applied to foodstuffs outside the metropolitan areas. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to an answer given by the Minister to a question asked by  Senator Cavanagh  on Tuesday, 26 April, in relation to staff shortages in the Department of Social Security. In her reply the Minister stated that she had had a letter from the member for Collie in Western Australia, the  Hon.  T. Jones, M.L.A., complaining that the Department in Perth will not service queries from members of Parliament or from the Minister. I have had 2 such complaints from members of State parliament, and I had direct evidence of the ban when endeavouring to obtain information on behalf of a constituent on Friday of last week. As the ban relates basically to overtime which has been caused by the staff ceilings applied to the Department, will the Minister advise what action is being taken to alleviate the situation in Western Australia? I am given to understand that the Department is understaffed by approximately 85 to 90 people in the training and relief areas at the moment. Although there has been an appropriation of some 29 people over the last few days, this will not make a great deal of difference in these areas. I am also given to understand that there was a further meeting in Perth this morning. Is the Minister in a position to advise what decisions or recommendations were made at that meeting? 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you as the executive officer of the Parliament.  I  remind the Senate of the questions already asked regarding the provision of adequate shelter for police officers who are charged with the responsibility for the security of Parliament House. As winter is almost upon us, with the overnight temperatures already low and we have no reason to believe that this year they will be any less severe than in other years, and as this Parliament has a responsibility for the health of the people involved,  I  ask: Is it true that sentry type boxes have already been constructed and are at present being held in store at Fyshwick? If so, will they be installed, and when? What is the total cost of manufacture and installation? If not, what provision will be made for the protection from the elements of these people during the winter months? What other avenues of surveillance are being investigated for the security of Parliament House? 
In supporting the amendment that has been moved by my colleague from New South Wales,  Senator Mulvihill,  I firstly cast the minds of honourable senators back to the NovemberDecember 1975 period when the election promises of this reactionary, conservative Government were being mouthed. Some of those that were most memorable at that time included the promises that 'we will reduce inflation and unemployment'; 'we will reduce government spending and the Budget deficit' and 'we will stop the around-the- world jaunts by Ministers'. It is now some 18 months since this Government illegally came to power in this country and it is fitting that we should look at the deplorable record of the Government in operation. 
Let us look at the Budget deficit. I will quote from a number of recent newspaper articles which indicate that the current deficit is now running at $l,000m more than the 1975-76 figure. I quote first from some sections of the  Australian  of 6 April 1977 under the heading 'Deficit blow for the Prime Minister. Government plans for tax cuts in jeopardy' by the political correspondent Peter Cross. He said: 
The latest estimate of this year's deficit is $400m ahead of the original projection and follows a year of rigorous costcutting by the Government. 
Government ministers and officials are now struggling with next year's Budget outline and trying to achieve a deficit of under $2,000m. 
The Budget deficits over past years have been: 1972-3 $709m; 1973-4$293m; 1 974-5 $2,567m; 1975-6 $3,585m. 
To achieve a deficit under $2,000m and to meet its tax reform commitments, the Government will have to cut projected spending by around $2,000m or raise indirect taxes or use a combination of both measures. 
Honourable senators know just what are some of the measures that the Government has decided to take in those areas. The  Financial Review  of 8 March this year had this to say: 
For the eight months to the end of February the Federal Government deficit was running at a massive $5, 532m. 
Despite the most earnest endeavours by the Government to cut back on outlays and the moral indignation that was generated about the size of the Labor Government's deficit - 
Honourable senators will, of course, remember that Opposition supporters, as they were then, castigated the Labor Government for its deficit when the Labor Government was introducing such social reforms as Australia had never seen before. This Government decided that it should cut back immediately and it has not been successful. The  Financial Review  goes on:   the latest figures bring home the difficulty the Fraser Administration is having in bringing the deficit to anything near the $2, 609m estimated in the Budget. 
The deficit at this time last year was $4,522.4m. 
It goes on to say: 
Total receipts for the latest eight months are $10,2 73.1m, while at the same time in 1 976 they were $9,406m. 
For the month of February alone - 
That is, February 1977-   . . the deficit notched up a further $7 1 5.2m. Total receipts for the month were $ 1 ,392.7m. 
The honourable senator on my left asks why. It certainly was not as a result of the actions of the Labor Government. That is all that the Government has been able to say since it came to office. It says only that it is all the fault of the Labor Government, the Labor Administration, that we had for 3 terrible years here in Australia. It says that unemployment was worse than it ever had been before and that the deficit was higher than it ever had been before. I am producing facts and figures to prove that the deficit is higher now than it ever has been before. These are not my figures. These are figures from recognised political correspondents and economists in their own right. From the  Australian  on 6 April 1977- 
-I am sorry; was it 30 April? 
I do not have the figure for the deficit at 30 April and I do not think that any of these newspapers have ever bothered to quote the figure that was available to 30 April. I would doubt that it was down very far. 

 - Senator, you will have your opportunity later. 

That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce for inquiry and report: The investigation of food prices, including- 
wholesalers' markups; 
the correlation of production costs to retail prices; 
the disparity between prices paid to primary producers and the end cost to the consumer, particularly in relation to meat, dairy produce and vegetables; and 
the cost of freight applied to foodstuffs outside the metropolitan areas. 
I now give my reasons for moving this motion. In April 1976 I spoke to a similarly worded motion requesting that the Government undertake an immediate investigation of food prices, and including three of the four parts of the motion I have just moved. When I spoke to the original motion I mentioned that I was more than a little disturbed that there was little information available and that the information which was available was extremely out of date. I am very sorry to have to report that the situation has not improved in any way. There is no more information available now than when I set out the details in my previous motion. That is, perhaps, one reason why I believe we need a Senate committee to make a thorough and ongoing analysis of this aspect and perhaps force the pace in getting some research done in what I consider to be a most important area. 
I had originally thought that a special committee of the Parliament would be the most appropriate body to investigate this matterperhaps a committee similar to the Joint Committee on Prices which was established in April 1973. On further reflection, because this Government decided as soon as it was elected not to reconstitute that committee and because I believe the topic is far too important to be given the slightest possibility of being sidestepped, I have amended my original motion to provide that the inquiry be carried out by the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce. It is my firm belief that this is the appropriate Committee to undertake the task. It is an ongoing Committee and it is more likely to be in a position to take on this study and see it through to completion. This could be done in a number of ways. The matters could be assessed in the order of priority which I have stated them or several aspects of the inquiry could be investigated at the same time. 
In the minds of many people there is a belief that wholesalers provide a small service to the public and that they are mainly unproductive. It also seems that in some areas they make large profits in relation to the amount of service and effort they provide. We often hear people say that the farmer is getting a rock bottom price for his product but that the consumer is paying exorbitant prices for that product. Farmers themselves make similar statements yet when we try to research this area we run into a stumbling block because of the lack of research information. It is an indictment of the research bodies in Australia that this field of research has been so neglected. I believe it is also an indictment of governments- both State and Federal- that this lack of research information is caused by one of 3 factors or a combination of all 3 factors. 
We can list those 3 factors fairly readily: First, the lack of government direction; secondly, the lack of funds; and, thirdly, the cut backs in government spending in the public sector. New South Wales is perhaps the only State- it is certainly the only State from which I have been able to get any comprehensive information- where the Department of Agriculture, through its Division of Marketing and Economics, puts out a comprehensive statement detailing the information which it sees as necessary for other departments, for other governments and for people. I intend shortly to seek leave to have some documents produced by that Department incorporated in  Hansard.  I should first like to read into the record some of the statistics. 
I refer to the first table which is entitled Department of Agriculture, Division of Marketing and Economics, Auction, Wholesale and Retail Prices for Lamb, Wholesale and Retail Margins, and Shares of the Consumer Dollar. Monthly, January 1971 -January 1976'. Unfortunately, I have only the table which relates to the period from January 1974 to December 1976. But we can see at a glance, for instance, in the case of lamb meat that in January 1974 the farmer- the person who takes a high capital risk, who puts the work into getting his sheep into market condition, in other words the person who should perhaps get most of the consumer's dollar- received 60.3 per cent of the consumer's dollar. The wholesaler received 7.4 per cent and the retailer received 32.3 per cent. If we examine the document further, we find that in December 1976, only 6 months ago, the figures had moved substantially. In that year the farmer, the same person who takes the high capital risk and who puts time and effort into getting the same sheep into market condition, now receives only 30.8 per cent of the consumer's dollar, whereas in January 1974 he received 60.3 per cent. The wholesaler now receives 22.4 per cent compared with 7.4 per cent originally and the retailer now receives 46.8 per cent compared with 32.3 per cent in January 1974.I repeat that these figures are only in relation to lamb meat in the State of New South Wales. 
In relation to beef meat the only figures that I have which are available are those for a different period and of course the variation is not so great. The period relates to January 1971 to December 1973. The variations available in that period for beef meat are not as detailed as those available for lamb meat, but in all fairness I feel I should cite those figures for both the beginning and at the end of that particular survey period. In January 1971 the farmer received 60.7 per cent of the consumers dollar and December 1973 he received 50.8 per cent. In January 1971 the wholesaler received 7.1 per cent and in December 1973 he received 12.1 per cent. In January 1 97 1 the retailer received 32.2 per cent and 29 per cent at the end of December 1973. This is not to say that the same variations in lamb meat prices would not have occurred in beef meat. The figures were not readily available to me. I find it extremely disturbing that I have to hunt around through State Government departments instead of being able to obtain these figures fairly readily. So that honourable senators can make their own comparisons I seek leave to incorporate those tables in  Hansard. 
-I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to a reply, given on her behalf by  Mr Hunt  in the other place on 24 May which appears in House of Representatives  Hansard  at page 1774, to a question asked by  Mr Whitlam  regarding the Australian Assistance Plan. I was concerned to find that amongst the replies from State Premiers no reply was listed from the Western Australian Premier  Sir Charles  Court. Is it true that no reply has been received from the Premier of Western Australia to letters sent by the Minister on 7 June and 1 October 1976? What action will be taken by the Minister to have an attitude to the Government's decision on the Australian Assistance Plan expressed by Western Australia? Would the Minister agree that this silence on the part of Premier Court is an indication of his nonsupport for Australian Assistance Plan decisions? Would she agree also that this is a further indication of a breakdown in Federal-State relations? 
In case anyone should imagine that we are in actual fact having a Western AustralianSouth Australian pique let me assure the Senate that I and my colleagues on this side are in full support of the Bill. Whilst it does not give as much money as Western Australia would like to have it is at least something. We will take anything that we can get from this Government which professes to be federalist and in actual fact is nothing. The purpose of this Bill is to provide my State with an additional $3.2m by amending the National Roads Act and the Roads Grants Act. 

 -No. Mr Cotter said that the Government had been generous and sympathetic in the past and he hoped that it would be generous and sympathetic in the future. I think one thing that  Senator Hall  failed to take into consideration in his tirade a moment ago is that South Australia is roughly one-third the size of Western Australia. A great proportion of our population, lives outside the metropolitan area. A great proportion of our population, especially those connected with the north-west shelf and the mining centres, produces more than any other area in Australia. 
Let us have a look at what  Mr O'Connor,  another Liberal Party member and the Western Australian Minister for Transport, had to say in Sydney when the roads money was being allocated by the Federal Minister for Transport. He said then that it was not enough. He said in fact at the meeting at Sydney's Menzies Hotel that the Pilbara region in Western Australia deserved special consideration because it would contribute about $ 1,000m in export income this year. Is  Senator Hall  saying that we should not be able to upgrade our export roads? Is he saying that these mining communities are not supposed to have facilities which enable them to communicate with each other? 
In other States, in smaller States perhaps, one could say that roads are used as a means of getting from point A to point B. This is not the case in Western Australia. They are used as a means of communication. They are used to keep communities in touch with other communities. In areas where people are living in isolation they are needed in cases of sickness, death or urgency. 
I do not think anyone in this chamber would be foolish enough to say that it is an inappropriate Bill. To me it is inappropriate insofar as it does not have enough in it.  Mr O'Connor  said that the $ 1 ,000m in export income that was to be contributed to the national income by the Pilbara region was about $1,800 a head of population and that that was more than double the Commonwealth average. He went on to say that some residents in the northwest were 500 kilometres from the coast, with no connecting bitumen roads. I dare anybody who has tried to travel from Perth to Darwin by road to tell me that it was an enjoyable trip. In Western Australia we are endeavouring to create a tourism benefit for the people as a whole who visit Australia and for Australians who want to see the rest of their country. We have no completed national highway joining each State or Territory in Australia, and we are not likely to get one with the paltry amount that has been allocated in this Bill for that purpose. 
The Bill is to provide additional assistance for roads in Western Australia of $3.2m, bringing the total for Western Australia for 1976-77 to $5 8.8m, That is exactly the same amount as was appropriated in 1975-76. The Minister in his second reading speech said: 
The proposed increase in financial assistance to Western Australia is necessary to ensure that no State receives less financial assistance for roads than in the previous years. 
He did not say that Western Australia would get more, because the very next sentence was: 
The extra amount of $3.2m will bring the total road funds allocated to Western Australia for the year 1976-77 to $58. 8m, this being the amount received by that State in 1975-76. 
In real terms, there is a reduction of 14 per cent. That is just not good enough. The $475m for road grants in 1977-78 announced by the Minister is only some 68 per cent of the $704.5m recommended by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads for expenditure in 1977-78, and the total road funds to all States will increase by only 8.8 per cent. The proposals of the Fraser Government have slashed the grant to Western Australia for urban arterial roads by more than 45 per cent. When more and more people are living further out from the city of Perth proper, a considerable number of these people are being denied roads by this slashing. Urban arterial roads would enable people to live further away from the main industrial areas and still be able to commute to work each day. In Western Australia we do not have an efficient rail transport system. We do not even have an efficient road transport system. In fact, some people live so far out of Perth that we might have to think of ways and means of instituting a helicopter or airline system so they will be able to get to work, so poor are the roads. 
Let us look at what a recognised body, the Royal Automobile Club of Western Australia had to say about the situation with roads. As reported on 4 February 1977 under the heading  RAC launches attack on road cuts ' the following report appears: 
The Federal Government was undermining road safety in W.A. with its clamp on road funds . . . The RAC  president, Mr L.  A. Jones, said that more funds were urgently needed for road maintenance and to upgrade accident-prone areas. 
The Federal Government's attitude towards road funding is undermining efforts by the Main Roads Department and local authorities to make roads safer and help save lives, 'he said. 
An adequate injection of finance would be money well spent. It would mean a cost saving to the nation by reducing fatalities and serious casualties. 
Each year Australia loses about 3 500 people in traffic accidents and another 100 000 are injured. 
The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads has shown that a program of roads construction to 1981 will achieve benefits worth almost 4 times its cost. ' 
These savings included about $800m in accident costs, $ 10,000m in occupant travel time and more than $4,000m in vehicle operating costs. 
The Government's legislation to remove the independence of the Bureau of Roads was further evidence of its design to downgrade the priorities of road planning and road funding in the national accounts. Fraser federalism will destroy the integration and co-ordination of transport expenditure or integration that would embrace efficient use of public moneys on road planning and construction. One of the points that this Government has to recognise is that local government needs to have time to plan its roads, its programs, its work force and its materials. It is just not sufficient to say: 'Here we have a little bit of money. We will let you have it now. Perhaps next year we will increase the amount'. Local government authorities need to know at least 12 months in advance just how much money they will have, what they will be able to spend it on and what they will be able to do with it. 
The Minister has given an undertaking that $60.2m will be made available in 1977-78, but this really is not any increase when one takes into consideration the inflation factor. The cooperative federalism that this Government is always talking about has been disputed. Even  Senator Hall  made a point of this. He called the Premier of Western Australia strident. He said he was able to talk most against the Federal Government. To my mind he does not talk enough against the Federal Government. He lets the Federal Government get away with too much. Let us look at what he had to say in one of his leaked letters when a State election was coming on. Nobody bothered to query how it was leaked or by whom it was leaked. As it bears the name  'Sir Charles  Court', we may think that it was leaked from his office. It certainly did not come from any of the Western Australian Federal members who are in this Parliament. The Premier, describing the Australian Transport Advisory Council meeting in February as a serious blow to Federal-State relations and the credibility of the Prime Minister's federalism policy, had this to say: 
There appears to be a complete misunderstanding in Canberra of the road situation in Western Australia- 
I would just interpolate that I think there is a complete misunderstanding in South Australia too of the road situation in Western Australia. The quotation continues:  . . or I have to assume that there is a deliberate attempt at either ministerial or departmental level to reduce our program to unrealistic proportions. 
In the  West Australian  of 28 February  Sir Charles  Court was reported as saying: 
An increase of only $I.9m in funds for 1977-78 would severely retard Western Australia's road progress. Many major projects of vital importance to the State's economy and development would have to be deferred or slowed down. This would lead to a significant increase in unemployment, which would have a serious economic effect. 
On another occasion  Sir Charles  Court, a former staunch advocate of the Fraser federalism policy, responded by saying: 
It is time that  Mr Nixon  and some of the Western Australian federal members of Parliament realised that Western Australia has urgent needs and will continue to fight for more funds and fight hard. 
So much for co-operative federalism! The Minister for Transport has refused to give any indication to Western Australia on how its roads funds will fare under this Government's policy of enforced federalism. 
As I mentioned earlier, whilst the Opposition does not oppose the Bill, it takes the opportunity of reminding the Australian electorate of the true motives of this conservative Government. I would just remind honourable senators once again that Western Australia is unique. It is unique in its size alone. The ratio of its population to its size is unique. If  Senator Hall  has a complaint against the Premier of Western Australia he might suggest that  Sir Charles  Court move out and let a proper government take over the State. Perhaps then Western Australia would be more successful in getting more money. 
I finish on the point I made before. I emphasise it now. It has to be recognised that roads in Western Australia are used as a means of communication and as a means of keeping communities in touch with other communities. It is not just a case of a person getting into a car and driving to see his or her nearest neighbour or getting on the telephone and ringing his or her nearest neighbour. That nearest neighbour could be some hundred kilometres away and the person would have no means of communication except perhaps by pedal radio or by driving if he or she needed assistance. I think it is time that the Federal Government looked particularly at that situation. I hope that before the Budget comes down it will accede to the request of the Premier and people such as myself for an increase in funds for the period 1977-78. 1 support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Government received any information about when the report of investigations in the United States into activities of the Central Intelligence Agency in Australia will be released? Is it intended that the Australian Government will receive a copy of the report? Will the Minister undertake to provide all senators with a copy of the full report as soon as possible after it is provided to the Australian Government? Has the Australian Government asked for or yet received a complete transcript of evidence in the Boyce and Fox trials plus a copy of their alleged confessions? 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I am aware that questions have already been asked in the other place on this subject. My having explained that will perhaps prevent the Minister from giving me a 'No, no' answer. I ask: Will the Government conduct an inquiry into allegations made by the Western Australian newspaper proprietor,  Mr Lang  Hancock, that he was aware of the recommendations being made in the second Fox report and that he had contacted various Ministers about five of those recommendations before the report was presented? If not, why not, as the allegations raise serious questions about the security of all commission reports? If the answer is yes, what form will the inquiry take? Will  Mr Hancock  be called on to divulge his source of information, and the Ministers to produce the telexes that  Mr Hancock  states he sent to them? Does the Minister not agree that it is intolerable that a person so closely involved in the very industry under inquiry should be able to make allegations of this nature without substantiation? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by my colleague  Senator Button  and to criticise the Government for prostituting the Parliament by the indecent haste with which this legislation has been brought to us for consideration. We can only assume that some of the haste has been caused because there are so many solicitors on the Government benches who will very shortly be out of a job and who perhaps will still be eligible for a job on one of the commissions. In the past we have seen a few Government senators with the courage of their convictions voting against their Government. I doubt that we will see them do it on this Bill. We have heard so much from honourable senators on the Government side about the role of the Senate and the independence of the Senate from the governing House. We have heard the Senate called a States' House, a House of review. I wish the Minister would tell me when Government senators have had a chance to review this piece of legislation, because I have not. I received it yesterday and endeavoured to read it today so that I could speak on it competently this afternoon. Honourable senators opposite have the opportunity to prove their independence. They have the capacity to support the Opposition's amendment but I doubt that they will accept that responsibility and take that action. 
Time is getting on, but I want to devote the few minutes available to me to making a few points about Western Australia. One cannot help wondering whether the indecent haste with which we are considering this Bill has something to do with the State of Western Australia. I noticed in last night's  Daily News  that a summit conference of senior Western Australian and Federal Liberal politicians is to be held in that State on Monday. Presumably the Federal politicians want to be able to say: 'Look how successful we have been. We have passed the Legal Aid Commission Bill for you'. But the State Government in Western Australia has already legislated for a legal aid commission to operate from 1 July. In my opinion, even that is not sufficient reason for this Bill to be passed. I am sure that all honourable senators have received the same amount of material as I have. There is quite a stack behind me here and there is another stack in my office. I am sure that every member of this chamber has received material relating to this Bill and that none of it has been in favour of the Bill being passed in its present form. To prove that point, I intend to read a telegram which I am sure all honourable senators received from the Australian Legal Aid Office staff association in Western Australia: 
The ALAO staff in Western Australia protests at the introduction of the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill without prior consultation with ALAO staff or their industrial representatives: considers the introduction of the Bill to be a breach of the Attorney-General 's undertaking to the Parliament on 1 9 October 1976 - 
No one ever believed that the Attorney-General would keep his promise-  that the staff who join the Commission will have at least the same terms and conditions of service as they presently enjoy in the ALAO: reaffirms their intention to remain with the Australian Public Service and not to join the State Legal Aid 
Commission until legislation is passed guaranteeing (a) a career structure in the Commission: (b) that the staff who join the Commission will have the same terms and conditions particularly as to security of tenure as they enjoy under the Australian Public Service Act: and (c) have mobility of staff to transfer between State commissions: requests that the Bill be deferred to the next sitting of Parliament to enable the staff, their industrial representatives and others interested to properly consider the Bill and make submissions accordingly. 
The telegram is signed by the Staff Association of the ALAO, Western Australia. This State Government has been openly encouraged by the Federal Government to commence the Commission's operation as from 1 July this year. This raises a few questions in my mind. For instance, I want to know how it will operate. Where are its premises to be located? What finance has it got or will it get, and how will that finance be given? Will that finance be in the form of a block grant which will enable a State Premier to refuse to pass it on for the very purpose for which it was intended, as the Queensland Premier has done with a block grant for the women's refuges? What protection will there be for the staff already employed at the Australian Legal Aid Office? What will happen to the backlog of applications and correspondence that is already held at that office? I ask that question because the present staffing arrangements in Western Australia are totally inadequate to meet the needs of the people who require legal aid. 
Late this afternoon I heard a rumour that there has been talk already about an appointment to the State Commission to get it underway as at 1 July in Western Australia. I do not know whether that rumour is based on fact or fiction. But the rumour has it that  Mr Justice  John Hale is to be appointed to head the Commission. I do not know  Mr Justice  John Hale. He may be a very genuine person. He may have been involved in legal aid. I have not been able to find anything in the books in which I looked to indicate that he has been involved in the administering of legal aid. But I did find out that he was born in October 1905. If I can add up that makes him 71 years of age already. So it is obvious that the State Government does not intend it to be a long term appointment. The practice in Western Australia for the last 10 years or so has been that judges retire at 70 years of age. Having retired this judge once, apparently it is intended to bring him back again. I wonder how the scheme will operate with a commissioner of that age when 80 per cent of the cases being handled by the Australian Legal Aid Office in most States, and especially in Western Australia, are family law matters. Probably he will be shocked out of his mind at some of the terminology that is used these days. 
I want to know what the cost of running the separate legal aid commissions will be in comparison with the Australian Legal Aid Office that is operating already. I want to know whether the Commonwealth has reached an agreement already with the State of Western Australia in regard to the funding of the State legal aid commission. If so, I want to know what amount of funding is proposed as well as the terms of the funding. Perhaps the Minister might like to table the agreement so that at least we can look at it. 
I wish to comment on the amount of work that goes through the Australian Legal Aid Office. We would all acknowledge that Western Australia is one of the less populous States of Australia. But the Perth office alone receives between 300 and 400 letters a day, including legal aid applications and solicitors accounts. In addition, about 50 legal aid applications are handed in at the office by individuals. Will the Minister be increasing the staff of the ALAO to handle the backlog? Has there been an increase in applications in recent months and if so, how great is the increase?  Senator Tehan  mentioned that there had been a 43 per cent increase in the cost of this operation. In fact, the Minister stated this in his second reading speech. I query whether that 43 per cent increase in expenditure related to back payments or whether there will be that percentage increase in the amount of money spent this year. My information is that the money was to pay for past accounts; that is all. There is no genuine increase. The commitment is still for $ 1 m a month and that is all. 
Because my time to speak in the debate has just about expired I seek leave to have a number of documents incorporated in  Hansard.  If Government honourable senators are genuine in relation to this matter they will at least bother to read them. I seek leave to incorporate the following documents in  Hansard:  A further telegram from the Australian Legal Aid Office in Western Australia; an article from the  Australian  of 30 May 1977 under the heading 'Move on legal aid "a threat to standards" '; a copy of the article referred to by  Senator Button  earlier from the  Canberra Times  of yesterday, Thursday, 2 June, the leading article headed 'Blitzkrieg legislation'; a telegram from the Tasmanian Conservation Trust Inc.; and 2 documents that have been received from the Australian Government Lawyers Association. 

 The documents read as follows- 

Porterage paid $ 19.90c . . . Sen Ruth Coleman 
Parliament House 
Canberra A.C.T 
The ALAO staff in Perth- 1 -Protests at the haste in which the legal aid Bill was introduced into Parliament and the Tact that ALAO staff will not have the opportunity of considering the Bill before it passes both Houses. 2-Deplores the breakdown in consultation between the Attorney and his Department on the one hand and the staff and their industrial representatives on the other. 3- Request that the Bill be deferred to enable the Government to consider submissions by all interested parties. 4- Welcomes the responsible attitude of the Government to the publicity surrounding the problems of the Perth office due to inadequate staffing by appointing three additional persons to the staff and by temporarily transferring staff from Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra offices to assist in overcoming those problems. 
Rice Staff Representative 
LAWYERS IN UPROAR 
MOVE ON LEGAL AID THREAT TO STANDARDS' 
Lawyers employed by the Federal Government yesterday strongly criticised plans to dismantle the Australian Legal Aid Office. 
They claimed a bill being rushed through Parliament before the winter recess would drastically reduce the standard of legal aid services. 
The national  president  of the Australian Government Lawyers Association,  Mr H.  Logue, is planning urgent meetings with other Public Service unions and the AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Ellicott,  to request deferral of the controversial bill until the next session of Parliament. 
Legislation to rationalise the legal aid system was introduced in Parliament on Friday by  Mr Ellicott. 
The bill proposes to set up a Commonwealth legal aid commission which will monitor and watch over separate commissions in each State and territory. 
The system will replace the Australian Legal Aid Office as well as existing State government and State law society schemes. 
Career Prospects 

 Mr Logue said the decision would affect 165 lawyers working for the Federal Government in legal aid. 
The planned changes would shatter the career prospects of many of these lawyers and the effects would bc felt in the service available to the community. "The legislation proposes to break this network of lawyers who have built up expertise in this area into eight small selfcontained units'.  Mr Logue  said. 
The effect will be to lower the potential careers of many lawyers who will look for career prospects elsewhere. "The hiving-off of legal aid office staff to State commissions, in some cases comprising less than a dozen lawyers, can result only in a drastic reduction in the high standard of legal aid services provided to the community. 
The proposed Commonwealth commission could be utilised best as a statutory basis for existing legal aid operations. 
A matter of immediate concern is the undue haste with which the Federal Government proposes to enact this legislation '.  Mr Logue  said. 

 Mr Ellicott foreshadowed the Commonwealth commission nearly seven months ago and now the Government proposes to push the bill through the Parliament in only seven days'. 
Under the legislation the Aboriginal Legal Service will remain separate. 
The setting up of the State commissions will he done by agreement under negotiation between the Commonwealth and the States. 
Two States- Western Australia and South Australia- have already passed legislation to set up their commissions, although  Mr Ellicott  has indicated he is seeking further changes in their laws. 
Discussions are continuing with other States. 
BLITZKRIEG LEGISLATION 
It is difficult to characterise the travesty of the parliamentary process that this week is attending the scheduled passage of the Government's Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill, but 'legislation by blitzkrieg' does not fall far short of the mark. The Bill itself, after several months of rather vague statements of intent and uncertain reassurances by the Attorney-General.  Mr Ellicott,  was introduced only last Friday. Late yesterday it underwent its second reading in the House of Representatives. Today it is scheduled to go to the Senate: its sponsors yesterday expected that it would he the law of the land, or at worst awaiting the formality of Vice-Regal ratification, by tonight or. at the latest, tomorrow. Only sardonically could it be said that the Parliament is being given an opportunity to truly 'consider' the measure at all. Such a distortion of the legislative process is neither reassuring about the state of parliamentary democracy in this country nor a good augury of the practicality of the Bill itself. 
Such indecent haste, and its attendant denial of the parliamentary system in its most complete sense, is deplorable enough of itself. But the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill possesses features which individually demand proper and detailed consideration. The commission contemplated by the Bill is little more than a watchdog advisory panel for the Attorney-General. More importantly, the Bill proposes to dismantle the existing Australian Legal Aid Office, parcelling its operations out to new State commissions, in pursuance of the Government's vaunted 'new federalism', lt envisages the transfer to the State commissions of lawyers at present employed by the ALAO-a proposition which raises the entire question of" the Commonwealth's relationship with its employees, an issue which surely demands greater consideration than the Government's parsimonious allocation of time permits. 
The fact that the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations resolved recently to oppose the transfer of Commonwealth staff and functions to the States need not necessarily loom as a major factor in the Government's consideration of this topic. But that- and normal courtesywould suggest that  Mr Ellicott  and his department might have permitted greater time than they have for proper consultation on the detailed provisions of the Bill. In particular, it appears that members of the existing ALAO have just cause to fear that their positions will not necessarily be protected on their transfer to the new Slate legal aid commissions. 
Senate needs to act 
Some of the 'safeguards' proposed in the Bill are less than convincing: former Federal public servants are not guaranteed equal rights within the State commissions and the criteria for their readmission to the Commonwealth service seem unnecessarily narrow. In fairness.  Mr Ellicott  has vowed on a number of occasions to seek the States' cooperation in providing such safeguards. On the other hand, his approaches so far to Western Australia, one of the two States to legislate to set up a local commission, have met with a lack of any meaningful response. 
Questions of honest dealing and courtesy aside, there are many points on which the Bill can be faulted. A strong case can be made that legal aid is to a sufficiently large extent a welfare, as distinct from a narrowly legal, issue that the preponderance of lawyers on the proposed commission is inappropriate. Moreover, the Australian Government Lawyers Association is on strong ground when it protests at the destruction of a national career structure for lawyers with a commitment to legal aid. It is difficult to see how the delivery of such specialist services can be improved by shattering a single service into half a dozen or eight, any more than, for instance, the performance of the Royal Australian Air Force would be enhanced by its division between the States. 
Given the Government's commitment to its 'federalist' dogma, it is nevertheless difficult to understand why the Government is unwilling to entertain the intelligent compromise suggested by the unions- and accepted by the South Australian Attorney-General- to staff the autonomous State commissions from the Federal Public Service, so retaining the advantages of a unified career structure. A strong case can be made that legal-aid authorities should be enabled to stand back from the local interests of State legal establishments.  Mr Ellicott,  by contrast, advocates a system calculated to subjugate Commonwealth-financed legal aid to just those establishments. Too many questions are raised by the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill to permit its passage at this time. If the Senate is in any shape or form the House of Review' it proclaims itself, it will defer action on the measure at least until the Budget session. 
MSGR . . .  Senator D.  Grimes 
Parliament House 
Canberra A.C.T. 
Urgently beg you use all your influence to amend Legal Aid Bill to include clause 6(n) specifying aid for matters involving protection maintenance and preservation of the environment 
Tas. Conservation Trust Inc. Box 684G (6(n)Tas Inc. 684G)8 
LEGAL-AID BODY 'TOOTHLESS TIGER' 
The Government's proposed Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission will be a 'toothless tiger', the Opposition spokesman on Attorney-General matters,  Mr Bowen,  said yesterday. 
The Opposition would be moving to have legislation establishing the commission withdrawn and redrafted. 
He was speaking on the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill 1977, which sets up the commission to operate in conjunction with State and territorial commissions, and safeguards the rights of employees transferring from the Commonwealth to the other commissions. 
The people of Australia needed competent legal aid and legal assistance, and the Bill provided neither,  Mr Bowen  said. 
 It establishes a commission, but what a toothless tiger of a commission ', he said. 
The Opposition would be asking for the Bill to be withdrawn and redrafted to establish a statutory legal aid commission to finance, co-ordinate and provide legal aid, and to ensure enough funds were made available for this. 

 Mr Hodgman (Lib, Tas) said that in the administration of Commonwealth legal-aid schemes, there had been instances where money had not been spent in the areas of greatest need. 
In some areas legal aid has actually caused an increase in fees, where they had been at a more reasonable level', he said. 
He denied suggestions that the Government was trying to opt out of legal aid, and said the Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott,  had managed to squeeze an extra $5m out ofthe Treasury this financial year for legal aid. 
To suggest the Commonwealth is opting out of the scheme is completely and absolutely unjust ', he said. 

 Mr Tony Whitlam (Lab. N.S.W.) said the Prime Minister.  Mr Fraser,  had promised when he was Leader of the Opposition to abolish the Australian Legal Aid Service, and now he had done it. 
You are doing away with existing legal aid in Australia and establishing nothing in its place', he told Government members. 
All the Bill did was to establish a commission to advise the Government on grants to State legal-aid commissions for legal aid in the Commonwealth law field. 
Although  Mr Ellicott  had undertaken to provide safeguards for Australian legal-aid employees, all he promised in the legislation was to try to get the States to make provisions for this in agreements they were to make with the Commonwealth. But no details of these proposed agreements had been made available. 

 Mr Bowen 's amendment, calling for the withdrawal and redrafting of the Bill, was defeated. 
The Bill passed all stages after a division won by the Government by 78 votes to 30. 
AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT LAWYERS ASSOCIATION 
G.P.O. Box E307 Canberra, A.C.T. 2600. 31 May 1977. 
Dear  Mr Ellicott, 
On behalf of CAGEO we wish to confirm our strong opposition to the present intention of the Government to pass the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill through both Houses of Parliament this week, without sufficient time for adequate consideration of the measure by affected staff associations, welfare organisations and members of the public, and of course by Members of Parliament themselves. This legislation is of great importance to the future of legal aid services in Australia and provides the best opportunity for proper consideration of the implications of the proposed new legal aid scheme which your Government has initiated. 
We reiterate that we consider that it is unjustifiable for the Government to proceed with the passing of this legislation in its present form, both from the point of view of the public interest and in view of the fact that it does not meet your firm undertakings to ALAO officers, as the terms and conditions of employment which they would be offered after the takeover by the States should be at least as favourable as those which they presently enjoy. 
At the present time the Western Australian Legal Aid Commission Act remains in its original form notwithstanding the representations which we understand you have made to the Western Australian Government to have a number of important amendments made to it, such as the substantial changes to the means by which legal aid applications are considered and granted applications handled. You indicated that we could expect an indication that some favourable changes would be made to that legislation in approximately a fortnight's time. However, this is unacceptable as six months have already elapsed since you originally took these matters up with the Western Australian Attorney-General, and no change in the situation has occurred in that time. 
We also feel that it is most unsatisfactory and unacceptable for provisions concerning the protection of rights of ALAO officers who transfer to State Commissions to be dealt with in a hasty additional part to this Bill, instead of being covered by an amendment to the Officers' Rights Declaration Act which we understand the Government proposes to introduce and have passed by Parliament during the Budget Session. 
It may be that it will not be physically possible to pass any amendments to the present legislation if it is to pass through all stages this week. If this is so, it would re-enforce our argument that this legislation should be deferred to the Budget Session so that proper consideration can be given to it and adequate opportunity for the various issues involved to be identified and as far as possible resolved as a result of consultation and discussion. The fact that Western Australia is anxious for this legislation to be passed quickly is not in our view a sound basis for proceeding with the legislation, particularly as Western Australia has been so recalcitrant in making any commitment to amending its own hastily passed legislation. It can hardly be surprising that we view with reservations your assurance yesterday that amendments to the Western Australian legislation are likely to be agreed to shortly. Surely the Western Australian legislation should be amended first and the Commonwealth legislation passed afterwards, if there is to be any certainty that appropriate amendments will be made to the Western Australian legislation. Such amendments are of great importance to ALAO officers in Western Australia, and the rapid passage of this legislation in the absence of amending legislation is likely to increase the likelihood that ALAO officers in Western Australia will continue to refuse to join the W.A. Legal Aid Commission. 
As to the particular matters which we raised yesterday, we confirm the following: 
We abide by our basic submission that a nationwide career structure in legal aid should be maintained: and that only by so doing can your undertakings as to the retention of terms and conditions of ALAO officers as favourable as those they have at present be carried out. 
We note that taking the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill and your Second Reading Speech together, you have in fact accepted the principle of what we have been saying. However, implementation of that principle is only effected in part by the legislation and the vital matter of retaining mobility for Legal Aid Officers in the different States and Territories is a matter for future negotiation between the Commonwealth and various States and Territories. The fact that this matter has not, apparently, been raised with the W.A. Government at this time gives rise to grave doubt as to whether such mobility, which should include equal access to vacant positions and portability of rights, will be implemented in part or even at all in the foreseeable future. 
In the context of the Government's determination to proceed with transferring ALAO officers, to the States, at the very minimum Section 21 (3) should be amended to provide for arrangements with a State to provide for equal accessability of 'eligible persons' to positions in State Commissions which become vacant, and for portability of all rights from one State Commission to another (including rights at State level). Clause 24 (2) (d) is too narrow and should be amended to encompass the recommendations referred to by the Joint Council in 1973 that not only diminution of advancement opportunities should be a condition for re-appointment in the Australian Public Service, but diminution in circumstances of employment should be a prescribed condition. The provision should be amended accordingly. 
Clause 24 ( 8 ) should be amended as it is too narrow in its scope. It should make reference to relevant experience which the officer has had, and in any event, should be altered so that the criteria mentioned arc not exclusive. 
As to the structure and functions of the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission itself, CAGEO considers that it is too heavily weighted towards lawyers and did not guarantee adequate representation of persons who have expertise in welfare and consumer areas. Participation by such people in the Commission is vital if the priorities for the provision of legal aid services are to be properly assessed. 
The legislation should also set out the values underlying the provision of legal aid services which the Commission is intended to be guided by. We attach a copy of CAGEO's submission to the A.C.T. Legislative Assembly which includes a submission on this point on pages 22 and 23. 
In addition to these matters we also note that Clause 6. which deals with the functions of the Commission, is unduly narrow in relation to the provision of legal aid services. Paragraph K refers to the determination of applications for the provision of legal or financial assistance by the Commonwealth in Commonwealth matters, but does not provide for the actual provision of such assistance. Furthermore, the determination of such applications is limited to matters in which the Commission is specifically authorised to do so by an Act and otherwise only by direction of the AttorneyGeneral. This means that in most areas in which the ALO provides legal aid the Commission docs not have any authority to handle legal aid matters without a specific direction from the Attorney to do so. This is clearly most unsatisfactory. 
As indicated to you yesterday, these arc the matters that flow from our discussions with the Public Service Board. There are other matters which could be dealt with if adequate time is made available. 
H.D.LOGUE 
General President 
F. LEY 
General Secretary 
The Honourable R. J. Ellicott. Q.C.. M.P. Attorney-General, Parliament House. CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600 
AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT LAWYERS ASSOCIATION 
PRESS RELEASE 
The Australian Government Lawyers Association calls for the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill 1977 to he referred to a Committee of the Parliament to considerthe important legal, social and constitutional issues involved. We would hope that the Government would give the Members of the House of Representatives an opportunity to sit on that Committee, but, if it does not, then we call upon the Senate to refer the Bill to a Committee of the Senate for the detailed and careful consideration it warrants. 
The provision of legal aid services is a very complex matter. It cannot be dealt with properly by the Parliament in the space of one week. Indeed pans of the Government's legal aid package are not even before the Commonwealth Parliament. The Government's proposals rest heavily on State and Territorial legislation, much of which has not even been introduced. The Commonwealth Parliament should be given an opportunity to consider, by means of a Committee, the complete legal aid package. It should know what it is being asked to agree to. 
When the previous Labor Government introduced its own legal aid legislation,  Mr Howard,  now the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, then leading for the Liberal and Country Parties said: 
We invite the Government to have an open mind on changes to this Legal Aid Bill because its proposals already have come under attack from a number of people whose respectability in and knowledge of the field of legal aid cannot seriously be called in question. Therefore the Opposition wants the provisions of this Bill to be scrutinised by a Committee of both Houses of Parliament. 
Hansard 9 October 1975. 
AGLA respectfully agrees with  Mr Howard's  comments and notes that they are directly in point in the present situation. The Attorney-General.  Mr Ellicott,  supported  Mr Howard  on behalf of the then Opposition and said: 
The Opposition takes the view that legal aid services should be provided in the most efficient, accountable and accessible form to those in need of it. For this purpose the Opposition believes that a joint Committee of both Houses should consider the important legal, social and constitutional issues involved. 
Itis time, as the honourable member for Bennelong(  Mr Howard  ) said, that we acted like a Parliament on a matter like this. It is time that we legislated on the basis of an inquiry into the important issues involved. 
Hansard 9 October 1975. 
AGLA calls for the kind of inquiry proposed by  Mr Ellicott  in 1975. We note that to date, no such inquiry has been held. It is indeed time that Parliament acted like a Parliament and legislated on the basis of a proper inquiry. 
The inquiry proposed is even more urgent in view of the fact that evidence is mounting that the Government's proposals are not the most effective and the cheapest way to deal with the provision of Legal Aid services. An all-party Committee of the A.C.T. Legislative Assembly enquired into the Legal Aid legislation before the Assembly. It reported as follows at paragraph 1 5 of its report: 
This Committee is of the view that the Australian Legal Aid Office should be retained and given statutory responsibilities. 
This view, of course, runs completely counter to the Government's own proposals. Indeed these proposals do not entirely accord with what has been said on previous occasions by Liberal Party spokesmen. On 9 October 1975  Mr Howard  said: 
We do not believe that the problems of providing an effective legal aid service will be solved simply by leaving the matter to the States- not because we believe that the attempts made by the Stales over the years have not contained a great deal of merit and have not contributed a great deal to the provision of legal aid services, but the fact is that the Commonwealth has a direct constitutional legal responsibility in a number of areas. Therefore, it has a responsibilityto provide legal assistance to those persons who need assistance in respect ofthe operation of Federal law. 
Hansard 9 October 1975. 
AGLA believes that this statement isentirely correct and that, according to its tenor, the Government's present proposals are of questionable value. An all party Committee of the Parliament or, if not, ofthe Senate, is necessary to look into the whole matter and to clear the air. 
LOGUE 
National President 
Australian Government 
Lawyers Association 
Canberra 31 May 1977 
AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT LAWYERS ASSOCIATION 
PRESS RELEASE 
The Australian Government Lawyers Association strongly opposes the Commonwealth Government's plan to rush the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill through both Houses of Parliament before Parliament rises at the end of this week. The Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill which was introduced into the House of Representatives only last Friday, is an extremely important piece of legislation as it will shape the future of legal aid services throughout the whole of Australia and thus demands careful consideration. 
The Bill has two main aims. The first is to establish a Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission which will be the cornerstone ofthe Commonwealth Government 's determination to dismantle the Australian Legal Aid Office as part of its new Federalism policy. A number of community welfare organisations, including ACOSS and its State affiliates, have consistently criticised the Commonwealth's decision to dismantle the ALAO. These organisations have repeatedly pointed out that the ALAO has established itself as the legal aid body in Australia : it is highly efficient and well organised : and draws strength from the fact that it operates on an Australia wide basis. The career structure which this provides ensures that the best lawyers are attracted and retained. The hiving off of ALAO staff to State commissions, in some cases comprising less than a dozen lawyers, can only result in a drastic reduction in the high standard of legal aid services currently provided to the community. 
AGLA takes the view that the proposed Commonwealth Commission could best be utilised as a statutory basis for existing ALAO operations. 
The second main aim ofthe legislation relates to the rights of ALAO legal and administrative staff whom it is proposed should be transferred to State and Territorial commissions. To quote from the Second Reading Speech ofthe Commonwealth Attorney-General.  Mr R.  J. Ellicott. 'the Bill seeks to preserve (these) rights' but as  Mr Ellicott  admits on page 7 of his speech, this object cannot be achieved as the Bill does not deal with the career prospects of ALAO staff which, as previously pointed out. is an important factor contributing towards the current success of that Office.  Mr Ellicott  said. 
To meet the concern of A.L.A.O. staffabout their career prospects in legal aid. 1 am asking State AttorneysGeneral to include a provision in State legislation enabling Legal Aid Commissions to make reciprocal arrangements with each other for transfer of staff. Similar provision would be made in the A.C.T. and the N.T.' 
This represents a last minute change of heart by the Commonwealth Government as there is no provision for this in the W.A. or S.A. Acts, or in the draft A.C.T. Ordinance. In any event, there must be serious doubt whether all the States and the Commonwealth could arrive at a suitable arrangement in the near future, if at all. Yet ALAO staff in Western Australia will shortly be asked to forego their present legal entitlements to a viable career structure, guaranteed to them as Commonwealth public servants under the Commonwealth Public Service Act, in favour of this pious hope. 
The specific provisions ofthe Bill which 'seek' to preserve the rights of ALAO staff are extremely detailed and complex and the numerous cross references to provisions ofthe Public Service Act require that both pieces of legislation be read in conjunction to ascertain what is intended. This complexity is emphasised by the fact that out of the 2 1 pages of the Bill, which according to its title is designed to set up a Commonwealth Commission, 13 pages or almost 2/3 of the Bill are devoted to these arrangements. The Bill proposes to apply the Officers' Rights Declaration scheme to transferred ALAO staff notwithstanding that this approach was specifically rejected by CAGEO at its Bi-Ennial Conference earlier this month. 
Neither these complex provisions nor arrangements for transferability of staff between States would be necessary if the Commonwealth Government were to adopt the AGLA and CAGEO proposal that ALAO staff retain their Commonwealth Public Service status and be made available as required to the State commissions. South Australia, which is one of the only two States to have legislated for its own legal aid commission, has agreed to the proposal. Yet notwithstanding the obvious advantages and simplicity of this proposal the Commonwealth has steadfastly refused to embrace it. This refusal reveals the Bill for what it really is, an exercise in reducing the Commonwealth Public Service ceiling. However, no cost saving will accrue to the Commonwealth as the financial arrangements with the States will include subsidies to meet the salaries etc. of ALAO staff transferred to State commissions. 
A matter of immediate concern is the undue haste with which the Commonwealth Government proposes to enact this legislation.  Mr Ellicott  foreshadowed the Commonwealth Commission nearly 7 months ago and now the Government proposes to push the Bill through the Parliament in only 7 days. Such precipitous action would deprive the public, Members of Parliament and ALAO staff of adequate opportunity to study the Bill. It also appears likely that some staff would not receive a copy ofthe Bill before it was enacted contrary to assurances given to the staff by  Mr Ellicott.  This action is also inconsistent with  Mr Ellicott  's statement at page 6 of the Second Reading Speech that ALAO staff will not be asked to elect concerning transfer to a State or Territorial Commission until . . . staff are fully informed about the terms and conditions that will apply to them'. 
The early enactment of this legislation cannot be justified on the basis that either the W.A. or S.A. Commissions, or both, propose to commence operation on 1 July. Present information indicates that the need to finalise administrative arrangements will effectively preclude the Commission's opening their doors before August. In any event temporary arrangements could be made to deal with this matter. 
This statement has the support of ACOA, APSA, whose members are also employed in the Australian Legal Aid Office, and of the peak council, CAGEO. Arrangements are in hand for senior officials of AGLA and the other unions to meet with  Mr Ellicott  on Monday, 30 May to formally request deferral of the Bill to the Budget Session of Parliament. 
HUGH LOGUE 
National President. 
Australian Government 
Lawyers Association. 
Canberra 29 May 1977. 
PRESS RELEASE 
COMMONWEALTH LEGAL AID COMMISSION BILL 
Professor Ronald Sackville, formerly Commissioner for Law and Poverty on the Australian Government Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, and  Ms Susan  Armstrong, formerly Research Director of the Law and Poverty section of the Commission, today expressed serious concern about the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission Bill which has been introduced into Parliament by the Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott.  They called for a reconsideration of the terms of the proposed legislation and for more time to allow discussion ofthe Bill's implications. 
The Bill sets out to dismantle the Australian Legal Aid Office, to hand over its functions to State Commissions, and to establish a Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission which would perform advisory functions in relation to legal aid. The first two objectives have long been part of the Fraser Government's new federalism policy. The Government has chosen to reject proposals for joint Commonwealth-State Commissions which would allow the Commonwealth to continue to play a direct role in the provision of legal aid. 
It is most regrettable that a national legal aid service should be sacrificed on the altar of the new federalism ideology, but it is probably too late in the day to persuade the Commonwealth to change its mind on this issue. Nevertheless, even accepting the policy of returning legal aid to the States, there are serious problems with the Bill which deserve further thought and warrant the Bill being subjected to more public debate than the Government's timetable now allows. 
Introduction of Commonwealth legislation at this stage is premature. Only Western Australia and South Australia have so far introduced legislation to establish State Commissions, and neither of these States has yet implemented the legislation or indicated that they have reached financial agreement with the Commonwealth. It is not yet clear that the remaining States will be willing to adopt the new federalism policy, nor is it clear what terms would be acceptable to them. 
The Act does nothing of itself to solve the funding problems of the States, which are being asked to take over the Commonwealth's responsibilities in legal aid without the Commonwealth stating publicly its plans for providing continued or adequate sources of finance for legal aid. 
The legislation will contribute to the continuing politicisation of legal aid. The Attorney-General in his second reading speech referred to the Government's policy of establishing a comprehensive legal aid scheme in Australia and of giving the Legal Aid Commission an advisory, co-ordinating and monitoring role. In fact the proposed role of the Commission is far too narrow, and the Commission lacks any significant measure of independence. 
The Commission's role is limited to making recommendations to the Attorney-General, who retains final authority in relation to the funding of State legal aid commissions and the co-ordination of their activities. The Commission has no power to grant funds directly to legal aid bodies; any recommendation will have to be approved and carried out by the Attorney-General of the day, who is of course subject to the usual political pressures. The Commission will therefore not act as a buffer between government and legal aid bodies, and its lack of independent authority will contribute to the continuing politicisation of legal aid in Australia. 
The Commission cannot perform any worthwhile coordinating role since it has no direct powers, and indeed there is nothing in the Bill to clarify how the Commonwealth intends to achieve its professed goal of co-ordinating of legal aid services. Another layer of government is hardly likely to contribute to the elimination of waste. There is no assurance in the Bill that a uniform standard of legal aid will be provided throughout Australia. 
The Commission will be excessively dominated by legal practitioners. It is now widely accepted that a broad range of interests and experience be represented on any legal aid commission. This is especially true ofan advisory committee, where a detailed knowledge of legal practice is less important than an understanding of social welfare services, research techniques, and the needs ofthe consumers of legal aid. Yet there is no specific provision for the appointment of a non-lawyer to the Commission. The  Chairman,  the  Deputy Chairman,  and the Law Council nominee must all be lawyers. It is likely that the nominees ofthe Commonwealth and State Attorneys-General will be lawyers and that most will be practitioners. If that occurs the only representative able to put forward the consumer and social welfare perspective will be the single nominee of the Australian Council of Social Service. 
The Bill reflects a limited and unimaginative view of the role of legal aid. Far more thought should be given to the Commission's advisory functions. The drafting of the Bill shows a singular lack of imagination. 
The Commission is directed to keep under review the extent ofthe need for legal assistance but legal assistance is defined in a limited way that does not expressly recognise the need for test cases or the importance of actions on behalf of disadvantaged groups. It has been repeatedly pointed out that legal aid, if it is to be effective, must conduct test cases and class actions where appropriate. 
The Commission is empowered, as requested by the Attorney-General, to report to him as to the provision of financial assistance to State legal aid commissions. Even apart from the limitation that the Attorney-General is not even bound to refer the question of financial assistance to the Commission notwithstanding the dependence of the States on federal support, the Commission is not directly required to consider the granting of assistance to voluntary legal services, such as the Fitzroy Legal Service, which have been performing extraordinarily valuable work. The Commission has power to advise on such other matters as it considers appropriate, but this is different from a duty to consider financial assistance to the voluntary services. The Bill does refer (in clause 6 (e)) to the possibility ofnonGovernment legal aid schemes receiving financial assistance from the Commonwealth, but the role of the Commission in this is not made clear. 
No attempt has been made to give the Commission a law reform function- that is. developing proposals for reform arising out ofthe experience of legal aid bodies in the States. This can and shouldbe done in conjunction with the federal Law Reform Commission, but the law reform function has been overlooked altogether. Furthermore the Commission itself is given no role in promoting community legal education, its role being limited to advising the Attorney-General. 
The legislation to establish a Commonwealth Commission to advise and co-ordinate State legal aid schemes is of crucial importance and will largely determine the nature of future legal aid development in Australia. 
The Bill now before Parliament is deficient in many fundamental aspects and adequate time should be allowed for a full consideration of its terms. The proposed A.C.T. Legal Aid Ordinance was permitted to lie on the table for a lengthy period to facilitate full public discussion. The same procedure should be adopted with this legislation, which has far greater implications at a national level. It should not be rushed through Parliament without adequate scrutiny, and amendment where necessary. ' 
RONALD SACKVILLE 
SUSAN ARMSTRONG 
Enquiries: 
Professor R. Sackville. Faculty of Law. University of New South Wales. (Telephone: 662 3266) 

 Ms Susan Armstrong. Faculty of Law. University of New South Wales. (Telephone: 662 2585) 
SUMMARY OF CAGEO'S SUBMISSION ON THE RETENTION OF A NATIONAL CAREER SERVICE IN LEGAL AID 
CAGEO's submission is that the Australia-wide career service to which officers of the Australian Legal Aid Office presently belong should be retained after the establishment of legal aid commissions in the States and Territories. The Council's proposal envisages the retention ofan on-going Commonwealth career service in legal aid in which ALAO officers would remain in employment under the Commonwealth Public Service Act: for example, by employment within the proposed Commonwealth Commission. Officers in the service would work under the direction and control of the legal aid commissions established in the States and Territories. 
This proposal rests on four principal bases. 
Firstly it rests on the views expressed by the AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Ellicott.  in his initial public statement concerning legal aid made on 15 January 1976. The AttorneyGeneral said then, in effect, that the public interest involves meeting the citizens' need for legal aid. and doing so efficiently and economically, partly through the work of salaried lawyers. 
CAGEO submits that salaried lawyers arc able to provide the most efficient and economical legal aid services in many situations but particularly in areas where there arc few or no readily accessible private practitioners. For their services to be efficient, however, career prospects of salaried lawyers and other general terms and conditions of their employment must be sufficiently attractive to encourage able professional and administrative personnel to apply to work in the legal aid field, and to continue to work there after they have gained experience in the work. 
This goal cannot, however, be achieved inhere is to he no Australia-wide career structure as there is at present in the ALAO whose officers are members ofthe Australian Public Service. If salaried officers are 'locked' into a small employment body such as the proposed commissions in Western Australia and South Australia arc likely to be. numbering between approximately thirty and forty officers each, those with ability and ambition are most unlikely to remain with it for more than a relatively shorttime, and the difficulty of attracting competent people to replace them is sure to be very considerable. 
In Tasmania, there are at present eight qualified lawyers working in the Australian Legal Aid Office. A majority of these lawyers were recruited from outside the State. This has been possible only because intending applicants for positions in the Office have known that after working for a time in the ALAO in Tasmania they could seek a transfer to a position in that Office elsewhere in Australia. If a national career service in legal aid is not maintained the salaried service in Tasmania will certainly run down rapidly and the present high standard of legal aid services which the ALAO is providing to the public is likely to disintegrate. 
The second basis for the proposal is the AttorneyGeneral's frequent assurances to officers of the Australian Legal Aid Office that after the takeover of the ALAO by the States the officers would have terms and conditions of service at least as favourable as their present terms and conditions of service (as Australian public servants). One of the clearest examples of such assurances was the Attorney-General's statement in the House of Representatives on 19 October 1 976 in which he said: 
If any legal aid officers are listening tonight I want them to know that in the negotiations I am undertaking I am seeking to preserve the position of all salaried legal aid officers. So in the takeover by the States the situation clearly will be that those officers will be protected and will have at least the same conditions as they enjoy at the moment '. 
The terms and conditions of employment of officers ofthe legal aid commissions provided for in the State legislation which has been passed in two States ( Western Australia and South Australia) are left at large, being in the discretion of each commission though subject, in the case of South Australia, to the approval of the State Government, and Western Australia, to consultation with the State Public Service Board. This is clearly a very much inferior position to that under which ALAO officers are presently employed as Commonwealth public servants under the Commonwealth Public Service Act. 
This unsatisfactory situation would not be rectified by the proposed application of a revised Officers' Rights Declaration Act to ALAO officers who join the State commissions. The principal reasons for this being so are set out in CAGEO 's submission to the Attorney-General in relation to the proposed Legal Aid Ordinance for the A.C.T. and the Northern Territory. In essence these are- 
1 ) the application ofthe proposed form ofthe new ORD Act would, it is understood, depend upon the ALAO officers concerned being compulsorily transferred to State and Territory commissions. At present the ALAO officers are not subject to such compulsory transfer. They are entitled to a meaningful option as to whether or not they wish to transfer, particularly as they have been repeatedly assured that this option would bc given to them. 
to resign from the Australian Public Service and transfer to a State or Territory commission would involve a substantial loss of career opportunity and even if the application of the revised ORD Act through compulsory transfer were accepted. Officers to whom the Act applied would lose their present right of access to ALAO offices in other States and Territories- a right which is of considerable importance, as most ALAO officers would prefer to make their career in the nation-wide legal aid service rather than to seek employment in a Deputy Crown Solicitor's Office. 
the opportunities for former ALAO officers to return to the Australian Public Service would be severely limited by virtue of the abolition of all the positions from which they had resigned and the generally tight employment situation in the Australian Public Service. Lawyers, particularly would almost certainly find career opportunities in the Australian Public Service minimal or non-existent. 
by transferring to a State or Territory Commission, ALAO officers would be leaving the Australian 
Government as their employer and accepting in substitution a small Commission a number of whose members (perhaps almost half or even a majority) may well have an unfavourable or at least restrictive view of the role of a salaried service in the legal aid area. In any event, the Commission would be likely to be less reliable than the Australian Government in relation to future terms and conditions of service and as the Ordinance presently stands, the staff of the Commission would have no direct say in the Commission's formulation of policy in this area. 
discussions with the Public Service Board have indicated that a number of particular present rights of individuals might not be able to be carried over to the new Commission e.g. seniority, maternity leave. 
taken as a whole, the proposals, which envisage the breakup ofthe present nation-wide legal aid service, and the retention of certain rights by existing officers cannot make up for the demise of that ongoing, broadly based service which involves permanency of employment. 
The third basis ofthe submission is that the proposed compulsory transfer of Australian public servants to State commissions which will not be staffed by State public servants is without precedent in the history of the Commonwealth Public Service. On all previous occasions when transfers of Commonwealth public servants to the States has taken place, the transferred officers have been offered State public service rights. This is clearly not the situation in regard to ALAO officers. CAGEO submits that there is no justification for breaking this long standing and well founded practice. 
Fourthly, it is CAGEO s policy, as indicated in discussion with the Board, that current Commonwealth proposals should not operate so as to discriminate between ALAO officers (in relation to future terms and conditions of service ) simply because of their location in a State or Territory. For example, it is understood that staff taken over by the proposed A.C.T. Commission will continue to receive identical terms and conditions to those which they presently enjoy. Presumably this will also be the case in the Northern Territory. On the other hand, it is abundantly clear that the terms and conditions that will be accorded to staff of the West Australian and South Australian commissions will bc somewhat less than those which they presently enjoy. Indeed, there is likely to be a disparity between the terms and conditions accorded in each of those States and this trend is likely to be repeated in each of the other States assuming they adopt the Commonwealth proposal. In CAGEO's view the only equitable means of avoiding this blatant discrimination is for the Commonwealth to adopt the proposal contained in the first paragraph of this submission. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 2 June 1977: 
1 ) What are the total sales figures from each office of the Australian Government Publishing Service over the past three years. 
What are the total sales figures from the Mail Order Service of the Australian Government Publishing Service over the last three years. 
3 ) What are the staff figures for each office of the Service for the same period. 
What are the relative sales, per head of population, in each State over the same period. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 31 May 1977: 
1 ) Has the Government received any information as to when the report of investigations in the United States of America into the activities of the Central Intelligence Agency in Australia will be released. 
Is it intended that the Australian Government receive a copy of the report; if so, will the Prime Minister undertake to provide all senators with a copy of the full report as soon as possible after it is provided to the Government. 
3 ) Has the Australian Government asked for, or received, a complete transcript of evidence in the Boyce/Fox trials, plus a copy of their alleged confessions. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that a number of married women have already lost, and others are in danger of losing, their employment, particularly in the unskilled and semi-skilled areas in the textile industry, the footwear industry, the food processing industry and in other areas of manufacturing industry because of the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme? Is the Minister aware that this $63 a week, which I  understood was to be an incentive to employers to create additional employment, is in actual fact being used by some employers to replace married women with younger people, which means that the employers are paying less wages, and the scheme is not being used to create additional employment at all? In view of the fact that married women do not show up in the general unemployment figures, I ask: Is this another method being used by the Government to cook the books and make believe that unemployment figures for the future are not as bad as they would otherwise appear? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it true that in its most recent decision, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission found that there had been some decline in real wages since May and June of last year? Is it also true that the Commission rejected the Government's submission that profits must go up and wages must come down on the grounds that the evidence showed that both had moved in that direction but had led to no recovery? Is the Government concerned that a body of the authority of the Arbitration Commission is persistently rejecting its submissions on the grounds that there is almost no evidence to support the Government's case? Will the Government concede that at the very least there must be some possibility that the economic policies is it pursuing are misguided? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I recognise that he has new portfolio responsibilities and may not be in a position to give positive answers today. Nevertheless, I ask that he treat the matter as one of some urgency. In view of the extremely delicate situation in which legal assistance has been placed because of this Government's decision, will the Attorney-General give the precise allocation of funds for the Legal Aid Commission in Western Australia? Will he advise the name and qualifications of his representative to the Legal Aid Commission? Will he table the agreement between the Federal Government and the Western Australian Government in respect to legal aid? Will he ensure that copies of this agreement will be sent to all Australian Legal Aid Office professional staff in Western Australia? 
-I present the following petition from 38 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate, in Parliament assembled. We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, do humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government: 
Subscribe to the view that the Australian Broadcasting Commission belongs to the people and not to the government of the day, whatever political party. 
Eschew all means, direct or indirect, of diminishing the independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
Reject all proposals for the introduction of advertising into ABC programs. 
Develop methods for publicly funding the Commission which will prevent the granting or withholding of funds being used as a method of diminishing its independence. 
Ensure that any general enquiries into broadcasting in Australia which may seem desirable from time to time shall be conducted publicly and that strong representation of the public shall be included within the body conducting the enquiry. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and /or the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I really will not haggle as to which one should give me a reply as long as I get a reply. The question relates to the apprehension and detention of foreign owned fishing vessels off the Australian coast. I think a prosecution was launched about the beginning of August. According to information I was given quite recently of the 17 crew members of a foreign fishing vessel held in Darwin, 14 had venereal disease and two had tuberculosis. The Minister might like to confirm those figures. I ask: What conditions prevail following the apprehension of foreign owned vessels? Are crews automatically placed in quarantine or are they placed under arrest, in which case there could be some danger of transmission of disease? I remember that quite recently, following the arrival of a large number of refugees, for some reason unknown and particularly incomprehensible to the people of Kununurra they were taken to that township and then moved to Wyndham for quarantine. So I again ask: What are the conditions of quarantine, particularly those which apply at Darwin and at the north-west ports on the Western Australian coast? 
I want to speak very briefly tonight about a group of people who are about to undertake a journey across the Nullarbor. They left Perth on Sunday morning to go to Quairading and were to go to Merridan on Monday night. Tonight they will be camping in Kalgoorlie. They will be starting their journey across the Nullarbor on about Thursday of this week. It may not seem very unusual to have people travelling across the Nullarbor in this day and age, but there is a uniqueness about the people of this group in that they are Aboriginals. They have only two cars to transport some 20 people and they do not have a great deal of money but they have found it necessary to travel to Canberra particularly to see the Minister for Aboriginal 
Affairs  (Senator Viner),  the Minsiter who is responsible for their welfare. I think it is rather unfortunate that whilst  Mr Viner  released a Press statement at the weekend saying that he is quite happy to meet them, they have found that he has not been available when they have wanted to meet him on their own ground. They have found it necessary to come to Canberra to meet him on his ground. 
-The Minister is from Western Australia. He unfortunately is apparently not available to the Perth Aboriginal fringe dwellers. 
He may be in your opinion. I doubt whether the Aboriginals in Western Australia and particularly those from Lockridge would consider him to be the best. In fact, they would consider him to be a long way from the best. The Perth Aboriginal fringe dwellers have quite a long history of suppression in our society, which is supposed to assist those under privileged, as  Mr Malcolm  Fraser said some time ago and  Mr Lynch  repeated when he brought down his Budget. I would like to read into the record the point of view of the Perth Aboriginal fringe dwellers, why they are coming here and what are their aims in making this rather horrendous trip across the Nullarbor without sufficient vehicles to transport them. They say this in a publication entitled 'Perth Aboriginal Fringe Dwellers': 
The point of the Lockridge people going to Canberra to see  Mr Viner,  Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, is to protest against being pushed into night shelters and hostels which is only a temporary basis. 
We want a permanent foundation put down and land set aside so that we can build decent homes on this land. It's the Aboriginals ' desire. It 's what they want. 

 Mr Viner is neglecting us. 
That does not sound to me as if they think he is the most appropriate or best Minister they have had. The publication continues: 
He's giving us the run around. We've experienced the promises in the past and we feel it's time we united together and marched across the continent to Parliament House, Canberra. We feel the Aboriginal people have been neglected too long. We've suffered too long under these conditions, living under bridges. The time has come when all Aboriginal people must be master of their own destinies and not like it's been in the past where the whites have been masters of their own destiny and ours. 
I speak of the fringe dweller who has come from the past, who is lingering in the present moment, in misery and in discomfort - 
Obviously the honourable senator does not talk very much to Aboriginals or he would know that a lot of them are highly intelligent people. 
-I would not say that the writer of this has been educated at a university. The publication continues: 
. and I look upon the future fringe dwellers who are around me now and I am wondering if there is any future, and I am asking  Mr Viner-  does he see any future for the Aboriginal children of today? 

 Mr Robert Bropho who is leading the Lockridge fringe dwellers on the journey to Canberra and who is travelling with his wife and eight children, said to me when I spoke to him at the Lockridge Reserve on Saturday: 'It is all very well for the Minister to come along and put us on a block of land and give us ablution blocks where we can shower and go to the toilet, but when we come out of those showers and toilets we have to sleep in a tent because the Minister has not allocated funds for us to have housing'. It is housing that they want to design for themselves in conformity with the way in which they live in the extended family situation. This is what Bob Bropho wrote: 
I'd like to go back to that dirty word 'reserve'. These reserves were set down by the early explorers for this purpose only, for Aboriginal people to live on, and they more or less said, squat on this piece of land and well take the rest. Why do the whites want this piece of land they call the reserves? Why do they want it now? 
Shut down the reserves, then naturally the Aboriginal people are going to migrate to the fringes of town. What happens then? You bring them in from the wide open spaces, they're living on the fringes of town, they're suffering, they've got nowhere to go. There's overcrowding in state houses, overcrowding in any private house that's rented by Aboriginals. There's no answer to it. So the Aboriginals pick an open block of land because that block represents the wide open spaces where they come from. If there's no vacant block, they'll pick a bridge and band up together for comfort and understanding, because the black way is to help one another. 
It's wrong for the whites to create a problem that they've got no answer to. If you're going to force the people from the bush and into the fringes of town and give them false hopes, and say you're going to get a state house within the next 5 or 10 years, they're going to be hanging around the fringes of town. 
But what happens when they are evicted from their first trial out into the white community in state housing or a private home? Where do they go? There is no turning-back point to where these people can go. The first thought that comes into their minds is Dad down the road, or Mum, or Uncle or Aunty. This causes overcrowding; these families are in turn evicted. 
If you break up the reserve then you've got to replace that piece of land. That land's got to be on the fringes of town where they know they belong- listen to our desire and you'll get your answer to the problem the whites have created. 
We have seen a situation arise in Western Australia where the State Government returned to the Treasury in 1974-75 a sum of $4.556m which was appropriated by the Federal Government specifically for Aboriginal housing. It was not used. Not one penny of it was used. I am not saying that that would have gone a long way towards housing the people at Lockridge, Saunders Street, Millers Dam or any of the other places in Western Australia, but it would have gone part of the way towards providing land and accommodation for the people who recognise that they do not have the capabilities and the capacity to live in the white man's housing. It would seem that some of these Aborigines are condemned to living under sheets of tin and under the Swan River Bridge, as they did at Guildford for many months before the police and the Shire of Midland eventually moved them forcibly onto a block of land in Saunders Street from which they have now been evicted. Subsequently they camped in a church yard. An interesting article on this subject appeared in the  Australian  on 1 9 August of this year. It was written by Jan  Maymann  and was headed 'Archbishop helped blacks- $95 fine'. The article stated: 
The Anglican Archbishop of Perth appeared in court yesterday when his archdiocese was fined $95 for helping homeless Aboriginals. 
The Penh Diocesan Trustees were sued by the Swan Shire Council for allowing the Aboriginals to camp on the lawns of the Church for 42 days in May and June, in breach of the Health and Town Planning Acts. 
They were fined $30 on the Health Act charge and $ 1 5 on the Town Planning Development Act charge. Costs of $25 were imposed in each matter. 
We broke the law to keep the peace'. Archbishop Geoffrey Sambell told the magistrate at the Midlands Court of Petty Sessions,  Mr J.  B. Anton. 
Outside, he said: 'Well break the law again if need be. Australia is a racist country. We must fight racism wherever it appears, in Midlands, in Canberra or anywhere else. 
We must continue fighting until the whole country cares about the Aboriginals. People lose their lives fighting for justice. This is not too high a price to pay. 
The Aboriginals had great difficulty in communicating with white society and the tent village has become a symbolic means of protest ', Archbishop Sambell said. 
They have put up their tents in Canberra and on the Cathedral lawns in Perth, with no legal action against them. ' 
The Archbishop said he was unperturbed about the court hearing because it had highlighted the plight of the Aboriginal families. 
The Anglican Church would continue working with the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner,  to secure Aboriginals the right to the kind of accommodation they wanted, from fully serviced camp sites to conventional houses. 
About 100 men, women and children have traditionally camped out under the bridges of Guildford, 20 km from Perth, until this winter when the church grounds were made available and white supporters gave them tents. 
Their leader,  Mr Bob  Bropho was in court to see the archbishop and the trustees pay their lines yesterday. 
Everyone else is boundary riding round the paddock, he's riding in the middle ',  Mr Bropho  said. 
As I said, there is a long history. I want to relate some of the history of the Perth fringe dwellers group. In 1975 and 1976 at Saunders Street, which I mentioned earlier and which is an Aboriginal Lands Trust site, the Aboriginals decided that this was to be their turning back point and that they were going to squat on this piece of land. They applied to have eight houses built by themselves, designed to suit their needs and their extended family lifestyle. But three times plans were submitted to and rejected by the Shire of Swan. Only after a demonstration at the Shire of Swan offices on 14 March of this year by 1 50 Aboriginals and whites were four houses conceded. Even now, despite persistent complaints on health grounds and that of normal human decency, governmental red tape has delayed the provision of an elementary ablution block. 
In April 1977 when their open air camp was burnt out and following constant police pressures a group of fringe dwellers met in Guildford's Stirling Square which is a traditional meeting place in Guildford not only for blacks but also for whites. The fringe dwellers subsequently erected a tent village on Anglican church grounds. Later, as I have already reported, the church was fined for assisting the Aboriginals. Dean Cornish said the church would complain to the United Nations.  Mr Viner,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, visited the village and promised the people superior facilities and their own land, and consultation in all decisions affecting their future. That fact was reported in the  West Australian  on 21 May 1977. 
Bob Bropho erected a tent in the Roman Catholic cathedral grounds to further public awareness of the plight of the Aboriginal. At Guildford in May the winter rains came and still no promises had been met, and so the people raised their tents and marched on to crown land at Lockridge. Their efforts continued to be frustrated so they marched to Parliament House in Perth, having informed the Premier that they were coming to consult with him. Neither the Premier nor any member of his Government chose to see them. They were in actual fact addressed by the Honourable Lyla Elliott, M.L.C. and the Honourable Jack Skidmore, 
M.L.C., who represent the area. The Western Australian Minister for Community Welfare,  Mr Ridge,  claimed in the Western Australian Parliament that a task force had been consulting with the Lockridge people - 
-This is the member who is in a little trouble, yes.  Mr Ridge  claimed that a task force had been consulting with the Lockridge people on a schedule of developments for their community and a permanent land site. No such consultations have taken place. I spoke with the people at Lockridge on Saturday. They have not seen any of the people who were supposed to be consulting with them. They have certainly not seen  Mr Ridge  at Lockridge. As a result of talking around their campfires the Lockridge people decided to go to see  Mr Viner  in Canberra and demand that his promises be carried out. As stated in an article in the  Sunday Times  on 4 September 1977 they said: 
If we cannot get a bus then we will go in cars . . . and if we cannot get enough cars we will walk. But whatever happens we are going. 
This determination is shared by all the fringe dwellers of the Swan Valley. The people of Saunders Street, Widgee Road, the Midland Abattoirs and Miller s Cave have seen no improvement in their situation. As Ruth Kickett of Saunders Street said: 'We are living off the crumbs of the table but even crumbs go mouldy and stink'. Some 30 people left the cathedral in Perth on Sunday morning at about 10.30 and made their way to Quarading, a place noted perhaps for the racist attitude of the shire. Perhaps it was significant that this should be their first stopping point. They stopped in Merredin on Monday night and on Tuesday night, as I said earlier, they wil be stopping in Kalgoorlie. But then the mammoth task of getting them all across the Nullarbor Plain starts. They have only two cars which are able to make the entire journey. Bob Bropho is travelling with his wife and eight children. I think about another three children are involved. Some four families are travelling. 
They are, of course, looking for assistance from the people they will meet on the way. They will need food, shelter and places where they can meet and talk not only to Aboriginal people but also to white people. They will need money for accommodation. They will need places where they can simply shower and freshen up. They will, most of all perhaps, need understanding. They will need to have people talk to them so that we can get a true appreciation of the problems that the Aboriginals face in Australia today. They will need such simple things as blankets and wood for their fires. When they arrive here in Canberra, which we hope will be in about nine days time, they will need understanding, support from members of Parliament and most of all a sympathetic hearing from the Minister. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I remind the Minister of the announcement made by the Prime Minister on the Government's decision on uranium mining. My question follows very closely on the question that was asked by  Senator Martin  last Wednesday. The Prime Minister said: 
The technology for the handling, solidification and safe storage of the high level radioactive liquids exists. It is now being developed to a commercial scale. This technology has not hitherto been put into full scale use as the quantity of commercially produced waste has not warranted a fully commercial process. 
I ask the Minister Is it not true, as stated by the recent United States congressional inquiry on nuclear energy costs, that in the United States alone over 7 1 million gallons of high level radioactive waste is currently being temporarily stored in two localities in the United States and that thousands of tons of other radioactive waste has also accumulated over the last 30 years? Further, did not the Director of the Energy Research and Development Administration's energy and minerals division state: 
No permanent safe storage method has yet been built to contain the waste. 
Does not this information recently announced in the United States make a mockery of the assumptions this Government made of waste disposal when it announced its decision on uranium? In the light of this startling new evidence, is the Goverment likely to reconsider its decision? If not, does this indicate that the Government does not care about such matters and it is only after the revenue from Australian uranium projects? 
I rise to participate in the debate on the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill and to support the amendment that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  which reads: 
At end of motion add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that: 
it reduces in real terms the funds available to the States; 
it increases the States' borrowing costs; 
it forces the States to reduce the services they provide and/or to impose additional taxes and charges; and 
it leads to increased unemployment'. 
I listened with great interest to  Senator Jessop  's contribution to the debate. I always like to hear Government supporters say nice things about untied grants. In a few minutes I will tell the honourable senator a little about some of the Liberal-Country Party Government's untied grants to the States, but firstly I draw his attention to table 134 on page 182 of the Budget Papers entitled 'Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities 1977-78', and specifically to the two columns of figures about specific purpose payments for capital purposes. The total payments in 1975-76 amounted to $205,471,000. In 1977-78 the estimate has been reduced to $175,871,000. If one projects forward the 1975-76 figures to take account of inflation alone- not any real increase- that figure would have to total $265m this year. If  Senator Jessop  says that those figures are incorrect it is for him to prove - 
The honourable senator did not say that they were incorrect, but he said that in actual fact South Australia would be better off this year than it was in 1975-76. 
-Not in real terms. The figures are contained in that statement of the honourable senator's Government- not of my government. They are there in black and white. We know that a number of Ministers in this chamber openly admit that they do not read newspapers. I understand from what  Senator Jessop  says that he is now telling the people of Australia that he cannot read. It is not that he does not read newspapers or even documents put out by his Treasurer  (Mr Lynch);  he is saying that he does not want to read what is there. He knows that what I am saying is true. He is frightened to admit that it is true. A moment ago we heard comments about these untied grants to the States. The second reading speech states: 
The States are, however, entirely free to apply these grants as they choose and no terms or conditions are attached to them. 
Of course, no terms or conditions were attached to the grants last year. We saw a ludicrous situation when money was appropriated by the Federal Government to a State for a specific purpose and it was not spent for that specific purpose. I refer, of course, to Queensland. The Premier there, Joh Bjelke-Petersen, refused to pass on funds to two women's refuges- one in Brisbane and one in Townsville. He said that he did not have to pass on the funds and that there was no way the Federal Government was going to make him do so. If this man had been in private industry he would have been liable to prosecution for misappropriation of funds. It was purely and simply his position as Premier that protected him from prosecution. 
-The Premier of Queensland, Joh Bjelke-Petersen. 
I am not discussing Tasmania at this point. I will do so if the honourable senator would prefer me to. I can look at the figures for Tasmania as well as I can look at those for South Australia, Queensland or Western Australia. We are talking about Western Australia and what this money is supposed to do.  Mr Viner,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and Minister Assisting the Treasurer, in his second reading speech m the other place gave the impression that the States would receive a good deal under this Government. He admitted that the grants which are the subject of this BUI have been increased by less than 6 per cent. He does not spell that out in real terms. He is saying really that because the inflation rate is roughly 12 per cent these grants have been reduced by at least 6 per cent. So the States are not benefiting at all. We heard  Senator Jessop  on his South Australian tack. He said: 'South Australia has received a wonderful deal and this has enabled the Premier to have a reduced deficit in his Budget this year'. 
A surplus; I am sorry. Let us look at the Western Australian Budget, which came down only last night. We heard comments on this today in answer to questions which supposedly were without notice and in which Ministers were asked to give their opinions of the Court Budget. There is no reason for Premier Court to increase his charges for services to help him balance his Budget this year. He has been doing that constantly. Electricity charges have increased by something like 72 per cent. Water charges have increased by something like 48 per cent. He has no need to increase these charges to bring his Budget down in a nice, balanced way. 
The purpose of this Bill that we are discussing tonight is supposedly to assist in some way with unemployment. So, let us have a look at the current unemployment figures. Let us not take the figures that some members of the Government benches in this chamber are only too ready to submit as setting out the true position. Let us get the correct balance and compare months of this year with months of last year and see the dramatic increase in unemployment throughout Australia. In July 1975, for instance, 251,000 people were out of work. By July 1976 there was an increase of 7.41 per cent. If we compare that with the figure for July 1977, by which time the unemployment figure was 337,391, we find a further increase of 24.82 per cent. For August the figures are much the same. From August 1975 to August 1976 there was an increase of 8.06 per cent. The increase from August 1976 to August 1977, when unemployment reached 333,978, was 24.62 per cent. 
Let us not get too far away from Western Australia. Premier Court has very little going in his favour there. In August 1976 the unemployment figure was 20,925- an increase of 27.47 per cent over the previous year. In August 1977 the unemployment figure had increased to 27,596- a further increase of 27. 1 per cent. I presume that because members of the Government parties are so good at bandying figures around they would have been able to read the Budget Papers and to come down with figures which would be relevant to the Bill which is being debated. 
The Leader of the Opposition has spoken already about the Premiers Conference and the activity of the Premiers there. To the general public of Australia the Premiers Conference is simply a meeting to which the Premiers are invited to tell the Prime Minister just what the needs of their States will be for the forthcoming year. The Prime Minister, it is supposed, listens very carefully. He probably nods agreement occasionally. Then he thinks of a figure, divides it by 16, and says: 'This is all you will get'. There is no way- there is never going to be a way- with this Government's federalism policy that we will ever see the States spending money in the way that the Federal government would like to see it spent. We are never going to be able to apply the pressure that is needed. 
I mentioned a little earlier the women's refuges in Queensland. I must take up the matter once again on behalf of my own State. The Premier there has said that people in the community who felt a need to use these facilities should mk more and that if they conferred with their churches and perhaps became involved in parents and citizens associations they would not have the need to call on such a community service. He really did not feel at that time that he could commit himself to funding further refuges. 
-Yes. At the time, he was on a talk-back radio program outlining his own successful 34 years of marriage. He failed to recognise that a great number of people in our community do not have that same capacity to live with a person for 34 years and submit themselves to all sorts of indignities. 
I was talking about the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill and I feel that I am obliged to return to it in part. The total funds going to the States in the current financial year are estimated to be 18 to 20 per cent, in money terms, above the level in 1975-76. If we take into account the fact that there has been a rise in the price level of 18 per cent to 25 per cent, the States really have not received from this Administration a great deal at all. It is no wonder, with the new federalism policy meaning a reduction of 5 per cent to 7 per cent in the real level of resources available to the States, that the collapse of the policy is imminent. The level of capital works programs is one of the most important factors in determining the level of employment. If spending on capital works falls, so too does the level of employment. We have heard supposedly responsible Ministers of this Government, saying nice things about unemployment. Not so very long ago one of them said that it was a myth. I do not know how the 333,000 people who are out of work felt about unemployment being called a myth. They probably do not feel any more kindly about that than they felt about being called dole bludgers. 
Nevertheless, we have to look at what we are doing with our capital works program and whether in fact there is not some way of direct tied funding to ensure that unemployment figures fall in the States. In 1975-76, Western Australia received 32 per cent of its capital funds through the Loan Council; it received 48.8 per cent by way of specific purpose grants; and it received 19.2 per cent in the form of local and semi-government funds. This year the situation in respect of the Loan Council funds is roughly the same. There has been a dramatic increase in specific purpose grants and a like dramatic increase in local and semi-government grants. 
We sat here this afternoon and listened to  Senator Messner,  who has now entered the chamber. I am very pleased to see him here. He might like to read in  Hansard  tomorrow some of the things I have said about his State. This afternoon we heard him say some very nice things about the way in which this Government is operating in real terms. He said that the Labor Government introduced the Regional Employment Development scheme and that if one took those figures into consideration the level of unemployment would be increased dramatically. Let me assure  Senator Messner  that these RED scheme figures indicate the employment that was created for people because of the decisions made by a Federal Government, not a State government. I have here two tables that I feel are of some importance and at the end of my speech I shall seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard.  They are entitled 'Table 1: Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities 1975-76 to 1977-78' and 'Direct and Indirect Payments of a Capital Nature to or for State and Local Government Authorities- 1975-76 to 1977-78'. 
The Fraser Government's new federalism was supposed to protect the smaller States, those States with smaller populations, but it is not going to work out that way. The States which are small in population are going to find that this Bill will be to their detriment. The whole process of changing relativities between the States has been done in a very ad hoc way. It has taken no account of the revenue raising capacity of the States to fund their capital works. The Government has simply said: 'Here is X thousands of dollars. This is what you can do and this is what you cannot do'. No offsetting adjustments have been made to general purpose and capital funds. On this basis I have to support the amendment moved by my Party. I close by saying that the Fraser federalism has already failed and the Australian electorate will testify to this at the ballot box within the next few months. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard'  Table 1: Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities 1975-76 to 1977-78' and a table headed 'Direct and Indirect Payments of a Capital Nature to or for State and Local Government Authorities 1975-76 to 1977-78'. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I preface my question by observing that although  Mr Ellicott  has departed from the Ministry, his influence obviously lingers in the appropriation for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The bleak picture of cuts in funds for Aboriginals is relieved by one item. The provision for telexes and telegrams is increased by $ 17,000. 1 therefore ask the Minister whether the Department, at least, is anticipating an early election? 
The Senate is debating the Appropriation (Urban Public Transport) Bill 1977 cognately with the States Grants (Roads) Bill 1977. Whilst the Opposition does not oppose the Bill I think it is important to comment on some of the proposals. The purpose of this Bill is to provide $30. lm to the States for upgrading urban public transport. It provides an allocation of $51m for urban public transport projects in all States. This means, of course, that $20.69m has already been appropriated and there is no real increase in the amount of money that is being made available by this Bill. The $27.73m allocated to meet the cost increases on approved projects means that more than half of the amount provided in the Budget will go towards compensating for the loss of value in the dollar as a result of the Fraser Government's inability to cope with the declining economy and with inflation. 
The funds provided for urban public transport represent a cut of $7.4m in cash terms and a fall of 25 per cent in real terms over the 1976-77 expenditure. If we contrast the funds provided with the promise contained in the 1975 LiberalNational Country Parties policy statement, in which it was stated that a Liberal-Country Party Government would assist the States to modernise their public transport systems, we realise, of course, that the Fraser Government is completely ineffective in this area. I draw the attention of the Senate to comments made by my colleague in the other place, the shadow Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Morris, when speaking to this Bill. He said: 
The  absymal  amount provided for urban public transport will do little in the reasonably near future to assist State governments to remedy the chronic deficiencies that exist in public transport systems in our major cities. It will do little to provide a public transport service for those areas of our cities that do not have access to public transport services. It will do little for the young, the old, the handicapped and the poor who have to use whatever form of public transport service is available. 
This Government needs to be reminded that people living in urban sectors of our major metropolitan areas are captives of congested roads and deteriorating or non-existent transport services which impair personal mobility thus limiting access to job opportunities, cultural and recreational facilities. The Government has consistently pursued a policy over decades of driving a wedge between country dwellers and urban dwellers for cheap political purposes. It has sought to show urban dwellers as being pampered and as having access to all the better facilities of urban life. The fact is that many urban dwellers, because of the lack of adequate and/or reasonably priced transport services experience a loneliness greater than that of the country dweller. There is no loneliness greater than that of the big city when one does not have access to communication and transport that one can afford. The quality of urban public transport services then is a major determinant in the lifestyle of millions of urban Australians. 
I am not saying that people living in remote parts of our rather vast country do not feel the same loneliness, remoteness and isolation. They recognise the need to have major roads for a number of reasons. It is not just a case of getting into a car as we tend to do in metropolitan areas. We get into a car to go from point A to point B because the transport service which we wish to use is not running, does not stop at a convenient place or cannot transport us from one particular community into another without taking a great deal of time. 

 Senator Jessop from South Australia spoke earlier about the frustrations of being held up by traffic lights. I do not believe that this Government or Liberal conservative governments of the past have ever given consideration to the needs in that particular area. It is frustrating to find oneself sitting at one set of traffic lights and to see another set of traffic lights in the distance already changing to the green light and to know that by the time one reaches them they will have changed again and one will be stuck at the next set of lights. I think more money should be devoted to synchronisation of traffic lights. Melbourne has conducted a fairly good and, I would say, welcome exercise in the main street of Melbourne but the authorities do not seem to have been able to extend it to other areas. Sydney has done very little and, of course, Western Australia is probably the only State which uses the threelighting system for roads. 
The Australian Labor Government allocated funds for public transport and this was the first major investment of public funds for urban transport since the electrification of Sydney's urban rail services in the 1920s. When the cost of the 1974-75 program is added to the program approved in 1973-74, it will be seen that the Labor Government agreed to support public transport improvement projects to the extent of $138m over five years. Those projects covered every public transport mode. I have an analysis of the programs approved in the first two years on a State and mode of transport basis. Later I will seek leave to have that incorporated in  Hansard. 
One of the things that disturbs me most is that governments have failed in any real attempt at leadership to encourage people to use public transport. If honourable senators look at the State Budgets each year they will generally find that transport systems are run at a loss. I propose that if the Government is really concerned about getting the motorist out of his motor car, if it wants to reduce the pollution caused by the use of those motor cars, if it wants to reduce the demand for expressways through cities and all that goes with those things, it must provide a reasonable alternative. The only reasonable alternative is to have a fast urban public transport system. Whether it is based on the train, the bus or the tram, as in Melbourne, really is not important. It can be done. It is done in other cities throughout the world. In other cities trains are able to travel at twice the speed at which their Australian counterparts travel. I do not necessarily advocate thatthatisagoodthing.Iamsimplymakingthe pointthatothercountriesseemtobeableto handletheirurbanpublictransportsystemsina muchmorelogicalwaythanwehaveattempted todointhepast. 
I think it is important to look also at the second Bill under discussion this afternoon; that is, the States Grants (Roads) Bill 1977. Briefly, it is a refinement of the National Roads Act of 1974 and the Roads Grants Act of 1974 which the former Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, introduced. The Whitlam Government had planned the introduction of an integrated transport budget for this triennium. This Government has not done that. It has introduced a separate Bill for urban public transport. In the hard sell of federalism in which Ministers in this Government have been involved, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  made great play of the need for co-operation with the States on road matters. I think we should look at the real situation. Australian Transport Advisory Committee meetings invariably end up in a shambles of name calling, back-biting and threats from States that they may withdraw. An indication of the States' trust and degree of co-operation with this Government is afforded by a number of Press cuttings from which I will read a few paragraphs. I do not intend to read the lot. For instance, it was reported in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 6 June 1977 that both the Victorian and South Australian Transport Ministers attacked the Government for the delay on their roads legislation. The article states: 
South Australia's Ministerfor Transport,  Mr Virgo,  said yesterday he was extremely disappointed and angry at the Commonwealth's move. 
Victoria's Transport Minister,  Mr Rafferty,  said  . . that the Commonwealth's stop-go approach to roads funds was crippling his State 's programs and planning. 
They gave us an assurance in Hobart in February that the Legislation would be for at least 12 months,'  Mr Rafferty  said. 
Apparently the Federal Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  intends to bring down a tough Budget. ' 
Of course that is what actually happened. 
-It is federalism but I do not think the States approve of federalism. Perhaps they would prefer to have a centralist government operating in this country and perhaps that is something we may see in the very near future. The article continues: 
At the April Premiers' Conference every State criticised the Federal Government's allocation of road funds because of the low level of money given and Commonwealth stipulations on how it should be spent. 
It is interesting to note that leaks come from all manner of conferences these days. The article goes on to state: 
Confidential transcripts of the conference show a deep division between the Commonwealth and the States over the allocation of funds between the eight different categories of roads, such as urban arterial and rural arterial. 
Let me read what the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 7 June 1977 had to say about  Mr Nixon's  contribution. The article is headed 'States accuse Canberra on road grants' and is 'from our Parliamentary Reporter'. The reporter obviously wishes to remain anonymous. It is about time we had a more enlightened Press in Australia. I notice that we have only one member of the Press in the gallery at the moment. If pressmen are to report in newspapers it would not hurt them to identify themselves. The article reads: 
All the State Premiers have accused the Federal Government of distortions in its roads grants to their States. 
Two State ministers have even accused the Government of tampering with the grants, one of them claiming it was for political reasons. 
The allegations were made at the Premiers' conference, in April, when all the States made strong pleas to the Federal Government to increase its roads grants. 
In 1977-78 the Commonwealth is providing the States with $475 million in roads grants. 
The Premiers also demanded to be allowed greater flexibility in the way they spend the money, which is divided by the Federal Minister of Transport among eight categories of roads. 
The allegations are revealed in confidential transcripts of the conference. 
The transcripts show that all States were highly sensitive to Federal Government controls over the grants and to restraints on spending which led to real reductions in the level of roads grants to them. 
They also demonstrate the determination of the Commonwealth to hold down Government spending and the tough attitude adopted by the Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  towards the States. 
At the moment, if a State wants to reallocate money between categories, it must obtain  Mr Nixon  's permission. 
The split-up is based on recommendations by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads which can be altered at the Federal Government's discretion. 
The Victorian Premier,  Mr Hamer,  calling for a review of the $475 million also queried: 
Even the allocation suggested by the Bureau of Roads is varied in a way that we do not understand, ' he said. 
The amount going to rural arterial and rural roads has been increased over the bureau's figure, whereas the urban arterials have been cut down by about 60 per cent. 
This is going to cause tremendous difficulties, not just in funding, but also in the road construction programs  . . especially for urban arterial roads.' 
The Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  also complained about the category split-up. 
We are concerned at the distortion of funding,' he said, in that while the total grants have been reduced below the recommendation, some grants are in excess of the recommendation. ' 
The Commonwealth Government has a responsibility towards the States. Very frequently in this chamber and in the other place we hear of the acceptance of that responsibility towards the States. It is disturbing to us, and it must be even more disturbing for people in the community, to read statements such as those that I have just read and to learn that obviously an opinion is not shared by the State Premiers and the Federal Government. If the Federal Government had increased funds in areas where the States wanted them, perhaps they would have been able to create pockets of employment. Instead, at the moment vast numbers of people are unemployed. The States would have been able to plan more adequately for the future. 
In my own State of Western Australia a large number of roads could not be considered very safe to be used. The north-west can no longer attract tourists from the Northern Territory who might then travel on to Perth. This is because of the condition of the road at particular times of the year. At times the roads are completely cut, isolating people and whole townships from other people when lines of communication by road break down especially in the wet season. It is time this Government recognised that people in remote areas deserve higher consideration. We have to appreciate that they depend on roads for a number of things. They are not just a matter of these people getting from point A to point B, for which people tend to use roads in the metropolitan area. Rather it is a means of communication -sometimes the only means of communication that these people may have. Their nearest neighbour may be 60, 100 or 200 kilometres away. The Government has to look seriously at whether it can afford further funding during this financial year to assist the States in this area. The Opposition supports the legislation. 
I am extremely interested in the final comments of  Senator Walters.  I have not seen a great deal of evidence in the Press that the Press indeed thinks as she says or thinks. My prime concern in this Budget debate of 1977 that we are participating in this afternoon is a very small group of people who are at present demonstrating outside Parliament House. Regrettably the number of people is small. That is probably because people in their position cannot find the necessary finance to travel great distances in  order to participate in this type of protest. I refer to the lone fathers of Australia. They are people who have been promised a great deal by this Government and who have not been given anything in this Budget. They are people who have found it necessary to sign a petition in the following terms: 
We  the  lone fathers of Australia petition the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  to have legislation passed giving assistance to fathers who have custody of and are sole supporters of their dependent children. 
The assistance sought is in five sections. The petition continues: 
Pension for those supporting fathers who need them comparable to the supporting mothers benefit. 
Government assisted paid housekeepers. 
More government funded child care facilities. 
Taxation concessions for child minding expenses. 
Equal rights with women when claiming custody of their children. 
I would like to go back to the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty-the Henderson report- of April 1975 and quote from pages 204 and 206, where Professor Henderson stated that lone fathers were in an even more invidious position than lone mothers. In fact, his direct quotation, as appears at Chapter 3 in Table 313, was that a lone father was in an even more difficult position. The report went on to say: 
A discussion of the pressure upon parents to work would not be complete without mention of the serious dilemma facing the lone father. Since he has not been entitled to a pension he has had virtually no choice but to work, and thus has been further handicapped by the shortage of child care facilities, both for pre-school, after-school and holiday care. A number of submissions highlighted the invidious position of the lone father. For example, Parents Without Partners, Brisbane, state: 
There is no pension for men comparable with a widow's pension yet the family needs are the same. Lone fathers are thus forced to work, even during times of crisis, and have less chance of keeping the family together. 
Recent developments have enabled lone fathers to receive special benefit on the grounds of hardship but this does not offer the security of a pension, nor the opportunity to work limited hours and receive a part pension, as lone mothers are able to do. 
Many lone fathers feel that the interests of their children and themselves would be best served if they could receive help in the home. Child care provisions for children outside the home may satisfy some, but others feel unable to handle the everyday tasks and responsibilities of the home and the children, or find that child care facilities do not fit in with shift work hours. However the high costs and scarcity of private housekeepers combined with the inadequate supply of public housekeepers mean that this alternative is only available to the father with a high income. 
One lone father told the Commission about his experiences in trying to work and ensure adequate care for his children: 
I have tried pensioners and they cannot cope with the emotionalism of the children, the energy of them and the hours. Other women 1 have tried have been first- and second-year university students who are almost completely naive to children's needs and that has been a failure. I have tried final-year high school children who start at nine and finish at three. The hours are suitable but I found in general that the children were being neglected. They were tending to turn the TV on, sit in front of it themselves and expect the children to get ready for school, and then leave the house as the children did. None of it has been successful. 
Professor Henderson 's report continues: 
Evidence from both lone fathers and children's homes indicates that the lack of options open to lone fathers can mean that these families break up. For example, a private children's home in Sydney analysed their admission inquiries for the first quarter of 1973. Eighteen (or 28 per cent of 65) inquiries for long-term admission were from lone fathers. 
The Lone Fathers Association in Australia has not been operating for a very long time, but already there is support for it in all States and in the Australian Capital Territory. This is evidenced by the letters and telegrams that have been received by the group outside Parliament House this afternoon. The first one to which I wish to refer was a letter from the Queensland Branch, which said: 
The Lone Fathers Association of Australia (Queensland) wish to convey, through you, to the participants of the lone fathers demonstaration being held in Canberra this week, their wholehearted support and best wishes. We are only sorry that representatives of Queensland are unable to be in attendance with you . . . 
We look forward to a successful campaign and trust that you will forward to us as soon as possible any data or information that is of a worthwhile nature, arising from this activity. 
Equality to all lone parents without discrimination. 
It was signed by Harold C. S. Fallon,  President  of the Lone Fathers Association, Woolloongabba. A telegram was received from the Lone Fathers Association in Tasmania. Interestingly enough it was addressed simply to 'Lone Fathers Association Outside Parliament House'. It reads: 
We fully support your demonstration. 
The following telegram was received from lone fathers in New South Wales: 
Our lone fathers support your action. 
A lot of correspondence has been going backwards and forwards between the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and  Mr Fallon  and  Mr Williams.  I think it is important that we look at other areas of concern. Other people have expressed concern that lone fathers are not getting a proper deal in this rather affluent society of ours and are saying that we tend to overlook the people who are really in need. I want to quote from a letter which was written some time in 1975. Because the gentleman concerned obviously has a very bad habit of not dating his letters it is very hard to determine just when it was sent. The letter reads: 
Dear  Mr Jones, 
I have now received the enclosed reply from the Minister for Social Security, following my representations on behalf of the Supporting Fathers of Australia. 
I am disapointed to see that although the Minister states that his Government '. . . is not mindful of the difficulties faced by single fathers' . . . that relief of any substance will not be forthcoming in the foreseeable future. 
The Liberal Party considers the benefits at present payable to supporting fathers to be most inequitable, and has at the moment a special sub-committee formulating a policy which will ensure that under a Liberal-National Country Party Government supporting fathers are treated in the same way as supporting mothers, and that the amount payable will be a realistic one. 
I appreciate being kept informed of your views and would welcome any further comments you may care to forward from time to time. 
The signature on the letter belongs, of course, to one Malcolm Fraser, the present Prime Minister, who was writing from his office at 4 Treasury Place, Melbourne some time after the knifing in the back of his predecessor and when he was Leader of the Opposition. What has been done for lone fathers? Nothing has been done. This subject came up for discussion at a recent congress of ACOSS- the Australian Council of Social Service. A great deal was said about what should be done by participants in that congress, which was held in September of this year at the university in Canberra. The congress came up with the following recommendations as far as lone fathers are concerned: 
Call for the immediate review of the Budget with regard to the lack of funding for lone fathers and request urgent consideration in any forthcoming mini-budget. This availability of the special benefit is discretionary and the amount is inadequate. 
Urgent need for community support services for lone fathers in crisis periods with a view of self help. 
Urgent need for emergency, short term assistance at times of stress (sudden death, desertion, etc. of spouse) for men (or women) comparable to the 'C class widows pension. 

 Senator Margaret Guilfoyle 's address is reproduced in part. It reads: 
The whole of the social security system is ohe that now does deal with almost all categories of need, with, I regret, the exception of lone fathers. There is the opportunity for lone fathers to be paid the special benefit. 
I would have preferred to see in this Budget the introduction of a lone parent pension which covers mothers and fathers who are sole and single parents in all cases. However that was not able to be introduced, it was one the Government felt was a new program and in the context of the Budget itself we were not able to see the introduction of this year. Although there is a growing recognition in the community and in the Government that this is a gap in the social security system. 

 Mr Brian Wylie of the Lone Fathers Association of New South Wales gave a few facts to  Senator Guilfoyle  and the Congress, stating that the pension availability to lone fathers would not cost any more than $6m. I quote again from  Senator Guilfoyle  's reply. She said: 
The proposition I have been arguing on, from the information that we can gain, is something between $8m and $10m is able to be the figure that we could use. Now we don't know how many would take-up the Lone Fathers Pension, we don't know whether people would take it up for a short term. I am inclined to think that maybe, and more likely, rather than looking at a widow or supporting mothers pension or benefit, where there is an assumption that while there are children under 16 the pension would be drawn upon. I would think that in many cases, in the case of a male sole parent, it may be a much snorter term that it would be used by him. It may be one used by him as an interim to rearrange his own affairs so that he can have that security of income whilst he either nursed or got other members of his family from another State or changed his employment to suit the changing needs and so on. 
So whilst  Senator Guilfoyle  recognises that there is a drastic need in our society, she maintains that nothing can be done. I believe that her estimate of $8m to $10m could be reduced to something like $2. 5m because not all sole supporting male parents would want to accept the pension or would have a need for the total pension. They do want the other things. They want taxation concessions in regard to housekeepers' allowances. When they employ a housekeeper in a similar situation who may be in receipt of a pension they do not want the Department of Social Security bed snoopers running around counting the heads and beds in their homes. The  West Australian  newspaper is not noted for its progressive views, but in its editorial on Wednesday, 14 September this is what it had to say about lone fathers: 
The plight of lone fathers who are struggling to bring up children provides another reminder that discrimination is a two-edged sword. In this instance it is the man who is the victimand he is getting an extremely raw deal from the Federal Government. 
Often the supporting father is in a far worse position to care for children than a lone mother; for one thing he is less equipped by nature or training for the task. Yet legislative concern for him has not kept pace with changed social patterns or with moves towards so-called sexual equality. 
It should not be necessary for supporting fathers in desperate straits to plan a hunger strike to draw attention to their problems, as a group of Perth men proposes. The inequities are there for all to see. 
Quite apart from fringe benefits, a lone mother is entitled to a benefit of $47.10 a week plus $7.50 for each dependent child and an additional mother's allowance of $4 ($6 if she has a child under six). Thus a supporting mother with two school-age children can receive a total of $66.10 a weekand under an income test she can earn up to $164.20 a week before the benefit cuts out. 
A supporting father in precisely the same circumstances is entitled to nothing. If he has a child under school age he can apply for a special benefit of $54.60, but this begins to reduce when he earns $6 a week and disappears when his weekly income reaches $48.60. 
It is hard to imagine anything more anomalous, still harder to understand why the Government has done nothing about it. The cost would be infinitesimal in a Budget of $26,656m. 
Surely the yardstick in such matters should be the wellbeing of the children involved, not the sex of sole parents. 
It is little comfort for supporting fathers to hear the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  acknowledge that they are the victims of a gap in the social security system or remark, in a historical context, that social-welfare legislation was written initially to safe-guard women's interests. 
The Government has moved to rectify anomalies brought about for rural producers by the Budget tax proposals. It should do no less for lone fathers who stand by their children. 
Whilst I very seldom agree with the  West Australian,  for once I would have to agree with it. It was quite prepared to say that these things are anomalous in our society and they should not be in our society today. I was even more surprised when this morning in my mail I received a letter from Kathleen Edwards, who fortunately still quotes herself as  chairman  of the Women's Welfare Issues Consultative Committee. Only two weeks ago in this House a report was brought down giving a wide ranging number of issues in relation to women's affairs that we should look at. Whilst Kathleen Edwards classifies herself as  chairman  she still puts the title  'Mrs' on  her letter. She says: 
The members of the WWICC - 
That is the Women's Welfare Issues Consultative Committee- were very pleased to have opportunity of meeting with you and discussing women's issues during their meeting on 28 and 29 March. 
To the best of my knowledge, I have never met  Mrs Edwards,  nor have I met her consultative committee. A meeting was arranged. I was unable to get across to the eastern States from Western Australia in time for Monday night's dinner or tete-a-tete or whatever was being held. I understand that two of my colleagues on the Oppostion side of the chamber endeavoured to attend, but by the time they arrived the meeting was concluding. The thing that interested me about  Mrs Edwards's  letter to me was that she enclosed a Press release in which she said that the sorts of issues covered in the submissions received from the community and matters raised by the members themselves included the question of increasing the mother's allowance paid to women pensioners with dependent children and the possible extension of this benefit to all lone parents. 
We have seen in this Parliament a great deal of time wasting. We have seen a duplication of activities ranging over a number of years. Of course one of the duplications we have seen is that which is being undertaken by this Government at present. As I mentioned, a report from the Women's Advisory Committee to the Prime Minister was brought down in this Parliament two weeks ago. To the best of my knowledge and my ability to read them in the short space of time available to me, the Committee's recommendations are merely a summation of the recommendations that were already in operation under the Whitlam Government from 1972 to 1975. Apart from such delightful things as what the Committee should be called and the fact that its advisory role should be defined in relation to the Prime Minister and his needs, the Women's Advisory Committee advises that it should set up sub-committees, working parties or task forces as necessary, drawing on its own resources when appropriate and on resources in government and non-government areas. Some of the recommendations that it committed to paper are things that were actively being achieved under the Whitlam Government. The establishing and maintenance of effective communication with women and women's organisations and all interested groups and individuals was done four or five years ago when  Ms Elizabeth  Reid was the Prime Minister's adviser on women's affairs. The Committee recommends that the Women's Advisory Committee explore means of overcoming language and other communications barriers. That was set in train by  Ms Reid.  It is also recommended that the Women's Advisory Committee should raise awareness within the community of the situation of women and of their varied and changing roles and aspirations. That was also in operation when  Ms Reid  was the special adviser to the Prime Minister on women's affairs. 
Let us look at some other areas where this Government has failed in the Budget to assist people in need. While we are talking about women, we cannot go past women's refuges. To me, this is a most important and extremely sensitive area. It has been made more sensitive because of the actions of the Queensland Premier, who is hiding behind his position as Premier to misappropriate funds that were allocated for the specific purpose of two refuges- one in Brisbane and one in Townsville. He has failed to recognise that the women's refuges provide a security, a haven, for people in need in our community. They are people who are not always capable of ascertaining for themselves in the immediate aftermath of perhaps an emotional, domestic crisis just what it is they need and what it is that they can obtain. We have seen over the past few years the emergence of women's refuges, and we have seen a change not only in the amount of funding for these refuges but also in the method of funding them. Goodness knows what the Premier of Queensland used the money for-I would hesitate to hazard a guess-but something like $120,000 was given to the Queensland Government for funding refuges and the Premier refused to pass on the funds. I will read what  Mr Macphee  said in reply to question No. 618 asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in the other place.  Mr E.  G. Whitlam asked: 
When and how did he become aware that the Queensland Government had decided in July 1976 not to pass on any Federal funds for women 's refuges; 
After he raised the matter with the Premier of Queensland in September 1976, when and how did the Premier indicate that he was adhering to the decision of his Government.  1 would assume from my observance of  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  that there would have been little decision made by his Government. I imagine it would have been made by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and then put to his Government as a fait accompli, and whether the members in those two areas concerned wanted to have the funds passed on or not it would have been too late. In reply to that question  Mr Macphee  said: 
1 have been informed that the Queensland Department of Health informed the Hospitals and Health Services Commission by letter of 20 July 1976 that women's refuges in Brisbane and Townsville would be excluded from consideration when financial allocations under the Community Health Program were determined. 
The details of correspondence between a Premier and a Prime Minister are regarded as confidential. 
-I would agree that the terms of the correspondence should be confidential, yes, but I would not agree that a decision made like that should be confidential. I would say to  Senator Baume  that in relation to correspondence between State Premiers and Prime Ministers or heads of departments or Ministers in this Government, yes, there is a great need for a degree of responsibility and a degree of confidence. But I would say that when a Premier makes a decision which relates to Federal Government funding perhaps the responsible Minister in the Federal Government should in actual fact be able to make quite clear to the people who are also concerned why a decision has been made. The act of the Queensland Premier, in my opinion, was a criminal one. If he had been in industry and had misappropriated funds in this manner- funds appropriated for a specific purpose and used for another purposehe would have been liable to prosecution. My interpretation of that could be that he is using his position as Premier to preserve himself from the said prosecution. He is also using that position of power to refuse assistance to those who are desperately in need in Queensland, as they are in need in other States. 
We have a situation in Western Australia where our own Premier not so long ago had his little bit to say on women's refuges. On a talkback program on the Australian Broadcasting Commission one morning he said something to the effect that women in our community would not need the services of a refuge if they sought solace from their church and if they involved themselves more in parents and citizens associations and community activities. I suggest to honourable senators that it would be very simple to picture a scene of a domestic upheaval, where a person's life could even be in some danger. A male marriage partner arrives home in a state of intoxication and proceeds to chastise physically his wife, his children, the dog, the cat and anybody who happens to come in his line of fire. Can honourable senators for one minute imagine that women racing off to a person whom she has met as a result of activities in the parents and citizens association at the local school and asking for solace and help? Well, I certainly cannot, nor can I imagine that this would do a good deal for the person who might feel that her life was in some danger. I could imagine that person with a brace of young children, in the middle of the night with very little money in her pocket, if she is not an independent working person and if her husband does not provide her with a separate housekeeping allowance, being subjected to all types of indignities, grabbing her children and perhaps a suitcase and trying to find a refuge, a refuge which has been set up in Australia only in the last few years, to enable her to leave a particularly repulsive situation; a refuge where she knows that she can find a shoulder to cry on if that is what she wants; a refuge where she can find medical assistance if that is what she needs; a refuge where she can find a home for her children and for herself until she gets her affairs straightened out; a refuge where her children will be looked after and sent off to the necessary schools; a refuge where she will be able to obtain advice about legal matters; and a refuge where she will be informed of her social security rights and all those things. This is the way Premier Court's statements were interpreted by one of the listeners to that program I mentioned. In a  letter to the editor of the  West Australian  of 5 August she said: 
During an ABC talk-back show,  Sir Charles  Court, after extolling the virtues of his own 41 years of happy marriage, said that his Government would not consider making funds available for further shelters for women in need of refuge.  His  advice to such women was to seek solace from the church, local parents and citizens associations and other community resources. 
In that same letter Ann Williams of Darlington asks: 
I ask  Sir Charles  to take his blinkers off and attempt a consideration of what it means to be a terrified womanimprisoned within an unhappy marriage by socio-economic constraints, completely helpless and at the mercy of a physically strong and violent man. 
I suggest that  Sir Charles  show a more realistic and humane approach to this growing problem. He should visit a shelter (five in metropolitan area). Then he would see whether he could honestly recommend that such misery could be alleviated by either church or P and C. 
Another letter from J. McCall of Perth reads: 
A women's collective has requested that the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  clear up the great confusion that exists about who is responsible for funding women's refuges. 
Many letters and telegrams have recently been sent to the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  and the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  urging continuation of federal funding of women 's refuges in the coming Budget. 
Replies have been received from  Senator Guilfoyle  pointing out the responsibility for funding refuges rests with the Minister for Health; and replies from  Mr Hunt  point the responsibility to  Senator Guilfoyle. 
This confusion has apparently led to no responsibility, as we understand that neither minister has put forward any definite estimates for funding, thus leaving the subject in limbo. 
Since the number of bettered women and children far exceeds the capacity of present refuges, compelling them to turn away many more than they can assist, it will be seen that if funds are cut any further the position of these women will be indeed desperate. 
I think it is time that we looked at a report of a survey that has been done by a student at the Western Australian Institute of Technology. Some alarming facts were revealed by a member of the Legislative Council of Western Australia, Miss Lyla Elliott, only a matter of a few weeks ago. On the front page of the  Daily News  under the general heading of 'Terror of Wife Bashing' this article reads: 
Some Perth wives get ' horrific in juries ' from beatings from their husbands, a report has shown. 
The study of domestic violence says that husbands kick, bite, scald, burn and break their wives bones. 
Miss Lyla Elliott told the Legislative Council this week of the reports compiled by a WAIT student. 
She said wife bashing was probably the most common crime of violence in the community. 
 But we are not made aware of it because 80 per cent of the assaults take place in private', she said. 
Sixteen per cent of women interviewed in the study were knocked unconscious during attacks, 83 per cent had bruises, 8 per cent burns and scalds, 8 per cent broken bones and 12 per cent had internal injuries. 
One-third had other injuries, such as broken teeth and welts. 
Most of the assaults were for no apparent reason or because of a small incident. 
As I said earlier, it is the responsibility of government to acknowledge and government has to accept the responsibility that a need exists in our community for such services and that it is not fulfilling that need. The  West Australian  of 6 August this year contains the report of a maiden speech of a person who has done a great deal of work in Western Australia amongst people in need in the community. I refer to the back bench member for Dianella, the Reverend Keith Wilson, whose remarks on the overtaxing of night shelters, was reported thus: 
Perth's emergency night shelters are so overtaxed that dozens of women and children are turned away each week. 
In many cases they are forced to return to domestic situations from which they have fled. 
The lack of emergency accommodation available to women in distress was raised in the State Parliament this week by a Labor back-bencher,  Mr K.  J. Wilson (Dianella). 
He said yesterday that about 2S0 women and children were turned away each month. 
The five shelters- Nardine, the Salvation Army's Graceville shelter, the Daughters of Charity shelter, the Mary Smith shelter and Warrawee-were bursting at the seams.  Mr Wilson  said that the shelters were inundated with requests at weekends which seem to be a time of crisis for many families. 
The pressures on women in unhappy domestic situations were immense. 
Many put off making a decision to leave because of fears about their lack of security. 
The numbers turned away show the need for more accommodation of this type. 
Nardine and Warrawee are the only shelters that receive funds under the community health program administered by the Public Health Department. 
The Federal Government provides 90 per cent of these funds and the State 10 per cent, but there is concern that this basis of funding may change. A Public Health Department spokesman said that funding for 1977 would not be known until the Federal Budget was announced. 
The Federal Budget has now been introduced and we know what the level of funding is. The report continues: 
The department was continuing to provide funds pending the outcome of the Budget. 

 Mr Wilson said that if the Federal Government withdrew from funding there would be a moral obligation on the State to fill the vacuum. 
Many people involved in the shelters were concerned that funds would be cut because of the present economic situation. 
In the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday, the  Deputy  Premier,  Mr O'Neil,  said that the Government could not indicate what priority or level of funding would be given to shelters till the Federal Government made a decision on the report of the Bailey task force. 
The task force was set up to investigate co-ordination of health and welfare. 
I think that it is a blot on the Federal Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  that he has not seen fit to extend funding into these areas. There has not been any move by this Government not only to increase funding for the women's refuges which are at present operating throughout the States but also to spend more money on providing the shelters for which women, particularly those in Western Australia, have a need. It is obvious that there are many women's organisations which are concerned about the matter. The Women's Electoral Lobby in Perth wrote to me on 10 August 1977 pointing out the fact that one refuge per thousand head of female population is necessary to provide adequate shelter. Yet, there is no information available to show that that ideal situation will be attained. In fact, one of the statements made by the Women's Electoral Lobby is that 20 to 30 women with their children are turned away each day from the five existing women's refuges in Western Australia, all of which, incidentally, are located in Perth. The Women's Electoral Lobby goes on to say: 
These women have no option but to return to their homes, to continued mal-treatment which can lead to permanent physical and mental damage, and in some cases death. 
That may sound a little dramatic but in actual fact it happens. We have already had the report from the Institute of Technology which shows that it does happen, and that it can happen. It should not be allowed to happen. 
The situation is not much different in other States. A report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 24 August 1977 states that the Minister for Youth and Community Services told the Legislative Assembly at that time that there had been a record 186 cases of child abuse reported in New South Wales in the previous seven weeks. There is a great need for women's refuges. There is a great need for children's refuges. We must not say that purely and simply because it is women who are seeking to have this facility made available to them that they are the only ones who would use it. It is a provision for their children. It is a provision for their children's health and welfare through a time of severe stress and strain inside what could be just a domestic situation. Of course, the refuges also provide women with an opportunity to make a real choice about their future living situation. They provide women with information on social security facilities that are available to them. They also provide women with information on child care facilities, what they can expect under the State Housing Commission welfare housing project and all these things. As I said, the refuges provide women with information about child care centres. We do not have enough of those child care centres. We certainly do not have them in the areas of need. 
I was fortunate enough a couple of weeks ago to have a look at the industrial child care project at an industrial complex in West Ryde. I was thrilled not only to be invited to see the project but also to be able to take advantage of the opportunity on one of my infrequent visits to New South Wales to look at the situation. But there is no funding forthcoming from this Government for the West Ryde child care project. I am curious why there is no funding from this Government. The infomation I was given at that time was that we should be seriously considering incorporating and encouraging industry to incorporate child care facilities into industrial projects. This is because that it is the most economical time for them to be erected. The project at West Ryde cost in the vicinity of $90,000. If the facility were built as a special project or as a separate project, it could cost twice that amount of money. 
There is another small matter I want to touch on before I reply to the assertions made by  Senator Walters  in regard to unemployment. I wish to speak about the Paraplegic Quadriplegic Associations. I was quite disturbed to receive a letter dated 27 September 1977 from  Mr Dorricott  who is the executive director of the Paraplegic Quadriplegic Association of Western Australia. It pointed out to me something about which I was not aware, namely, that when national meetings of importance to these organisations are held, they are normally held in Canberra because of the easy access to departmental officers. Yet, there is no subsidy paid for the fares of delegates coming from remote areas such as Western Australia. Part of the letter reads: 
The associations who send delegates from Western Australia face a cost of say up to $600 for each delegate, while organisations in the Eastern States face a cost of say between $ 100 to $200 per delegate, at the outside. 
We believe that it is essential that organisations in this State should be able to send delegates to these meetings but it seems quite unreasonable that we should have to bear all the costs and wonder if you consider it would be reasonable for part of these costs to be subsidised in some way. 
Indeed, I do agree that it should be subsidised in some way. I immediately sat down and conveyed my thoughts to the Minister in the hope that he will feel exactly the same way and will do something substantial about subsidising the fares so that the work of the Paraplegic Quadriplegic Associations which is extending all the dme can get underway and become a comprehensive feature in our community. 
To say that the Budget has been brought down by one of the most conservative governments of all time would be to understate the position. I believe the Budget to be a farce. It is a very shallow, deceptive document. Expenditure cuts are made in almost every sector of the community. The tragedy of it is that most of those cuts are hidden.  Mr Deputy President,  I want to quote to you what the Treasurer had to say in his rather rubbery Budget Speech. He said: 
Our second goal, which is dependent upon the achievement of the first, is to promote moderate and noninflationary growth in order to create jobs and reduce unemployment. 
This Budget will move Australia further towards achieving those goals and, in doing so, it will build on the foundations laid by last year's Budget. 
Let us have a look at those foundations laid in last year's Budget. We find that we have record post- War unemployment. We have an inflation rate of more than 12 per cent. We have had massive expenditure cuts in real terms to most of the needy areas, such as in respect to Aboriginals and the women's and children services about which I have spoken already. The list is a very long one and I will not take up the remaining 22 minutes I have in which to speak to go through it. But I have some tables that might interest  Senator Walters  to consider later on and to bear in mind when she next speaks about unemployment. I seek leave to have these tables incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Drake-Brockman)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="074232197710042_24_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074232197710042_24_1.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the Senate. From those tables we can make a true comparison which is something a lot of people tend not to do when they are talking about unemployment. They tend to compare the unemployment figures for this month with last month, for example, or this month with the beginning of the year. In actual fact, if they are economists or people with any knowledge at all, they would realise that the only true way of assessing of what is really happening to the unemployment figures in Australia is to compare the same month of two different years. I should like to refer to the unemployment figures of August 1976 compared to August 1977. I remind honourable senators that in August 1976 the figure of 268,000 was already an increase of 8.06 per cent over the August figure of 1 975. But in August 1 977 the figure was 333,978, an increase of 24.62 per cent over the previous year. That is not a very nice figure to have hanging around anybody's neck. 
This Government is doing very little to sort out the unemployment problem. It has a mania about the inflation rate. It wants to reduce inflation and then worry about unemployment. I suggest that the Government would be better employed if it were to worry about unemployment and then try to sort out the inflation situation. Let us look a little more closely at the figures in the table for Western Australia. The Premier of Western Australia has been saying: We are keeping unemployment under control and we were able to come down with a surplus budget.' The only reason, of course, that the Premier of Western Australia was able to come down with a surplus budget was due to the fact that he had increased the charges for every service during the year, sometimes by in excess of 100 per cent. He increased the charges on water, electricity and car registration. He introduced such delightful fees as recording fees so that when one goes to register one's car one now has to pay a $4 recording fee so that someone can in actual fact put an extra $4 on the account. I turn now to the unemployment figures for Western Australia. In August 1975 the figures were not very bright. They were 16,415 but by August of 1976 they had become 20,925- an increase of 27.47 per cent. In August 1977 the number of unemployed had increased to 26,596- a further increase of 27.1 per cent. There is no joy for the Premier of Western Australia when he talks about the magnificent way that his Government has been able to contain the inflation rate in that State. I think Western Australia has a higher cost of living than any other State. The Premier cannot get much joy from the Budget of this Federal Government. 
I should now like to deal with the subject of women and unemployment. In May this year, 43.4 per cent of the total female population was employed in the workforce. I have a document which is rather dated because this Government has seen fit to cut funds in necessary areas- that is in the public sector- and we find that we are not able to get up to date figures. The report to which I refer is dated 4 February 1977. It is a report of the Australian Bureau of Statistics relating to the years 1973-74. One must presume that because of the ceilings that have been applied since this Government took office and because of the cuts that have been made in the various departments it is impossible for them to come down with later statistics. But at that time the report said that almost half the married women in Australia were income earners in the 1973-74 year but that most received less than $5,000 a year. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, 49 per cent of wives received earned income and, of these, 3 1 per cent received $ 1 ,000 to $3,000; 33 per cent received $3,000 to $5,000 and only 18 per cent received more than $5,000. That does not surprise me because we live in a society which has always tended to say that it does not matter how much work women do, they are not entitled to the same facilities or to the same wage rates as men. It is only in recent years that we have found that women are gradually getting equal pay for equal service. 
In May 1975, 42 per cent of all married women were in the work force. In the years between 1968 and 1975 there was an increase of 12 per cent in the number of married women who were working. Perhaps the figures for this year, when they eventually become available, will show that there has not been a great increase and that in actual fact there are still about 42 per cent of married women in the work force. But we could perhaps also say that if there had not been a serious downturn in the economy and, in particular, a downturn in the manufacturing industry, that figure could have been greatly increased. Of course, these figures are amongst hidden statistics. Married women, whether their income is required in their family unit or not, are not able to receive unemployment benefits if their husbands are working. So we have this hidden area where the income of a married woman may be needed for a particular life style but she is denied the right to receive unemployment benefit because she happens to be a female. We might have a lot of different ideas about why women who are married go to work. I believe that a great number of those married women who go to work do so because of economic necessity. A lot of these women to whom I have spoken do not even want to work. It is the only means by which they can ensure that their children are being clothed, fed, housed and educated and that they have medical and dental treatment available to them when it is required. Some go to work because they need to do so. Perhaps we should examine the situation that would exist if women were not able to go to work. Perhaps our suicide rate would be higher than it is now. We are always reading reports of women who are taking a great number of pills such as Valium and Librium to keep them reasonably sane during an ordinary working day or a non-working day if they happen to be nonworking women. Perhaps we could say that if those women were unable to go to work a great number of them would be potential suicide cases. 
In times of economic stress it is the married women who are first to be put off from their positions. They are the ones whom people do not want to know about. Governments, in particular, do not want to know about them. They do not want to pay them any support benefit and they certainly do not want to include them in the unemployment statistics. A number of Ministers have made irresponsible statements both in the Federal Government and in the Western Australian Government. I should like to refer to a typical example of irresponsibility. A former Minister for Education in the Western Australian Government not so long ago said that he was quite sure that women really should not have higher qualifications because they were not going to be used in the main, and therefore, were not of any benefit and were only tying up funds that could be better used for other purposes. I would presume that those other purposes would be for the male population. The impression that I gained from his speech was that he actually could not see any reason for women in our community not being content to be factory fodder or office fodder. There is very little difference between office fodder and factory fodder in our society. A great number of people reacted violently to  Mr MacKinnon's  remarks. Earlier this year L. M. Macpherson from North Breach wrote a letter to the editor of a newspaper. I have not bothered to check whether the writer is male or female because I believe that the sooner we stop worrying about the gender of the people the sooner we will get rid of one of our main social ills. L. M. Macpherson said: 

 Mr MacKinnon suggested that women studying for higher qualifications may be wasting their time . . . 
The 1976 government statistics indicate that SO per cent of women in the work force are unskilled. 
Evidently,  Mr MacKinnon  wishes to see women remain in the lowest paid, lowest status jobs. If women move out of these jobs, who is going to fill them. This is a valid concern, and I do not doubt that some people will support  Mr MacKinnon's  view because they do not wish to see the better jobs (men's jobs) filled by women. However, women must not remain the lackeys. 

 Mr MacKinnon's attitude has an educationally appalling destructive potential. 
Young girls must not be counselled to assume that it is unrealistic for them to aspire to higher positions. The attitude that women belong at the bottom of the employment barrel will change only if women do aspire to and do attain these positions. 
We have to look too at the schemes which are introduced  by  governments to sometimes threaten the livelihood of married women. In particular we have to look at the most recent scheme that is under my scrutiny. I have raised the question already in this place and will continue to do so. I hope that I will get further evidence on the matter. I refer to the special youth employment training program which has been set up. I understand that the idea of the SYETP was to create- the operative word is 'create'employment for young people. One of the provisions is that an employer can get a subsidy of some $62 or $63 a week if he creates a position for a young person who has been unemployed for six months or more. I believe that there could be quite a number of employers in our society exploiting the scheme. I must admit that I would not be at all surprised if the proposal put to me by the Clothing and Allied Trades Union in Western Australia was not found to be fact. I was told that married women are being put off their jobs and a position is therefore being created by an employer to take on a young person who has been unemployed for six months. The employer thereby qualifies for the $63 a week subsidy for the first six months. One has to raise the question as to whether it is not outside the bounds of possibility that at the end of six months the employer would put off the young person and create a further position for another young person and once again qualify for the subsidy.  Senator Walters,  in her speech, cited a figure of 68,000 who had not only used the special youth employment training scheme but also, as a result of the training, were now fully employed. One would have to query whether they are employed by the person or organisation which originally employed them for training purposes. 
I have to wonder also whether a report that came to my attention that the Commonwealth Employment Service was in fact aiding and abetting such employers does not have some basis of fact. Because of my concern I wrote to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)-  I have not yet received a reply- and to  Mr Ralph  Clark who is the Director of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in Perth. I understand that there is a letter in reply from  Mr Clark  but I do not have it with me. I understand that it is in my Perth office. I was alarmed at a situation where two young people attended the Commonwealth Employment Service in Perth seeking employment. They were in receipt of unemployment benefits but had not been in receipt of them for any length of time. They had an interview. They were informed that no positions were available for them but that there might be something on the board. I have to presume from that that an information board is set up or displayed at the CES in Perth. The two young people studied the job programs that were listed there. One of them decided that the position as a florist's assistant was something that she could handle. As it provided complete training she did not see that it was necessary to have any qualifications. She went back and asked the officer to make an appointment for her. The officer said: 'Oh no! That is not possible. You have not been unemployed for six months yet'. I wrote to  Mr Clark.  The final part of my letter reads: 
If this is correct - 
I have related this information to the Senatethen  young people who want to work are being deliberately refused assistance by the Depanment in order that employers can obtain cheap labour for a restricted period. 
In view of the above, I must presume that your Officers are under instruction to assist employers, and not as I understood their function to be, to assist in the placement of unemployed persons. 
Because of the serious implications of the allegations I would be grateful if you would provide me with Commonwealth Employment Service policy on assistance in obtaining employment, particularly where it applies to young people. 
I hope that there has not been an instruction of the nature which I have found it necessary to imply in that letter to  Mr Clark.  Perhaps when I get a reply from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and have had time to look at the reply from  Mr Clark  I will have something further to say. 
During Estimates discussions certainly. I think it might be the basis of a very good speech in this House when these Estimates come up for consideration and passing by the Senate. If we could get a costing on the special youth employment training program perhaps the Government would see the practicability of putting that subsidy of $63 a week for six months for every person who 'creates a position for a young unemployed person' into public spending. Perhaps if the Government did that it would create positions itself and not have to rely on the employers of private labour. 
I am conscious that time is getting short, but I feel it is necessary to look at a number of other areas of the Budget proposals. I want first of all to touch on what is happening in this Government and on the messages that have been coming through loud and clear. I think it is important that we remember certain statements made by Ministers of this Government. People can only assess for themselves whether the Ministers are discredited or otherwise. In his 1976 Budget Speech  Mr Lynch  had this to say: 
We believe that the Budget should have been directed to two principal functions- the reduction of inflation and the revival of investment, output and employment. 
A little later he said: 
The second major thrust of this year's Budget should have been to stimulate private sector output and investment thereby creating conditions for a return to full employment. 
Members of this Government have endeavoured to play the game of pin the blame on others. We have heard it against the Industries Assistance Commission. We have heard it against the British immigrants who have infiltrated the trade union movement. We have heard it against the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. We have heard it against a lot of people including the private sector. But nowhere has the Government been able to establish that in actual fact the Press reportings of this Budget have been favourable.  Senator Walters  said earlier that of course they had been and that the achievements of the private sector-led recovery about which this Government is always talking was taking place. The Treasurer in his Budget Speech said: 
As we have emphasised, a re-vitalised private sector is essential to increased productivity and more jobs. 
Governments can only do so much; this Government has consistently pursued the course of making way for expansion of the private sector. 
It is now up to the private sector to play its part in furthering the progress we have made towards establishing, and building upon, the pre-conditions for economic recovery. 
I think it is a great pity that the Government forgot to inform the private sector of the role it was supposed to play in this remarkable recovery. 
I have some interesting figures which I would like also to have incorporated into  Hansard.  I want firstly the Senate to look at them. In June 1976 private employment fell by 4,500; in August 1976 it fell by 4,000; in September 1976 it fell by 600 and in November it fell by 1 1,400. In the year ending December 1976 over 7,000 private employment jobs were lost. In the same period 25,200 jobs were lost in the manufacturing industry in Australia. At the same time the Government is refusing to act on the recommendations of the fairly recently tabled White Paper on manufacturing. What of the private sector's capacity to cope this year? This is a full year after the first Lynch Budget. These figures show the real effect of the Government's policies. In January 1977 private employment fell by 1,400; in February 1977 it fell by 8,800 and in May 1977 it fell by 14,400. In fact the total private employment figure in May 1977 had fallen by a massive 45,500 over the corresponding figure for May 1976. So much for encouraging the private sector-led recovery. 
The disastrous figures that I have just quoted highlight the total inappropriateness of this Government's grab bag of policies, and that is the only term that one can apply to them. What we need now is additional public sector spending to absorb the unemployed and to stimulate private industries. We need to stimulate them, not to say that it is their total responsibility to accept that this Government is not capable of running the affairs of the nation and that it has to come back on the private employer to stimulate the economy. We had first of all the consumer-led recovery of the economy, but then it was realised that the consumers were not being given a great deal of money and schemes such as that which increased children's allowances were introduced. What the Government neglected to tell the recipients of that increase in children's allowances was that it was going to take the increase back by not allowing them a tax rebate for their children at the end of the year. That is not encouraging consumers to spend money because they realise that if they are not going to get a taxation rebate at the end of 12 months they will have to conserve the money that is available to them at the time it is paid. Private industry will not be encouraged to lead the recovery if there is no public spending to support it. 
This Government has to consider seriously whether it will allow Australia to continue to follow the course it is on at the present time or whether it will take a firm hold on the economy and come to grips with the situation, create more employment by public spending, and so sort out some of the ills that we have in Australia. I sup- port the amendment moved by the Leader of the O pposition. 

 - Mr President, I do not intend to delay the Senate for any length of time tonight but I think it is important in this particular week to remind the people in this chamber and in the rest of Australia of an event that is to happen on 7 October, namely, the trial of some 18 people in Thailand. A great deal of information has been provided to members of Parliament and I am quite sure that we are all aware of the SOTUFD-the Sixth October Thai United Front For Democracy- campaign in Victoria that was started some time ago in an endeavour to bring to the attention both of members of parliament and of parliament themselves that an injustice is being done to a number of people. I think it important enough for me to read a Press release from the Friends of the Thai People in Australia which puts the case of Orisa Irawonwut who was captured during the takeover- the coup- in Thailand on 6 October 1976. It reads: 
FRIENDS OF THE THAI PEOPLE IN AUSTRALIA 23 Smith Street, Fitzroy, Victoria 3065, Australia Press Release Dear friends who believe injustice and human rights. 
We, FRIENDS OF THE THAI PEOPLE IN AUSTRALIA, received letters from Orisa 's friends who asked us to begin an international campaign to save Orisa 's life. 
In the Klongpraim Central Prison in Thailand a political prisoner ORISA IRAWONWUT is dying from injuries received during the military coup that brought to power a military dictatorship in Thailand on 6 October, 19/6. Orisa has consistently been denied medical care and after eight months of this suffering, he cannot feed himself. He has to be fed through plastic tubes passed down his nose by his fellow prisoners who have been taking care of him. 
Orisa Irawonwut  President  of the United Front of Vocational Students for the People, was wounded on 6 October, 1976 while in charge of the head of the security officers of a National Student Centre in Thailand (NSCT) led demonstration. This demonstration was against the return of former dictator Thanom. Orisa was sent by the police to Siriraj Hospital for temporary medical care; he went home and was arrested. He was denied bail and taken to a temporary detention centre.  His  wound had not healed. 
He was next taken to LARDYAO Prison and then to a temporary detention centre at the Police Academy. During all this time he had been denied medical attention. He was next sent to Klongpraim Central Prison which has a good medical clinic but was still denied medical attention. His parents have repeatedly asked the prison authorities for permission to arrange medical care for him from outside the prison but they were denied these requests. 
Orisa's condition is deteriorating rapidly. His chin which had been infected is now decomposing. Even if he was to receive the best medical attention now he is unlikely to be able to talk or eat without assistance Denied medical care he will die in the next few weeks. 
We, Friends of the Thai People in Australia, as the coordinator for the Save Orisa's Life Campaign, demand that: 
Orisa be released on bail to receive medical care according to his and his family's choice'. 
We are putting forward this demand because the authorities of the regime has shown their inhumane nature by deliberately prohibiting medical care to Orisa. They have shown that they want to torture him to death, and there is no way their brutality can be changed. 
So the only way to save his life is to make sure that he must be given medical care according to his choice. 
It is not pleasant to have to read a document like that to the Australian Senate because in Australia we are comparatively free from dictatorship, although some of my friends who live in other States may disagree with me entirely. But I think we also have to express concern at a time like this as there have been talks very recently between Ministers from Thailand and the Australian Government, presumably about foreign aid. 
A communication I have informs me that the Interior Minister of Thailand was quietly flown to Australia by the Royal Australian Air Force on 19 September. He came to Australia because as Interior Minister he has responsibility for the project for accelerated rural development. The main purpose of his visit presumably was to ask for aid from the Australian Government. The project was initiated by the United States about 1960. It was meant to be a psychological warfare project against the liberation movement in Thailand. It was to operate only in sensitive areas but at that time only six provinces were involved. Presently more than half the country is defined as being in the sensitive area category. This means the complete failure of the project now that the US Government has indicated its tendency to have the project phased out. At the same time we understand that it would like to have the Australian Government fill its role. Two months ago it was reported in Thailand that the Australian Government had also provided $US25m to this project to operate in Surat Thani province. It is anticipated that the Australian Government will join more in this oppressive action against the Thai people. 
There are grave problems inherent in the accusations contained in these statements. There are also grave problems inherent in the reply of  Mr G.  K. Price, the Acting First Assistant Secretary of the South East Asia and Papua New Guinea Division of the Department of Foreign Affairs to a telegram addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on 21 June. The telegram expressed concern about the trials of student leaders in Thailand and the question of medical treatment for Orisa Irawonwut. The reply states: 
The Australian Government is, of course, deeply concerned at infringements of human rights wherever they may occur, and believes that in general as a matter of principle, political prisoners ought to be brought to a fair trial with as little delay as possible. The Government's attitude on this has been expressed publicly on a number of occasions. At the same time, the Government must be mindful of the need to avoid acting in such a way as to lay itself open to interference in the internal affairs of another country. 
The Australian Embassy in Bangkok reported on 29 June, on the basis of information provided by  Mr Peter  McMullin,  President  of the Association of Young Lawyers of Victoria, there was a good chance that  Mr Orisa  would receive satisfactory medical treatment in the near future. At a hearing on 23 June 1977, bail was approved in principle and it appeared that only formalities remained to secure his release. As well the Director-General of the Department of Corrections, who was previously ignorant of  Mr Orisa's  plight, has apparently taken an active interest in his welfare since 28 June 1977. 
As I said, there are 18 people coming to trial in a closed court on Friday of this week. Presumably the trial will continue for some time. I know that  Senator Missen  intends to speak on this matter and that he has much more up-to-date information than I have. But there are 18 students who have been subjected to all forms of torture in a prison in a country which is reported to be asking Australia for aid. I question now whether in actual fact we have the right to say or whether we can accept the responsibility for saying that we will provide aid to a country which obviously has no concern and no care for human rights. 
The SOTUFD of Victoria has sent communications to every member of Parliament. They ask purely and simply that as we are members of parliament and as we are concerned with the welfare and the well being of people who do not have the availability of proper trials, we protest to the Prime Minister of Thailand or to the King of Thailand. I hope that following the adjournment debate tonight a number of people in this chamber and in the other place will join with me in forwarding to both of those people and to  Mr Kurt  Waldheim, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, a telegram of protest, imploring the United Nations to ensure that people who are entitled to human rights at all times at least have these shown in the form of a proper trial on Friday of this week. 
I am aware that I do occasionally dream in technicolour but that tirade from  Senator Steele  Hall could only be described as a supersonic nightmare. The matters I want to raise tonight are of extreme importance. They are important not only to me but also to a large number of Australian people. I want to talk about an organisation known as the Aboriginal Medical Service which was set up in Sydney in 1971. I will refer to the Redfern branch of the Service in a moment, but I want to talk firstly about what applies to the Service in Western Australia. I want to look at a rather incredible document dated 9 September from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in that State. Together with that document is to be found a suggested scale of wages to be paid to the professional and non-professional staff employed by the Aboriginal Medical Service. 
The thing that disturbs me is that some of the scales are not only below the levels acceptable to people who have worked hard and long to obtain degrees, but also that some are even below the scales accepted by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs since the inception of the Aboriginal Medical Service. For a typical example one has only to look at the figure for a social worker in the 1974-75 Budget, which was then $15,000. The Department acknowledged the need for having either a Grade 2 or Grade 3 social worker by admitting that a social worker would require that amount of money. But what do we find in this document? In column 3 of this document, which denotes the salary approved by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs on 10 March 1977 as a per annum salary, we find the amount of $14,247. In column 4 the payroll in September 1977 is shown as $14,247- in other words, the amount approved by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs back in March. But when we come to column 5, which shows the suggested scales, what do we find? We find that the scales range from $9,617 to $12,759- the salary of a social worker class 1. A little note underneath sets a degree minimum of $10,148. 
I ask the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to justify how it can suggest to a social worker that he or she should be quite prepared to take a drop in salary to the extent of $2,500 a year. That is not the only one. For instance, the nursing sisters' salary, which was approved at $10,000 in March this year, is now to range between $8,697 and $9,987. We find, for instance, that the approved rate for a welfare assistant of $8,500 m March is now reduced to $7,165 or $7,432. Very few of the amounts approved by the Department in March 1977 are supposed to be applying now. 
Another problem is that I have not been able to find any of the professional staff or even the non-professional staff at the Aboriginal Medical Service in Perth- I visit it quite frequently-who have even been asked just what their duties entail. They have not even been consulted as to the hours they work, the number of patients they see or just what their duties are. So I then have to ask the Department how it assesses the worth of a worker if no one bothers to find out just what work that worker does. We have to look at the other aspects of this document too. The suggestion is being made to the  Chairman  of the Board of Management of the Aboriginal Medical Servicethat is the person to whom the correspondence is addressed- that all of the staff and in particular the white professional staff are being paid at a rate which is much higher than they could expect to be paid in any other position outside the Aboriginal Medical Service. That is just not so. It is an imputation that is demonstrably untrue in a number of cases amongst both the professional and the non-professional staff. I believe that imputations of that nature can have serious effects on the good relations which have been established between the Aboriginal governing council and the paid staff of the Aboriginal Medical Service in Perth. 
Let us look at the Aboriginal Medical Service in Redfern. We all have read the newspapers over the last few months and know that it has been suggested to the members of the professional medical staff that they might find it necessary to accept a lowering of their salaries or even not to collect any salaries at all in order to provide an essential service to the Aboriginal people in Sydney. I know that even more people, people throughout Australia, were concerned to learn that $ 16.6m of the 1976-77 Budget was not spent by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and that actually $13m was returned to Consolidated Revenue. Perhaps the person who knows most of all what goes on in the area of the Aboriginal Medical Service in New South Wales is Naomi Mayers. She is the Administrator of the Aboriginal Medical Service. This is what she had to say in a letter published in the  Canberra Times  on 16 September 1977 under the heading Budget Underspent': 

 Sir,- A deep sense of anger, disillusionment and concern is the response of the Aboriginal community to the report that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs had underspent its budget for the 1976-77 financial year by $16.6 million and that $ 1 3 million will go back into consolidated revenue. 
The $ 1 3 million which was meant for desperately-needed programs will now be denied the Aboriginal community. The implications of this action are devastating- they will be best measured in terms of the grave human suffering that will result. 
Aborigines have the tragic distinction of experiencing the highest death rate, the worst health and housing and the lowest educational, occupational, economic, social and legal status of any section of the Australian population. The Government s latest decision further denies them the opportunity of improvement. In a time when action is urgently needed the Government has chosen to reduce its involvement. 
An explanation by  Mr Viner,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, is urgently needed. 
I notice that we have not got it yet, but it is still urgently needed. The letter goes on: 
First, why did such a large underspending of funds take place? 
Second, why did his department reduce funding and refuse to fund many desperately needed programs throughout 1976-77 on the basis that there were insufficient funds available? 
Third, what steps have been taken to retain the remaining $ 1 3 million of the unspent funds for spending on projects in the 1977-78 financial year? 
Fourth, what steps has he taken to ensure that such a situation will not occur again? 
On National Aborigines Day the Minister stated 'On the administrative side of Aboriginal Affairs I am determined that the credibility of my department should be restored and raised '. 
In view of his Department's recent actions the words of  Mr Viner  who is also the Minister Assisting the Treasurer, are irresponsible and hypocritical. 
NAOMI MAYERS Administrator, Aboriginal Medical Service. 
Redfern, NSW 
-No. They could not say that in the area of Aboriginal affairs. That is one area about which they could not say it. There was never any concern about  Senator Cavanagh  or any of the other Labor Ministers for Aboriginal Affairs. 
-I do not intend to stand here and defend  Senator Cavanagh.  He is quite capable of doing that himself, if he so desires, at a later stage.  Senator Jessop  is only intent on taking up the time of the Senate on inanities. It is also important that we look at another document. 
-I am quite sure that if  Senator Cavanagh  had $ 13m in his pocket one area in which he would be quite intent on spending it would be the area of Aboriginal Affairs. Let us look at a ministerial briefing document from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs dated 27 September 1976. After going through the preliminaries of giving the background of the Service in 1971 and the number of employees, it goes on to discuss the nitty gritty, that is, the money required to operate the Service. It shows in some detail that there was a request for $602,013 for 1976-77. Taking into consideration the returns from Medibank, which are estimated to be something like $75,000, it is still a reasonably small amount to provide a much warranted and much needed service. Would  Senator Jessop  agree? 
-Good. This is what the people running the Service saw as their desperate need, their absolute minimum requirement. In fact what did they get? They did not get the $602,013 that they required. They got $302,000, which is just slightly over half of what they asked for. If we look at this rather momentous document for just a moment we see a delightful statement at the bottom of the second page- delightful in that it was made by a member of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs discussing  Ms Naomi  Mayers' representations to the Minister in 1976-77. Obviously, her representations were made on behalf of the Aboriginal Medical Service to obtain funds. Under the general heading   Ms Mayer  's Representations ' it says: 
Incidentally  Ms Mayers  discovered the programmed allocation for the AMS during the course of the Eastern Area programming conference - 
As a matter of interest to the four Government senators who are on the benches in this chamber at the moment, I mention that these people have since boycotted the eastern area programming conferences because they realise that they are a waste of time while this Government is in office. The document continues:   but was unwilling at that stage to suggest cuts to other projects to increase the AMS allocation . . . 
I think that is one of the most audacious statements I have ever seen in a ministerial briefing document. It is audacious that a person in a department should assume that an administrator of the Aboriginal Medical Service would be prepared to nominate areas for cutting expenditure on vital projects so that more money could be made available to her particular service. I think it is more than audacious, and I would hope that that would be the one and only time I would have evidence of such an occurrence. 
What do we find for this year? This year will be a very interesting year in the Aboriginal Medical Service in Redfern. This year it asked for $565,000. 1 will repeat the figure it received last year. It was $302,000. This year it asked for $565,000, with an additional $60,000 for a nutritional program. What did it receive this time? It received $360,000, or just fractionally over half of what it needed. If we take into consideration the fact that $ 100,000 of that belongs to the building program, actually it has received less than half of its requirements. It has been told that the $60,000- in other words, the nutritional program, a most vital area for the health of all Aboriginal people- is under consideration. There is no country service any more. There is not likely to be a country service while this Government is in office. There is no way that it will give any consideration to the needs of the Aboriginal people in the cities, let alone in the country areas. We know that Aboriginals in country areas suffer the worst health problems. 

 - Senator Jessop may have his problems in the country. Let me assure the honourable senator that I am always welcome in the country areas. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order!  Senator Jessop  will have his turn later. 
-The Aboriginal Medical Service in Perth has had letters from Aboriginal people in the north of Western Australia almost begging it to set up some type of Aboriginal health service and to make it available to Aboriginal people in towns in that area. There is no way that the Service will be able to do so because it does not have enough money to run its services this year either. This Government is getting away with not spending the funds that have been appropriated through this Parliament. When the Estimates come up for consideration we appropriate money to be spent on a specific project. Yet we allow this Government to get away with not spending money in vital areas of need. This Government has made promises to the people of Australia. It has broken those promises. We have a right and a responsibility to make people aware that the Government is breaking those promises. 
I will take a few minutes to say some final words for my part on the subject of Aboriginals. I do not know what other people speaking on the first reading of these two money Bills will discuss. My final words on Aboriginals are that I am disturbed at a report that was given to me on the telephone from Perth this morning that the Aboriginal fringe dwellers who travelled across the Nullarbor to Canberra a few weeks ago specifically to see the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  have now had their social security benefits taken away from them. I am given to understand that the benefits have been taken away because the people were not available during two particular weeks at a particular point. As I said, this information was given to me on the telephone this morning. 
-The person who told me is a reasonable authority on this matter. Today is Wednesday. It is becoming traditional that in Parliament House on a Wednesday we do not get the Western Australian newspapers delivered. I may get mine some time tomorrow afternoon. I am not even sure that will happen. I am hoping that, sooner or later, Wednesday's papers will come to light and I will be able to establish whether the Press in Western Australia saw fit to run the story. The  AM  program certainly ran it together with an interview this morning in Western Australia. The information was given to me because of my concern about the Aboriginal problem in Western Australia and in all other States in our great nation. Whilst I was concerned that perhaps the time was not opportune for those fringe dwellers to travel across Australia and whilst I was concerned that perhaps they may not have made sufficient - 
These are the people who have gradually been usurped from thenland. If the honourable senator does not know what fringe dwellers are let me explain. They are people who live around the fringes of the metropolitan areas, because the Government does not see fit to give them land or housing. 
-Oh, yes. That is a very apt comment coming from the senator from the N orthern Territory. He would have a great knowledge of the Aboriginal problem in Western Australia. He would have a great knowledge of the problem of Aboriginals, full stop. I may not have necessarily agreed with the fringe dwellers' journey across the Nullarbor. I may not have necessarily agreed that they had to travel at that time. Because that was the time that they had decided to travel, and it was their intention to come to Canberra, I fully supported their trip. I fully support them now. I will continue to support them until I make sure that they will not be subjected to all kinds of indignities because of the failure of this Government to meet promises that were made. We all know of the infamous telegram that was - 
Or even to comply with the law. That would be sufficient. Unfortunately where Aborigines are concerned it is not always necessary in the eyes of a lot of people that the law be applied. 
I wish to talk also about the Press and its irresponsibility in not reporting events as they happen. I will give two particular instances. One is in relation to a Press release made in Queensland. We can only blame Queensland newspapers here. We know what the State of Queensland is like. We cannot really pretend that its newspapers are any better than the Government. Let me tell honourable senators about a little happening. It is rather like a round robin sequence. Last night I am given to understand that the Minister for Education in that great State of Queensland got on the telephone to the Director of Education who then got on the telephonepresumably they were frightened to commit anything to paper in case someone leaked it- to regional directors of education, who in turn got on the telephone to various principals of high schools and I presume tertiary education institutions who were given instructions that the building society problem was not to be discussed within the ambit of the school. That is dictatorship at its worst. When a Minister determines what will be discussed inside classrooms, we are inhibiting people from knowing exactly what goes on. But the Press in adopting this attitude that it will tell us what it thinks we should know, did not even bother to run the story. 
This brings me to another point- the subject of the unemployed. I spoke at great length yesterday.  Senator Jessop  should have been in the chamber. He would have enjoyed my hour long speech on the Budget. I had a lot to say about unemployment. 
If  Senator Jessop  had been here during my speech, I am quite positive that he would have requested that I be given an extension of time because of his concern with the matters that I was discussing. Let us talk about the unemployed. Let us talk about the attitude of the Press to the unemployed. The only time the unemployed are mentioned in the Press is when the statistics come out on how many people are unemployed in this country or when someone calls them dole bludgers or some equally unflattering term. I want to talk about a small group of people who were observed in the streets of Perth some two or three weeks ago. They were genuinely unemployed. They were clean. They were tidy. They were genuinely concerned that they were unemployed. Almost spontaneously they had hand drawn placards and they had proceeded to walk around the streets of Perth asking people, almost begging people, to help them find work. We do not even give consideration perhaps to the fact that 98 per cent and perhaps even 100 per cent of the unemployed are genuinely unemployed. 
In that figure of course there would be some who were unemployed - 

 - Senator Jessop, would you mind shutting up? There are only three Government supporters in the chamber now. I have obviously managed to frighten one off. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Coleman,  will you address the Chair please? 
I would be delighted to, except that  Senator Jessop  endeavours to distract my attention. He knows that I have only 8 minutes left. He does not want me to complete what I have to say. I thought it rather a marvellous idea that these people had found it necessary to make their own placards to demonstrate that they were genuinely concerned about being unemployed and that they were intent to get work. I would like to think that all unemployed throughout Australia would demonstrate to the people of Australia that they are genuinely unemployed because of the policies of this Government. This Government will not spend money in the public sector. 
We are still hearing about this mad private sector recovery. I was able to provide figures in the chamber yesterday to prove that the private sector does not even know it has to accept this responsibility. It does not even know how to accept this responsibility. I do not even recall the  West Australian  running anything about this group of protesters. Obviously the newspaper thought that that was something we did not want to know about. I would hope that if in actual fact the unemployed in country towns and in major cities throughout Australia decide to demonstrate in this way perhaps the Press will realise that the unemployed are not dole bludgers and that they are genuinely concerned with finding work. Then perhaps we will get the Press to cover the full story, the true story, of the unemployed. 
While I am talking about demonstrations- I have a few minutes left and I intend to take my full time- let me talk about what will take place in Perth on 21 October. We will give the people of Perth the opportunity to demonstrate their wishes with regard to a very important issue. That is the issue of uranium. The 'Be active today, not radioactive tomorrow' march will take place at 5. 1 5 from the Esplanade in Perth. A permit to hold the march has been applied for and I am quite sure there will not be any problems in Western Australia. We conduct peaceful demonstrations wherever we go. 
In Queensland we do not have to worry about being allowed to march. We know that on 22 October a rally will be held in Queensland. We know that the same people have applied for permission to march. We know that they will not receive permission to march but we know that they will conduct a very peaceful stroll through the streets of Brisbane and eventually will form up at a rally. I will be there to tell the people what I dislike most about the uranium issue. I will encourage the people to demonstrate peacefully so that governments have to acknowledge the needs and wishes of people. 
Perhaps Queensland could be called the most dictator-like State in Australia. Western Australia runs a pretty close second but I would say that Queensland is on top at the moment. Of course, Charlie Court, the Western Australian Premier, has not had much time since he brought down his marvellous surplus Budget last week to turn his attention to such mundane things as controlling the people. He is busy union bashing over there in Western Australia and doing all sorts of nice things to people he considers to be nasty. His Minister for Labour and Industry is not doing a bad job, either. He is getting stuck into a few people. 
-This is the Honourable. Bill Grayden, yes,  Senator Mulvihill. 
He found himself in a little hot water the other day but perhaps that is best not discussed here as I was not present at the actual event. As I said, there are ample opportunities for the people of Australia to demonstrate their needs, to demonstrate their wishes and to demonstrate their concern not only on the issue of uranium and unemployment but also on the vital issue of broken promises, promises that were made prior to, during and after the election of this Government in December 1 975. 
We heard  Senator Hall  say a few minutes ago that the people of Australia would reject a Labor government in the near future. The people will not reject a Labor government in the near future. I have admitted to the Senate and I have admit' ted in other public places that perhaps the Labor Party did err in some ways whilst it was in government. I am not ashamed to admit that. I do not think anybody in my party is ashamed to admit it. But we learnt in the three years we were in government that we are capable of governing Australia. We are capable of fulfilling our promises. We intend to do exactly that when next we are elected to govern Australia. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, in discussions with the Pitjantjatjara Council at Amata on 3 August, undertake to contact the Premiers of Western Australia and South Australia and invite them to join him in passing legislation to provide for uniform land rights? Has the Minister honoured this undertaking? What reply, if any, has been received from the Premiers? Has the Western Australian Premier, or any person representing his Government, indicated an unwillingness to proceed with land rights legislation which provides mineral rights and royalties for Aboriginals? 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
What funds have been allocated to the Legal Aid Commission in Western Australia. 
What is the name of the Commonwealth 's representative on the Legal Aid Commission. 
What qualifications does the representative hold. 
Will the Attorney-General table the agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Western Australian Government relating to legal aid. 
Will copies of this agreement be made available to all Australian Legal Aid Office professional staff in Western Australia. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources by quoting the chief of the International Atomic Energy Agency who, at a conference in Vienna on 28 September, said: 
Let us remember that in the long run there is no way of stopping the spread of nuclear technology among nations and we must face the proliferation problems that result. 
How does the Government reconcile that statement from an authority such as the chief of the IAEA with the uranium statement made by this Government in August? Part of that statement reads: 
The export of Australian uranium will decrease the risks of further proliferation of nuclear weapons ... it will help make a safer world. 
Will the Government in the light of the information that is now to hand reconsider its uranium decision? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security and refer to an article in the  Daily News  of 4 October regarding five Aboriginal people who travelled from Perth to Canberra to protest about federal policies having their unemployment benefit stopped. I ask: On what grounds were those benefits stopped? 
As the people concerned were away from their normal place of residence for something less than two weeks but had been unemployed for between two and three years, were any possible employment opportunities available during their absence? If so, was the normal method of advice used to notify them that they were to report for employment? Have full benefits now been restored to all the people involved? 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and refers to a reply he gave to a question asked yesterday by  Senator McAuliffe  and the confirmation of that reply given earlier today by the Leader of the Government in relation to the funding for the Lake Julius water scheme in Queensland. In view of the fact that earlier this year the Premier of Queensland refused to pass on funds that had been allocated by the Federal Government to two women's refuges in that 
State- we have not yet been told what he did with that money, but it has now become necessary for the Minister for Social Security to make direct grants available to those centres- how can the Leader of the Government make as categorical a statement as he made earlier today? Is the Government already considering that it might be necessary to make Federal funds available directly to projects in that State if  Mr BjelkePetersen  remains Premier, if there is to be any guarantee at all that the moneys will be spent for the benefit of the people of Queensland. 
I was extremely pleased to hear  Senator Martin  speak in this debate. She had a number of things to say. One of the things she said that I felt was most important was her statement that she believed that people should have the right to march. I happened to be in her fair State a couple of weeks ago. I think it is a delightful State. Mind you, I do not necessarily agree with the views of all the people in Queensland; but all the people in Queensland do not agree with my views either. On a particular Saturday morning very rerecently there were at least 4,000 people who agreed with what I had to say. They were on the side which was opposite to that of the PremierJoh Bjelke-Petersen. 

 Senator Martin seems to think that we on this side of the chamber have some objection to the 
Massing of this Bill and to Queensland obtaining 24.8m. I have absolutely no objection at all. I recognise the great wealth of Queensland and the great contribution that that State has made to Australia's export earnings. The people who have come from there are contributing to the proceedings in this States' House. But I believe that the international reputation that Australia has at the moment is being damaged by the actions of one man. I think that governments have to act in a responsible way and, in my opinion, the Queensland Government is not doing that at this point in time. 
I believe that the incident that apparently occurred there on Wednesday night of this week, as reported in the  Australian  this morning, is deplorable. It is entirely irrelevant whether the woman involved in that incident was a former Miss Australia. I do not believe that that makes the slightest bit of difference. Whether the woman concerned was  Mrs Fred  Bloggs from down the corner or someone who lives 150 miles from Brisbane and who is from fairly poor circumstances makes not the slightest bit of difference to the fact that the Queensland Premier had the audacity and temerity to call a woman, irrespective of whether she was an Australian, a crow. We heard a little earlier the definition of the word 'crow'. That was a most despicable statement on the part of this man and I think that all Queenslanders will be shocked by it.  Mrs Helen  Bonner, the woman concerned, was certainly shocked by it. She said: 
Most of the town is upset that a former Miss Australia should be treated like that I have had phone calls from a lot of people on properties who are so upset that I was almost branded as a communist. I was brought up a Country Party voter, though I suppose you could call me a swinging voter now. 
I suggest that come 12 November there will be many swinging voters in Queensland who will, I hope, see the logic of casting their vote in the right direction. Whether they are voters in rural districts or in city electorates, they have now to realise that one man cannot be allowed to get away, as the Premier has been doing, with fooling the people into believing that he is the best thing that ever happened to Queensland. The report in the  Australian  stated that  Mrs Bonner  said that the Premier even inferred that she might be living out of wedlock with her husband, Chris. 
-That is the report in the newspaper. The honourable senator obviously has not read it. It reads: 

 Mrs Bonner said yesterday the Premier even inferred she might be living out of wedlock with her husband, Chris. 
I think that is deplorable. Even if she is, I do not think that it has anything to do with him. 
It has nothing to do with the Bill,  Senator, but  I will come to the Bill in a minute because I want to ask whether some of this money is to be spent. If the honourable senator wants me to turn to the Bill straight away, I will. But I make the point that we have a man in Queensland who has to realise that he can no longer stand over the people who live there without answering to them for the amount of money that he is supposed to spend. 
I asked a question about this matter this morning. I asked what had happened to the money that had been paid to the Queensland Government to fund two women's refuges. When the answer comes from the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  I hope he will be able to say where the money went because I do not think it has been returned to the Federal Government. I think Joh is probably still sitting on it or he has possibly used it for some other purpose. But we have a right to know what he is going to do with it.  Senator Missen  said that he hoped the money would be used wisely. I have heard  Senator Martin  say that there is a lot of nonsense being read about Queensland in the southern Press. This is an example of where the question of segregation comes m. Queenslanders refer to everybody else as being southerners. The Liberal member for the Federal seat of Brisbane,  Mr Peter  Johnson, told me that I had no right to be at that Brisbane rally which was held only a couple of weekends ago. I do not think he will be the sitting Liberal member for Brisbane very much longer. I told him to make sure that he had a good look around his electorate while I was there. 
I think we have a right and a responsibility to ask what money, for instance, was spent and where it came from. I understand that $30,000 was spent to bring an additional 1,000 policemen and policewomen from all over the State to be at the rally on that Saturday morning. Whose money was spent on that exercise? Was that in actual fact the same money that had been given for another purpose? Was this money that was used by the State Government? We have a right to know the answer to that question. 
It is a pity that, although this Parliament has the power to appropriate sums of money to the States, it has no way of forcing the States to spend it. We saw what happened in Western Australia when $4.5m was appropriated by this Parliament two years ago to be used for Aboriginal housing. But this money was not spent. Not a cent of it was spent although the Aborigines were crying out for it to be used for the purpose of housing. We have no way of ensuring that State Governments use the money. We can give money to them but this does not mean that they wm spend it. If we have a look at a report which appeared in the  Australian  today it does not appear that Commonwealth money will be spent in that State.  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  said that, if people in Mount Isa exercise their democratic right to vote for the individual they want to vote for and that individual just does not happen to be bis candidate, they are not likely to see the money for the Lake Julius Dam. I think that is a disgusting form of oppression. It is the most disgusting degree of politicking that we have seen in Australia and I hope that we would not see it again. 
-It is blackmailing the Queensland community. What is even worse, this is blackmailing industries which might be prepared to set up operations in these areas but which would be reliant on water that might be supplied from the dam in question. 

 - Senator, if you do not like to hear what I am saying, please go outside. You upset me when you almost doze off and then wake up. 
I do not mind the honourable senator being here. It is just that he looks as though he is asleep. I realise that the honourable senator is not asleep and I find that disturbing. I see that the honourable senator has left the chamber. I am sorry that he has found it necessary to do so. 

 Mr President, a senator from the Government side of the chamber said that I should get back to the Bill. 
Order! It being 10.30 p.m., in conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Consideration resumed. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is the Minister aware that two members of the Unemployed Workers Movement were arrested and charged while handing out pamphlets at the Commonwealth Employment Service offices in Perth recently? The pamphlet is entitled 'Rights and Legal Information if You're Unemployed' and contains advice of great importance to those people who find themselves without a job. Will the Minister advise who instigated the arrests and what charges have been laid? As already disadvantaged people can be even more seriously disadvantaged by not being aware of their legal rights, what action will be taken to incorporate the information contained in the document into official documents that would be readily available at all Commonwealth Employment Service and Department of Social Security offices? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1977: 
1 ) How many young people have been assisted with employment under the special youth employment and training program since its inception. 
How many individual employers or firms have employed people under the scheme. 
How many individual employers or firms have employed more than one person under the program. 
What is the average length of employment under the scheme. 
Allowing for those who have been employed for the full six-month training period, how many have continued in employment with the training employer. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 21 September 1977: 
1 ) Has the Government received complaints and objections from certain member countries of the European Economic Community concerning the nuclear safeguards policy the Austraiian Government announced on 24 May 1977; if so, what are these complaints. 
Do the main objections to the Australian nuclear safeguards policy relate to the application of the full International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards, a ban of more than 20 per cent U308 enrichment, and the requirement of prior Australian consent to re-export and re-process Australian uranium. 
Do these three policy points form the backbone of the Australian safeguard system. 
How effective will the Australian nuclear safeguard system be if member countries of the European Economic Community will not accept these safeguards. 
Will the Australian Government continue to refuse to supply uranium to any countries which will not accept these safeguards. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 21 September 1977: 
1 ) Did the Prime Minister state in his policy statement of 24 May 1977 that 'we would also expect responsible customer countries for Australian uranium to readily accept our safeguards'. 
Does the Government stand unequivocally by this statement; if not, why not 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 3 October 1977: 
How many unemployed (a) females; (b) males; and (c) persons under the age of 21 years were in the following towns or districts of Western Australia at the end of each month since January 1975: Wyndham and Kununurra. 
) How many of these persons have been unemployed for more than 6 months. 
What percentage of the total workforce in each town or district do these figures represent. 
How many persons have been or are being employed under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme in each town or district. 
How many persons have applied for employment under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme in each town or district and have had their applications refused. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
How many unemployed (a) females; (b) males; and (c) persons under the age of 21 years were in the following towns or districts of Western Australia at the end of each month since January 1975: Mount Tom Price, Hamersley and Mt Newman. 
How many of these persons have been unemployed for more than 6 months. 
What percentage of the total workforce in each town or district do these figures represent. 
How many persons have been or are being employed under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme in each town or district. 
How many persons have applied for employment under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme in each town or district and have had their applications refused. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
How many unemployed (a) females; (b) males; and (c) persons under the age of 21 years were in the following towns or districts of Western Australia at the end of each month since January 197S: Derby, Beagle Bay, Broome, Halls Creek, and Fitzroy Crossing. 
How many of these persons have been unemployed for more than 6 months. 
What percentage of the total workforce in each town or district do these figures represent. 
How many persons have been or are being employed under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme in each town or district. 
How many persons have applied for employment under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme in each town or district and have had their applications refused. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
How many unemployed (a) females; (b) males; and (c) persons under the age of 21 years were in the following towns or districts of Western Australia at the end of each month since January 1975: Port Hedland, Karratha, Dampier, Roebourne, Mount Goldsworthy and Whim Creek. 
How many of these persons have been unemployed for more than 6 months. 
What percentage of the total workforce in each town or district do these figures represent. 
How many persons have been or are being employed under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme in each town or district. 
How many persons have applied for employment under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme in each town or district and have had their applications refused. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
How many unemployed (a) females; (b) males; and (c) persons under the age of 21 years were in the following towns or districts of Western Australia at the end of each month since January 1975: Geraldton and Carnavon 
2 ) How many of these persons have been unemployed for more than 6 months. 
What percentage of the total workforce in each town or district do these figures represent. 
How many persons have been or are being employed under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme in each town or district. 
How many persons have applied for employment under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme in each town or district and have had their applications refused. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 October 1977: 
How many unemployed (a) females; (b) males; and (c) persons under the age of 21 years were in the following towns or districts of Western Australia at the end of each month since January 1975: Albany, Norseman, Esperance, Kambalda and Kalgoorlie. 
) How many of these persons have been unemployed for more than 6 months. 
What percentage of the total workforce in each town or district do these figures represent. 
How many persons have been or are being employed under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme in each town or district. 
How many persons have applied for employment under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Scheme in each town or district and have had their applications refused. 
I feel sure that it is because this Parliament has been in recess for the last three months that so many of us are anxious to speak in the adjournment debate tonight. I hope that it will not be a continuing thing, as our hours are quite long enough. I feel that it is important that I participate in the adjournment debate tonight in order to bring to the attention of the Senate an incident that occurred at Perth Airport on 3 January. It is only because I have not received a reply from the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  to my communication of 12 January that I raise the matter. On 20 January I received from him a standard acknowledgement saying that he would write to me as soon as possible on the matter. That is now nearly five weeks ago. It is now more than seven weeks since the incident occurred. To the best of my knowledge, no action has been taken. 
The issue relates to a  Ms Franci  Williams and her husband,  Mr Les  Stein. They are both Canadian citizens. They both have permanent resident status in Australia. They have both been here for three and a half years. To the best of my knowledge, neither has ever been suspected of any infringement of the laws of this country. They may have either collectively or individually held views different from those of other people. They may have come to the attention of other people because of those different views. I remember that at one time  Mr Stein  was quite outspoken when a fuel and energy Bill was being introduced into the Western Australian Parliament. I know that he has been involved with environmental groups. 
I know that  Mr Stein  gives free legal advice on a talk-back radio program in Western Australia one day a week. Perhaps that could be a reason for the events of 3 January. Perhaps we should not expect to get free legal advice. Perhaps we are so well endowed with lawyers- barristers, solicitors and Queen's Counsel- in this place that it appears strange that someone would like to give free legal advice. Perhaps I am being a little facetious, and I should not be because to me it is a most serious matter. I also know that  Mr Stein  is considered to be an authority on planning law and environment law. I know that he has written a book on urban planning in Australia that is used as a textbook in law schools around the nation. I know that he has been appointed an associate editor of the international legal journal  Urban Law and Policy  and that he is the editorinchief of the  University of Western Australia Law Review. 

 Mr Stein is 32 years of age. He began his academic career with a Bachelor of Arts degree in New York in 1965. He took a law degree in Ontario in 1968 and a master's degree in law at the University of Toronto in 1 970. In that year he was admitted to the Ontario Bar with first class honours. Later that year he took a lecturing post at Monash University and then went to the University of Melbourne. He went back to Toronto for a period of three years and then accepted a position as senior lecturer in law at the University of Western Australia. He is a director on the board of the Population Research Foundation in Ontario. He is also a member of the International Commission of Jurists in Perth. From what I have said, I think that the members of the Senate will agree with me when I say that  Mr Stein  has a tremendous background and a tremendous capacity. I think that we should be very proud indeed that he has chosen to accept the post of senior lecturer in law at the University of Western Australia. 
Because of his position and because of his background and the work that he has done it is not strange that he received an invitation to present papers at the University of India and to address local government groups to put forward his ideas on urban planning laws. That is a particular interest of his. He is recognised as an authority on the subject and I think they would have thought they were pretty lucky to get him for a study tour. The University of Western Australia was only too happy to pay for his fare. Let me mention here that  Mr Stein's  appointment at the University of Western Australia is a permanent one. I think I am right also when I say that he does have tenure, that he cannot be sacked except for gross misconduct. 
Because of the invitation to India his wife,  Ms Franci  Williams, decided to accompany him for the first two weeks and have a bit of a holiday there. So they employed a babysitter to look after their children, a six-year old girl and a four-year old boy. They obtained the necessary documentation to allow them to leave Australia, to enter India and also to return, they thought, to Australia without harrassment. One of his colleagues at the university informed me that 'Les 
Stein's always been interested in all things Indian'. I would go a little further than that and say that from my very limited knowledge of both  Ms Williams  and  Mr Stein  they are interested in all things. They are interested in people. 
On 3 January, at the end of her two weeks,  Ms Williams  returned to Australia on a British Airways flight from Singapore and arrived at the Perth airport at approximately 11 o'clock at night. She presented her documents, including the re-entry visa, to the immigration officials. She was asked to wait, and another official was signalled. He took her passport and asked her to accompany him to an office. In that office there was an official of some sort whose name was not mentioned. He did not pay her the courtesy of introducing himself. He simply said that he wanted to establish that she was indeed the person that they were after. So after some fairly comprehensive questioning and apparently having satisfied him that she was indeed the person that they- whoever 'they' may have beenwanted, she was taken to a detention room and guarded by two Commonwealth policemen. She was a little curious, of course, and on a couple of occasions she asked why she was being held but no one bothered to give her a reply, except on one occasion the official said that she would find out in due course. 
She asked- quite courteously, I believe, and quite correctly- to be able to make a phone call. That request was refused. She asked that her two children- as I mentioned, a girl aged six and a boy aged four- who were waiting in the airport lounge to be allowed in to see her. That request was refused. She was taken back to the office for further interrogation- and I use that word advisedly. I do not think any other interpretation could be put upon it. It was only then, some one hour afteer the plane had landed, that she learned that because of a possible association- I repeat 'a possible association'- with the spiritual group Ananda Marga she could be deported that night. 
There appears to have been quite a deal of shuffling between detention rooms under Commonwealth police guard and back to this official who preferred to remain nameless before anything was done. She informed me that at one stage whilst he was asking her questions he was also on the telephone to another official and he was repeating every word that she said. There also appears to have been a certain amount of time spent in trying to get information from  Ms Williams  that she just did not have. They wanted to know exactly where her husband was. She knew that he was in India. She did not know exactly where in India he was. He was to contact her within a few days and advise her of an arrival date. He was to tell her where he was and he was to give her an entire program once it had been set down, but she did not know where he was at that time. The officer was determined that she should find out exactly where he was before she would be allowed to go. 
No compassion at all appears to have been shown by the bureaucrats employed that night at the Perth airport. It was more than an hour after her arrival before the children were allowed to see her, and even that was not done without threat. She was informed that, but for the children, she would not be allowed to go home that night but would be kept at the airport until a flight out could take her back to Singapore. No one suggested, of course, that she might not have the funds to get to Singapore, but that seemed to be irrelevant. The implied threat was that her husband would not have the excuse of the 2 children when and if he arrived back in Australia. At about one o'clock in the morning  Ms Williams  was allowed to go home, with the final instruction that she was to present herself at the passports office the next day with the children, their passports and their birth certificates. No one knows why the children's birth certificates were required and no one has yet told me why she had to appear at the passports office. However, I am hoping that following tonight's adjournment debate I will get a reply. 
There is a lot of confusion about the whole interview. Whilst  Ms Williams  says that two Commonwealth policemen guarded her in a detention room,  Mr Richards  of the passports office informed me on the phone that she was not even held. She has claimed that she was not allowed to make a telephone call but  Mr Richards  has said that she was not held. I thought it was fairly normal that in most circumstances a person picked up even on a murder charge is entitled to make one phone call, but apparently a murder charge and the Immigration Department at the Perth airport are two separate and entirely different things and the same courtesies do not apply. One has to assume, therefore, that it was the possible association with the Ananda Marga sect which was responsible for all the kerfuffle at the airport. I know that  Ms Williams  and  Mr Stein  openly admit that they have adopted the Ananda Marga philosophy to the extent that they meditate and are vegetarians. I am informed that that is their total commitment to the Ananda Marga philosophy. They are not members of the Ananda Marga sect. 
One would hope that 5 weeks would be quite long enough for the Minister to have established why the distressing circumstances of 3 and 4 January occurred at all. There has to be a reason, and I think the Senate will agree that the one I got from  Mr Richards  is not satisfactory. But he did tell me that it was at ministerial direction. The Minister has not told us why he gave that direction or even if he gave it. He has simply said: I shall write to you on the matter as soon as possible', and that was on 20 January. As I pointed out in my letter to the Minister on 12 January, I cannot and will not condone the sort of treatment meted out to  Ms Williams  being meted out to anybody who comes back and legitimately tries to be reinstated as a permanent resident in Australia. I do not believe that this treatment was necessary, and I reminded the Minister that all of this occurred at a time when  Ms Williams  was most vulnerable. She had left her husband in a relatively strange country- admittedly only temporarilynevertheless she had left him. She had had a long and probably tiring plane trip, and of course she was most anxious to be reunited with her children. 
If a mistake was made I believe that the Minister should be prepared to extend an apology not only to  Ms Williams  but also to her husband.  Mr Stein  was subjected to a certain amount of concern on his wife's behalf and also on his own behalf. He was concerned, of course, about what might happen when he returned to Australia, and because of that concern he incurred a certain amount of expense that he need not have incurred. He was also subjected to a situation where it was impossible for him to remain and present the papers that he had been invited to present in the first place. He did not know what was happening to his wife in the meantime. He did not know what would happen to him when he arrived back. He had to take cheap accommodation while in India, in an endeavour to save sufficient funds in the event of finding, when he tried to re-enter Australia, that he might have to pay his fare back to Singapore or some place else. Of course he had to make a number of expensive telephone calls from Bombay to Perth. He also had to obtain legal representation for both himself and his wife. He has since turned down an offer to go overseas later this year to present more papers and to discuss his urban planning, because of his concern that Australian officials will see that as an excuse not to allow him to return. 
The situation when  Mr Stein  came back into Australia was a little different. I was amazed at the speed with which one can clear Customs when one comes in with a re-entry visa.  Mr Stein's  wife had to wait three days before her reentry visa was stamped, but his foot was hardly out of the door of the plane before officers were taking his passport and his visa off him to stamp and making sure that he was the first through the immigration procedures. I went out to meet him at the airport to ensure that if there were any questioning I would be advised and I would be present. I do not think, in view of what I have said, that I am being unreasonable in asking the Minister for a satisfactory explanation and for an apology to be forwarded to both  Ms Williams  and  Mr Stein. 

 Ms Williams is a highly sensitive woman.  Her  daughter is a highly sensitive person. She has been greatly affected by the traumatic experience suffered by her mother. She is old enough to understand that something terrible was happening that may have prevented her from being reunited with her father when she expected to.  Mr Stein  is also a highly sensitive person. All he wants is that he and his family can live in the particular lifestyle they have chosen, without harassment, and secure in the knowledge that because of that lifestyle and because they have not done anything wrong they do not have to worry about being deported from Australia, where they have chosen now to live. 
I believe that both these people are entitled to an apology. If the decision was taken, as  Mr Richards  informed me, at ministerial direction, of course the apology has to come from the Minister. If it was at the direction of someone in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the officer responsible for the direction should be located. Because he comes under the jurisdiction of the Minister, I believe the Minister should accept the responsibility of that officer's action and forward an apology on that officer's behalf. I hope that a satisfactory explanation is forthcoming. I hope that it will not take the Minister a further five weeks to explain what happened and why it happened to a very genuine and wellrespected member of the Western Australian community. I sincerely hope that it will not happen again. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. I remind her that last year she said that of 205 field officers in the Department 84 officers were employed on routine inquiries associated with unemployment benefit and 12 1 officers were employed in a wide range of field duties associated with pension claims. I ask the Minister whether the 250 field officers in the Department at present work in the same proportion, that is, 40 per cent associated with unemployment and 60 per cent with other pension claims. I further ask: If that is not so, and all 250 officers are now investigating unemployment beneficiaries, how long will they be away from their other duties? 
In speaking to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply I initially join honourable senators from both sides of the chamber in extending my congratulations to  Senator Haines  on her maiden speech. I felt it was a very worthwhile contribution, and I sincerely trust that the Government will take serious note of her remarks. It becomes increasingly apparent- remembering that this is the third speech in the Address-in-Reply debate that I have made in three and a half years- that it is almost traditional that members of the Senate use the occasion either to condemn or to congratulate their particular State government on its achievements or its lack of achievements in the preceding period. There are many things that 1 wish to say tonight about my State of Western Australia. 
Western Australia, as honourable senators know, was called 'The Wildflower State'. Those of us who wished to be patriotic in a State sense could spend a few dollars on the purchase of a special plate, which could be attached to the number plate of one's motor vehicle, proclaiming that one came from 'The Wildflower State'. Unfortunately, because of the cold and sometimes callous burning and clearing of roadside verges by shire councils, the fairly indiscriminate clearing of large areas by developers and the plundering of native forests by mining companies, we can no longer claim to be 'The Wildflower State'. Indeed, the State government has now decreed that consumers of motor vehicles, that is, people who use motor vehicles, in the State of Western Australia will now be forced to carry around the slogan 'Western AustraliaThe State of Excitement'. That slogan might have been applicable to Western Australia some 20 to 30 years ago when we were on the brink of our mineral boom, but it can no longer apply as a slogan anymore than 'The Wildflower State'. We have permitted the mining interests to interfere with and even to stop the natural germination process that occurs from the high combustion caused by bush fires. 
-He and a few others. Of course native flora just gets in the way of development of the 'State of Excitement'. The State Government's concern about the preservation of native forests is clearly evident in the commissioning of the Stanford Research Institute $70,000 review of land use in the Darling Ranges which is one of the few areas close to the city that we can proudly say has native forests. We take our visitors from other States and proudly display the forests to them. 
For those honourable senators who are not familiar with the program, let me just say that the State Government of Western Australia through the Department of Industrial Development has invited Alcoa of Australia Ltd to share in the costs of the review by the Stanford 
Research Institute because of Alcoa's mining interests in the area. It takes little imagination on my pan- I do not know about the imagination of other honourable senators- to realise how impartial that report will be. The major protagonist is paying the lion 's share of the bill. Alcoa is meeting $40,000 of the costs, but the State Government is paying only $30,000. Apart from the destruction of native forests there is the very real threat to the water catchment area around the site. There has been considerable conflict in the community about the use of forests for timber production, water conservation and/or bauxite mining. I personally do not believe that the affected area should be at the mercy of collaboration between the State Government and big business. For the Premier  Sir Charles  Court to say, as he did in the  Western Australian  of 20 February, that a report of its findings would be made to the Government and not to Alcoa is laughable. It is cause for a great deal of humour amongst environmentalist because not only will Alcoa have progress reports of the study but it will also have the advantage of knowing what the final report contains before it even hits the State Parliament. 
One of the many disadvantages of living in the State of Excitement' is the severe water restrictions that apply at the moment, purely and simply because of a lack of foresight on the part of State governments many years ago. The price of the water that is available has been subjected to massive increases, just like the costs of all the other essential services. Perhaps members from other States may not be aware that in Western Australia we have had water restrictions since last October. In the intervening period the metropolitan area has received one day's rain. I know that the situation in the wheat belt is perhaps a little different. Because the State government lacked the foresight that I spoke of earlier-- 
True, very true, but because our State governments did not have the foresight to cater adequately for the needs of a growing metropolis it has been found necessary to pump up from our water-table millions of litres or millilitres- I am not terribly sure about the metric system so perhaps I can just say millions of gallons- into our natural catchment system. It is no longer possible for anybody in the metropolitan area- I am sure that other members from Western Australia will agree with me- to get a glass of cold water out of the kitchen tap. The water is warm. It is coming directly from the water-table. 
Let us look at the increases in cost of the provision of essential services such as the provision of water to people who live in the metropolitan area. Between 1974-75 and now metropolitan water rates have increased by 60.3 per cent; country water rates of course have gone up by only 92 per cent! In the same period excess water rates have gone up by a dramatic 143 per cent. Sewerage rates have risen by 83.3 per cent. Drainage rates have increased by 33.3 per cent. As I said before, it is not just in respect of those essential water services that increases have occurred in my 'State of Excitement'. The cost of electricity has increased by 85 per cent; the cost of gas has increased by 6 1 per cent; and metropolitan rail and bus fares have gone up 60 per cent. Motor vehicle licence fees have gone up a significant 1 14.5 per cent in the same period, but then someone has to pay for the new number plates we are being forced to carry around. 
Westrail freight rates have risen by 62 per cent. That has a positive effect on the spending power of people living outside the metropolitan area. Drivers licence fees have gone up by only 132.4 percent! 
-By 132.4 per cent,  Senator Mulvihill.  The State Government Insurance Office rates have increased by 52 per cent and for this it provides the consumers of government insurance with very little service, I can assure honourable senators, having had personal experience of its service a very short time ago. Metropolitan State Housing Commission rents have averaged an increase of 75.7 per cent plus a $60 management fee. In actual fact this is a bond which people who go into SHC housing have to pay. SHC rents in the country areas have gone up 90.92 per cent. There is not one area of Western Australian Government participation in which there have not been massive increases. Hospital fees have gone up 100 per cent; stamp duty on cheques has gone up 33.3 per cent; payroll tax has gone up 1 1 per cent; State shipping freight rates have gone up 60 per cent. 
This is from the year 1974-75 right up to the present. Of course, Western Australia offers a real 'State of Excitement' for those people who can afford to pay more for their food because at the moment we are at the top of the food price inflation table for capital cities with an increase of 13.6 per cent in food costs last year whilst the national average for the six State capitals was 9.7 per cent. In actual fact, quoting from the  West Australian  of Wednesday, 22 February, these are the figures which apply: Brisbane, 7.3 per cent; Hobart, 1 1 per cent; Adelaide, 11.2 per cent; Sydney, 8.9 per cent; and Canberra, 8.3 per cent. As I said, in Perth the increase was 1 3.6 per cent. 
Perhaps we could assess the situation quite succinctly by saying that Western Australia could be a 'State of Excitement' indeed for those who did not need or did not want to live in a State Housing Commission home, did not cook or bathe, own a car, have a garden, travel by public transport, write cheques, be hospitalised, work or eat. Western Australia promises plenty of excitment for people who are unfortunate enough to need workers compensation because now some private insurance companies are illegally stopping workers compensation payments. Those people who are fortunate enough to receive compensation have to wait many months and sometimes even years to have their claims settled. But under section 12 (b) (i) of the workers compensation legislation an employer has to serve a medical certificate on a worker 21 days before payments are altered or stopped. This just is not happening in our 'State of Excitement'. Because the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, will not agree to the Labor Party- the Opposition Party- amendment to the workers compensation legislation to allow an extra panel to handle the backlog of claims, we find people waiting up to years before their cases are heard. 
I want to tell the Senate about what I believe to be a fairly typical case. On 27 October 1975, a trained nurse slipped on some sputum while she was performing her duties and injured her side. As a result of that fall she has developed osteoarthritis in her hip and knees. While she was in hospital she developed an infection which a microbiologist diagnosed as staphylococci. As a result of that infection, which now at least appears to be recurring, she breaks out in abscesses. To treat the abcesses she receives massives doses of antibiotics which in turn affect the osteoarthritis condition which as a result of the fall has developed in her hips and her knees. We have this marvellous Catch 22 situation. 
Until August 1976, or 10 months after the accident, she was paid workers compensation. Then payments were stopped. She endeavoured to have her case heard by the Workers' Compensation Board. The date for the hearing of her case was set down as June 1978, two years and eight months after the accident and one year and 10 months after payments were stopped. She made representations to a State member of parliament and he was instrumental in having her case brought forward to 8 February 1978. When she appeared at the court at that time she was told that two doctors who were to give evidence were unavailable that day and that her case would now have to be set aside until 6 December, a further 10 months' wait. I do not think that this is an isolated case but it is one about which I have received personal representations. The only possible pension payable to her is an invalid pension. But, to receive this, she has to have certification that she is not fit for work. The doctor says that she is fit for light work. I should dearly love someone to tell me what light work a nurse can do because nursing is one of the many heavy working professions which women undertake. So, without a certificate stating that she cannot work, she cannot get a pension. Because the State Government will not commission another panel to hear the backlog of compensation cases, she has to wait until December to have her case heard. I imagine she finds that a State of Excitement'! 
The Western Australian vehicle number plates are becoming a source of humour to our interstate visitors as well as our residents. Two letters, a copy of which I have taken from the Western Australian newspapers, give an indication of how people feel about what is not happening over ther. An even better letter appeared in the weekend  Australian  last Saturday but unfortunately I could not locate it in time. The following letter is from a gentleman, one presumes, named F. Pollaers of Lalor Park, New South Wales. 
-Is it? He probably has better road directions over there. He stated in his letter: 
I am a visitor to this State. When I first saw your new car number plates with the inscription ' WA-State of Excitement' the thought occurred to me that perhaps the Department of Main Roads and local councils could look into the matter of road signs- or rather the lack of them- before Western Australia became known as the State of No Directions. 
In answer to  Mr Pollaers, Mr G.  Maxwell of South Perth wrote: 
Pollaers of New South Wales . . . appears to have unwittingly missed the point. 
The excitement captioned on our WA number plates surely refers to the transcendent pleasure of being transported in the sheer delight of driving around our roads in the excited hope of spotting that most rare and soughtafter of all sights- a direction sign. 
After all, when one knows where one is or where one is going, there is hardly any excitement at all, is there? 
Obviously the real state of excitement must lie in that ecstatic experience of not knowing where one is going so long as one knows, eventually, where one has been. But this can also be achieved quite easily and with hardly less excitement by the simple expedient of driving around in reverse without the need for any direction signs at all. 
There is also the excitement in Western Australia involved in the subversive element of our Statethose people who do not uphold the sacred materialistic ethic. Our Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, has branded as subversives all those people suspected of questioning the predominant lifestyle or, worse still, pursuing an alternative lifestyle. He made that statement with particular reference to a recent Down-to-Earth Festival conducted quite successfully there. 
The proposed naval base at Cockburn Sound also promises a deal of excitement- as a potential target So, perhaps it is no wonder that  Mr Mensaros,  the Minister for Mines and Minister for Fuel and Energy, has been unable to resist the temptation and the opportunity to share the wonderful assets of our State with overseas businessmen. He has been generous enough to offer no objection to fully foreign-owned undertakings and he stated so in his recent overseas trip when he was trying to flog off what was left of Western Australia. I am reminded of a slogan I saw when I was in Queensland at an unfortunate happening there quite recently. It was a sign that advised people to 'See Queensland quickly before Joh sells it'. The situation is just a little different in Western Australia. 
I am quoting from an actual car sticker,  Mr President.  I am not being disrespectful. There is a saying in Western Australia that if the Government owns an industry which makes a profit we should sell it and if a privately-owned business makes a loss the Government should buy it. There are a number of prime examples, including the exercise at Wundowie, which could be quoted in that context. If  Mr Mensaros  is successful in allowing fully foreign-owned companies to operate, and one presumes that if they are fully foreign-owned they are also fully foreign-controlled, it could jeopardise thousands of jobs in my State as well as raising doubts about the credibility of  Sir Charles  Court's pre-election promise of majority Australian ownership. This frenzied state of excitement to which I have referred has even infiltrated the Press in Western Australia. It does not really take much effort to infiltrate the Press in Western Australia. It is already the most conservative Press in Australia and I think it is going for the world record. 
We probably have to thank the Press for a great deal there,  Senator. The  Daily News  on 21 February attributed a comment to  Dr Spock  who, for the benefit of people who are not aware, is an eminent child psychologist. He is quoted as having said: Frankly my first book was the sexiest'. It is probably inevitable that in this state of excitement sexist material suddenly becomes sexiest. I want to quote one further comment that  Dr Spock  made because although he was talking about the scene in the United States the same applies in Australia. He said: 
Governments are largely to blame for what ails the young. They have cut back on child care. They see everything in terms of politics. The real needs of people, their health and welfare are ignored. We have seen massive cutbacks in programs here and we can now no longer afford or offer hope to the young, the old or anybody who comes in between. 
The need for excitement in Western Australia has superseded all other human needs, especially the need for personal integrity through employment, which is becoming more and more a privilege and no longer a right. Unemployment figures in Western Australia have reached an unacceptable level as they have in most other States and, as my colleague  Senator Colston  reminded the Senate earlier, we have the highest unemployment since the Great Depression.  Mr Hayden  pointed out in the House of Representatives last week that the total number of unemployed is likely to be much higher than the official Commonwealth Employment Service figures because of the number of people who do not register as being unemployed. This is reflected in the number of people who are described by the Bureau of Statistics as voluntarily inactive or keeping house. As a result of difficulties in finding work many females, particularly juniors, are failing to register for employment and are being maintained by their parents. 
Unemployment in rural areas presents different problems- more specific problemsbecause of the limitations involved in getting to the nearest Commonwealth Employment Service office every two weeks. The ratio of females to males in country towns in Western Australia has increased dramatically over the last few years. In Kalgoorlie there has been a 100 per cent increase in female unemployment compared with male unemployment over the last five years. In 1972 the ratio was one female to 6.94 males unemployed. In other words, for every female unemployed there were 6.94 males unemployed. In December 1977 there was one unemployed female for every 3.4 males out of a job. The figures for Bunbury showed a similar marked increase. In December 1972 the ratio was one female to 1.75 males out of work whereas in December 1977 it was one female to every 1.25 males out of work. In Merredin in the same period the ratio increased from one female to 1.91 males in 1972 to one female to 1.3 males in 1977. 
It would appear that  Senator Guilfoyle  is unaware of the inherent problems of young females in non-metropolitan areas because on a  Four Corners  program on 25 February she said that 'if youth were motivated they would actively seek employment in areas where there is work. ' That might be all very well for males, although I would not let my 15-year-old son leave home, but I have to ask: Does  Senator Guilfoyle  advocate that girls as young as 15 years should be expected, and that their parents should be prepared to allow them, to leave home and find work in another town or city many miles away? I can tell the Senate of a family in Kalgoorlie which would rather suffer hardship than allow their daughter, who is 17 years of age, to go to a town 50 miles away where work is available. As a result she is not eligible for the unemployment benefit because she will not go to where work is available and her parents have to finance her staying at home. 
What is the position of a man who lives with a teenage family in a rural area? Should he have to face the situation of moving his home, going away from friends and his place of employment so that his children may- I stress the word may'- have the opportunity of getting work in a larger town or city? They may get employment; he may not. Of course, if he leaves his job voluntarily he is not eligible for the unemployment benefit until a longer period has elapsed. So we are committing people to stay in jobs that they hate or to remain unemployed. Not so many years ago it used to be an indictment of a person to be sacked. Under this Government's policy that is preferable because at least that person would qualify for the unemployment benefit earlier. If a person leaves his job of his own accord the Government considers that he does not want to work and withholds payment of the unemployment benefit. There is in sight no relief from the unemployment crisis as the ratio of unemployed to unfilled vacancies increases all the time. In Western Australia, that State of excitement, the ratio of unemployed to unfilled vacancies was one to 4.34 and in December 1977 it was one to 18.9. 
Breaking that down into the sexes, the ratio of females unemployed to positions unfilled has increased 5.78 times whilst the equivalent increase in the ratio for males has increased only 3.87 times. The ratio of men unemployed to positions vacant in December 1972 was one to 4.95 whilst in December 1977 it was one to 19.19. The ratio of females unemployed to positions vacant in December 1972 was one to 3.19 and in December 1977 for every female unemployed there were 18.44 positions unfilled. In other words, the ratio was one to 18.44. Even those figures do not reflect the real statistics because the unfilled positions refer to full time, part time, permanent, temporary and seasonal positions whilst the unemployment figure refers only to those people registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service as seeking full time work, that is, of 35 hours a week or more. If the unfilled positions comprised only full time positions the ratio would be even higher, especially for females. In May 1976 women constitute 32.9 per cent of the work force working part time compared with males constituting 4.5 per cent of the work force working part time. If honourable senators want to check those figures, I refer them to the Australian Bureau of Statistics publication The Labour Force of May 1976'. Comparing the female unemployment rates for Western Australia with rates in other States over a fiveyear period, we can see just how badly women have fared in Western Australia, the State of excitement.  Mr President,  at this time perhaps it would be appropriate for me to seek leave to have a small table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="076232197802283_61_2.jpg"></graphic>

(refer Monthly Review) 
I thank the Senate. The table shows the percentage of female unemployed of the total unemployed over the period 1972 to 1977 and the percentage increase and decrease over the same five-year period. Let us compare Western Australia with the other States. In 1972 in Western Australia 25.17 per cent of females were unemployed. In 1977 the figure was 33.71 per cent, an increase of 29.96 per cent. In New South Wales in 1 972 the figure was 33.3 per cent and in 1977 it was 32.75 per cent, a decrease of 1.65 per cent. In Victoria 1972 saw 33.67 per cent of females unemployed and in 1977, 36.67 per cent, an increase of 8.9 per cent.  In Queensland in 1972 the figure was 28.93 per cent and in 1977, 29.12 per cent, an increase of 0.65 per cent. In South Australia, including the Northern Territory, the figure in 1972 was 33.05 per cent as against 33.12 per cent in 1977, a plus of 0.21 per cent. In Tasmania the rate was 40.75 per cent in 1972 compared with 34.5 per cent in 1 977, a decrease of 15.33 per cent. 
The Australian Labor Party, whether in or out of government, traditionally emerges as the scapegoat for unemployment. Figures show that two Labor States, Tasmania and New South Wales, have actually experienced a decrease in the percentage of unemployed women and the third Labor State, South Australia, has the lowest percentage increase. Recently in Western Australia a scheme was commenced under the auspices of the State Government. Some rather exorbitant claims are being made by West Australian Government Ministers, including the Premier, who, according to a report dated 23 February this year, said that the Western Australian Government had created new jobs at the rate of 1250 a month over the past 12 months. He said that this was the biggest job-making program in any State. He gave the job figures in a statement which he said showed that the Government's performance had matched its election promises. He said that the coalition parties had made a total of 506 promises in their separate policies. Of these 83 per cent had been implemented, nearly 10 per cent had been initiated and 7 per cent remained to be tackled. The job-creating rate was in response to the Government 's promise of an extra 100,000 jobs by 1 984. 
We have to look at how these jobs are being created. The query is raised in my mind- I hope it is raised in the minds of other honourable senators and will occasion some questioning of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)-  whether they are being created under the Commonwealth Youth Employment Subsidy Scheme, in which case to be eligible a person must have been unemployed for four months. Is the State Government claiming that it is totally responsible for every person who obtains employment under this scheme? These are very serious and very real questions. I do not think that anyone in the Government has looked at the tremendous social repercussions of unemployment. They are enormous. They have detrimental effects on individuals. They are responsible in part at least for increases in crime rates, suicide rates and mental illnesses. The list is endless. 
I want to tell the Senate about a man. Unfortunately I could not find the report that I read, but it concerns a migrant resident of Western Australia who lost his job. He is not so young. I think he is in either his late thirties or early forties. Because of the publicity about people accepting unemployment benefits being dole bludgers, when he lost his job and when his savings had reached a formidable low he attempted to commit suicide by setting fire to his flat. When he appeared in court, the only reason he gave was that he did not want to be known as a dole bludger. More recently Bernard Ceriani an 18-year-old, was charged with stealing $500 from a postman. Perhaps the state of excitement that occasioned him to attack a postman could have resulted from his being unemployed, having no unemployment benefit and having no money to buy food. 
I believe one thing was evident from the  Four Corners  program that was broadcast in Western Australia last weekend. I sincerely hope that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is not so far behind that Western Australia is getting programs after the rest of Australia. The program concerned the unemployed, particularly the unemployed youth. It was evident from that program that unemployment has reached a stage where the unemployed need more than just a job. Many of them are in the grips of such deep depression that they are not even looking for a job, and even if they could get one they do not feel capable of handling it anyway. Ann Gorman of the New South Wales Youth Services who appeared on the program attributed the apathy and depression to the fact that the youth are playing no productive part in our society and eventually become unemployable. An 18-year- old who was simply called Julie who was interviewed on the program typified the prevailing apathy. She has not had a job since last April. She has been on unemployment benefit. She has not even been looking for a job. When she was  asked why, she said: 'I can't be bothered any more'. When she was asked how she saw her future, her reply was: 'I don 't '. 
I would hate to think that because of the comments I have made tonight about the State of excitement in which we Western Australians find ourselves I had encouraged honourable senators to pack up and move across the Nullarbor. Perhaps I have a duty and responsibility to dampen their spirits a little. I should tell them that in this State of excitement even the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, has expressed his concern about the housing situation. The  West Australian  of 22 February states: 
WA 's housing industry was urged yesterday to do more to control cost increases, while making sure that the quality of housing did not fall. 
The Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, told a meeting of the Housing Industry Association that costs had spiralled in a frightening way. 
He also said that he was very distressed at the lack of stability in the industry, and described the variation in house building figures for the last seven years as appalling. 
The industry had to gear up to meet the demands of a big increase in WA 's population. 

 Sir Charles predicted a population rise of 2 1 per cent by 1984. 
Three years ago the average price of a home in Western Australia was equal to 118 average weekly pay packets. Last year the cost had risen to 128 average weekly pay packets. Perhaps another deterrent would be that our schools are grossly overcrowded. We also have 500 or 600 school teachers out of work. Teachers who have come out of teachers training college are unable to be employed. At the same time in many suburban schools- I have no doubt that the situation applies in the rural area as well- we find classrooms with split grades and a teacher trying to educate anything up to 38 or 40 children. I believe that if the Federal Government had implemented the recommendations of the Schools Commission the situation would not have arisen. If the Government had not cut funds so drastically more school rooms would be available- rooms which would cater for remedial teaching, specialised teaching, guidance and counselling. 
Debate interrupted. 
Before the adjournment of the Senate last night I was giving my views on some of the joys of living in Western Australia- 'the State of Excitement'. With the added advantage of this being a broadcast day for the Senate but being limited by time I shall quickly recap some of the points that I raised. I mentioned, for instance, that the State Government could no longer lay claim to Western Australia being called 'The Wildflower State' and subsequently force people to have their new car registration plates labelled Western Australia- The State of Excitement'. From an article in last weekend's  Weekend Australian  it would appear that some people are resorting to the use of masking tape and tin snips to make sure that they do not live in 'Western Australia- The State of Excitement'. 
I said also that the State Government had to accept some responsibility and that it had permitted the indiscriminate use of land by private developers. I spoke about the disadvantages which people in Western Australia felt with the severe water restrictions which have applied since October because of the lack of foresight by the Western Australian Government to cater adequately for the needs of a growing metropolis. I spoke at some length about the dramatic increases in the cost of essential services, especially those applying for the period between 1974-75 and now. I said that motor vehicle licence fees have gone up by 1 14.5 per cent and drivers licence fees have gone up by 132.4 per cent. I suggested that Western Australia was indeed a State of excitement for people who did not need or want to live in a State Housing Commission home, did not cook, bathe, have a garden, own a car, travel by public transport, write cheques, be hospitalised, work or eat. There have been dramatic increases in all these areas. 
I instanced the situation which applies in Western Australia in relation to workers compensation cases. I told the Senate of the case of one of my constituents who is now condemned to wait until next December to have her case heard by the Workers Compensation Appeals Board even though her accident happened in October 1975. 1 then went on to speak about the activities of the State Minister for Mines and the Minister for Fuel and Energy,  Mr Mensaros,  on a recent overseas visit when he was endeavouring to sell-off the rest of Western Australia and I want to expand that theme for a few minutes and quote from a newspaper article written about that famous trip. In the  West Australian  of 8 February 1978, under the heading 'Mensaros woos foreign firms ', the article reads: 
Western Australia believed firmly in free trade and would be quite happy to see entirely foreign-owned firms established in the State to help develop the massive off-shore gas fields of the North- West Shelf, the Development Minister,  Mr Mensaros,  said in Brussels yesterday. 'We believe in free trade internationally. The rules are those of the market place, ' he said. 
Asked what minimum Australian shareholding would be required in any joint venture, he said: 'We don't make any rules to compel people '. 
If someone wants to establish in Western Australia and has 1 00 per cent equity and doesn't 't want to join anyone else, we are quite happy.' 
In practice the Federal Government's minimum Australian shareholding rule varied between SO per cent and almost zero, he said. 
The 50 per cent rule still stood, but in practice it had been found that it was not possible for all overseas companies to find Australian partners. 
In an effort to get him out of the mess that he had put his big feet in, the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, added a little bit to the end of the article and said that  Mr Mensaros  was referring to wholly owned overseas companies that wanted to enter into joint ventures with Western Australian companies. Well, that is not what  Mr Mensaros  said. He said: 
If someone wants to establish in Western Australia and has 100 per cent equity and doesn't want to join anyone else we are quite happy'. 
It is obvious in 'The State of Excitement' in Western Australia that the Minister for Industrial Development does not know the guidelines that have been established in either the State scene or in the Federal scene. 
I would doubt very much that the honourable senator would have the same trouble down in Tasmania. The Labor Government down there is not trying to sell your State. I thought the Tasmanians were trying to attach it to the rest of Australia. In view of the statement by  Mr Mensaros.  I think it is about time that the Federal Government, in the interests of Australia, reiterated its policy on foreign ownership and particularly on foreign control. 
In my previous speech I was outlining for the benefit of honourable senators the slogan which I had seen on a motor vehicle in Queensland when I was up there a short time ago. The  President,  who was in the chair at the time, took exception to the fact that I had referred to the Premier of Queensland as 'Joh' and asked me to refer to him in the correct way. So that there can be no confusion and in an endeavour to establish that I was not being disrespectful, I have obtained a copy of the sticker to which I referred and which I would like to table. Honourable senators can see what it says. After the word See' there is a map of Queensland with the face of the sun and then the words 'first before Joh sells it'. In other words, see Queensland before Joh sells it. That is the slogan to which I referred. I was not being disrespectful to the Premier of Queensland. 
Whilst I am on the subject of Queensland, and interrupting my 'State of Excitement', because obviously there are some people in that State who also have this feeling about living under the Premier of Queensland, I want to refer to a letter from the Premier of Queensland to the Prime Minister. The letter relates to a grant for the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Community Health Service. I am sure that honourable senators will agree that in this letter the Premier condemns the grant by the Commonwealth Government and actually suggests that it should be withdrawn. The date of the letter is 2 1 December 1977 and it is from the Premiers Department, Brisbane. It reads: 
My dear Prime Minister, 
I understand that a Grant has been made by the Minister for Social Security to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Community Health Service (Brisbane) Ltd, which is a wholly Commonwealth funded body. The Grant is made to assist this organisation to provide an emergency care and family support service for Aboriginal children in the Brisbane metropolitan area. 
I am informed that a total of $24,650 will be made available to this Service during the current financial year and that a further sum of up to $37,260 to meet recurrent expenditure is guaranteed for the following financial year. 
In the first instance, I am concerned that the statutory responsibility of the Director, Department of Children 's Services is being ignored as a result of substantial funding to a voluntary agency proposing to work in the field of child welfare, and, secondly, that consultation at an appropriate level concerning the proposed funding had not taken place. It is clear to me that appropriate State authorities should have been consulted about this matter prior to confirmation of the Grant. 
In addition to the foregoing, I am perturbed that the action taken to provide these funds will serve to identify and discriminate against the Aboriginal community, a purpose that does not accord with the policy of my Government. 
The Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders Community Health Service pursues a radical, racist and militant philosophy. For your information, a recent street demonstration outside the headquarters of the Service involved wholly Aboriginal people who were expressing their dissatisfaction with the appointment of a  Mr D.  B. Walker to a senior administrative position within the Service. Walker is a known criminal and, within the recent past, was convicted of an assault upon the  Deputy  Regional Director of your Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Brisbane. At least one other senior official has a criminal record. 
In view of the foregoing, you will appreciate my doubts as to the ability and fitness of this Service to administer public funds. Under these circumstances, I must suggest that you consider the withdrawal of the Grant until the actual need has been assessed. In the event of a need being demonstrated, the use of the Grant through appropriate and competent State channels could then be discussed. 
Your advice in due course would be appreciated. 
I understood- and I think I am right in saying this-that it is evident that there is a need for this type of service for Aboriginal communities right throughout Australia. For the Premier of Queensland to suggest that a Commonwealth grant should be withdrawn is criminal. It is no less criminal than his action in 1976 in refusing to accept a grant from the Department of Health to fund two women's refuges, one of them in Brisbane and one in Townsville. 
Returning to the speech that I was making last night and getting back to my 'State of Excitement', because we in Western Australia find ourselves a little parochial, I cited some figures on unemployment in Western Australia, particularly the unemployment of women. I expressed my concern that the rural areas are the hardest hit but in some cases it is necessary for men, with families grown up and in need of employment, to determine whether it is of more benefit to them to leave their homes, their friends, and their work in the hope that their children may get employment in a larger town or in the city. I said in my speech- and I will repeat it again now- that the children may get employment but they may not get employment and the possibility of one parent or both parents getting employment is much less than it is for the children. With the permission of the Senate I incorporated in  Hansard  a table which I hope honourable senators have read. I hope they have been able to assess the statement I made in respect of two of the three Labor-controlled States, that there has been a dramatic decrease in unemployment as it relates to women and that in the third State there was the minimum possible increase. 
I just quickly want to raise a subject relating to unemployment, which also came up in Question Time this morning, when a member of this chamber asked  Senator Guilfoyle  about the Social Security Appeals Tribunals. I think it is evident from the review by the Brotherhood of St Laurence organisation that the majority of people in Australia are unaware that they can appeal if their social security benefits are stopped. I would say that there has not been one constituent who has come into my office as a result of their unemployment benefit being stopped who knew that there was an avenue of appeal. I think the review by the Brotherhood of St Laurence showed that something like 28 per cent of the people interviewed in the survey knew of the existence of the Appeals Tribunals. 
It did not say that that 28 per cent had had occasion to use the Appeals Tribunals; but at least they knew of its existence. Seventy-two per cent of them did not even know that. If the Government decided that they were no longer entitled to receive unemployment benefit- for unknown reasons at times the Government does determine that some people are not qualified to receive unemployment benefit- they would accept the Government's decision. They did not even know that there were the Appeals Tribunals to which they could turn. 
One has to ask: Is there in actual fact a conspiracy of secrecy? Is it possible that perhaps there is an agreement, albeit an unwritten one, that field officers and other people working in the Department of Social Security are not to make it known to beneficiaries that they have an avenue of appeal? If that assumption is correct, the members of Parliament on both sides of this chamber have a responsibility to ensure that the people who receive unemployment benefit or a social security benefit of any kind are aware that if their payments are stopped for any reason they can go before the Appeals Tribunals. 
The point that disturbs me most about unemployment is that the unemployed people are already disadvantaged and we are placing them in a more precarious position of disadvantage by not publicising what services are available to them. We have heard that field officers of the Department of Social Security are now wholly engaged in tracking down unemployed people; that in actual fact field officers are spending  6V2  or  7Vi  hours a day- whatever hours they workgoing to the places where people who have claimed unemployment benefit reside. I understand that if these people are not found at home after visits on three occasions their benefit can be stopped. It does not require too much imagination to believe that in actual fact those people might be out of their own volition looking for work. 
Are we to presume from the fact that field officers are being employed to go to the places of residence of unemployed people that the Government thinks that they should be prepared to stay at home because they are unemployed? Are we to hear the same lot of codswallop as we heard three or four years ago about unemployed people actually having the temerity to go to the beach? Is it being suggested that they should be quite happy to sit within their four walls, become depressed, become suicide risks or worse, increase the crime rate and the drug-taking rate or just sit and become a vegetable because they can have their unemployment benefit stopped if a field officer calls on them three times and they are not at home? If that is so, it is a disgraceful situation. I condemn it, as I condemn this Government's whole policy on unemployment. 
I hope that last night I did not persuade too many honourable senators to cross the Nullabor and take up residence in Western Australia, but I knew that honourable senators were so concerned about the 'State of Excitement' in which we were living. At the conclusion of my remarks last night I was discussing the situation which exists in Western Australian schools. I said that I abhorred the fact that in some classrooms there were as many as 38 children and further, to confuse both students and teachers, that some of those classrooms contained split grades. I condemned the Commonwealth Government for not implementing the recommendations of the Schools Commission. I condemned the Government then and I condemn it now for not providing adequate facilities for people to learn. We hear it said many times that many people who apply for jobs are under-educated. The Commonwealth Government has to accept responsibility for bringing these people up to a recognisable standard of education. At the same time, I condemn a government which does not provide employment for the people it trains. At least 500 teachers in Western Australia who graduated from a teacher training college last year are unable to find employment. 
I realise that my time is running short but I cannot let this opportunity go by without making reference to a man who has been condemned because of his principles. He has suffered degradation. He has been demoted and suffered the resultant consequences of less pay. He now finds himself in the situation of having had to break up his home because of that demotion. I have heard him referred to as a crackpot. I believe that  Mr Bill  Toomer, a quarantine inspector employed in Western Australia for many years, will probably be recognised in history as a man with some foresight, but at the moment he is being recognised by his government administrators as a troublemaker. 

 Mr Toomer 's original sin was that, as a public servant, he said in public that our quarantine regulations were sub-standard; that we did not have adequate protection from exotic diseases; that we did not have protection from such diseases as foot-and-mouth disease and bluetongue; that he condemned the fact that he was unable to take unto himself authority to destroy vessels which had landed illegally on the west coast of Western Australia and which he considered could have contained some vermin which we did not need, which could have affected our natural flora and fauna, and which he wanted to prevent.  Mr Toomer  has now been transferred to the Tullamarine Airport as a quarantine officer. One can only presume that at some stage those of us who travel through Melbourne fairly frequently might even meet him at the funny little bin there where one is asked whether one is carrying any fruit or plants. Perhaps one of these days I shall take along an apple for him because I get very upset about people having to stand there and ask whether we are carrying any fruit. 
I do not believe that the Government will uphold the promises made in this place last week by the Governor-General, any more than I believe that the Government upheld the promises it made prior to the last general election or the previous general election in 1975. We on the Opposition benches will be diligent. When this Government falls down on the promises it has made, and fall down it will, we will bring it to the attention of the people. I do not believe that this Government will look after the interests of the Australian people. That is my prime concern. We in this chamber represent all of those people all of the time. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Because Australia has the unenviable record of the highest incidence of skin cancer in the world, will the Minister advise what action has been taken to reduce or remove the  21Vi  per cent sales tax on sun screen lotions? I am particularly concerned that products which contain para-amonibenzoic acid, which it has been proved effectively screens the sun's rays and therefore prevents skin cancers, are subjected to the same tax as are all sun tanning lotions which do not have any preventive ingredients. Has the Minister made representations to the Treasurer to have the sales tax substantially reduced or even removed? If not, will the Minister make such representations so that people whose skin is susceptible can afford to take preventive action against skin cancer? 
If a person is arrested and remanded in custody and for some reason the AttorneyGeneral is unable to give his consent in writing, what would be a reasonable time before that person could be discharged? What would the AttorneyGeneral determine as a reasonable time.? 

 - Mr Chairman, I am concerned with the placing of the three sub-clauses in clause 10. Sub-clause ( 1 ) refers to: 
. the commitment of a person for trial on indictment for an offence against this Act shall not be instituted except with the consent in writing of the Attorney-General. 
Sub-clause (2) (c) states:  a person so charged may be remanded in custody or on bail, but no further step in proceedings referred to in sub-section (3) shall be taken in relation to the offence until such a consent has been given. 
Sub-clause (3) states: 
Nothing in sub-section (2) prevents the discharge of the accused if proceedings are not continued within a reasonable time. 
Sub-clause (3) may be a fairly standard one, but I am curious as to what is a ' reasonable time ' and if in fact the 'no further step in proceedings referred to in sub-section (3)'- that is, that subsection (2) can prevent the discharge of the accused if proceedings are not continued within a reasonable time- follows on. Perhaps the Minister might be good enough to clarify the question of whether, if sub-section (3) does not come into operation until after sub-section (2), a person could be remanded in custody at the pleasure of the Attorney-General. 
My question to the Minister for Administrative Services refers to an answer that last week was given to  Senator Martin  relating to Commonwealth drivers' uniforms. Is it a fact that short-sleeved shirts are in store at Karrakatta but are not being issued because the crest has been embroidered onto the shirt pocket? I understand that the drivers are concerned about ready identification while they are travelling to and from their place of work. Is it true that the shirts are now to be returned to the eastern States to have the crests removed and that the old practice of attaching the crest by way of a badge will be continued? Is it not possible to have this operation carried out in Perth so as to expedite the issue of the shirts while the hot weather in Western Australia still continues? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. How long is it since the consultative committees on child care have met? When will the Minister announce the new consultative arrangements? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
Has the research group, referred to in the  Age  of 6 February 1978, which is examining welfare programs such as Medibank, made recommendations on Medibank or on any other welfare matter. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I draw his attention to Article 12 of the recent Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting, which relates to disarmament. Is the Government yet in a position to announce the composition of the Australian delegation to the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on Disarmament which will be held in May and June this year? Will the Government give consideration to Opposition senators and members, and even concerned members of the Government, participating in the Australian delegation to the Special Session on Disarmament? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I draw his attention to a question I asked him on 1 1 April. I do not expect his recall to be so great that he will immediately call it to mind, so I will repeat it. I asked: 
Is the Government yet in a position to announce the composition of the Australian delegation to the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on Disarmament which will be held in May and June this year? Will the Government give consideration to Opposition senators and members, and even concerned members of the Government, participating in the Australian delegation to the Special Session on Disarmament? 
I ask the question a second time because there are now only 19 days to the beginning of that very important Special Session. At the time of my asking the question I felt there would have been an opportunity for members of Parliament to meet with the delegation and to know what opinions would be expressed by the Australian Government at that meeting. We are still in the dark and I believe the matter is important enough for the Minister to obtain a reply for me today. 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, relates to regulation 162 of the Family Law Act 1975 which makes it necessary for members of Parliament, as it does for members of the public, to obtain leave of a judge or magistrate or the Registrar of the Family Court before transcripts of evidence and information that may be helpful to them in determining an inquiry made on behalf of a constituent can be obtained. I wonder whether the Attorney-General is aware of how extremely difficult this restriction makes it for members of Parliament to act in true conscience on behalf of those constituents? Would he give some consideration to an alteration of the regulation which would at least enable members of Parliament to be fully aware of the true situation? Perhaps the concessions could be on a similar basis to the concessions that are available already through other courts, both State and federal. 
My position on the mining of uranium has been made quite clear many times both here in this chamber and in the community. I fully support the amendment to the motion for the second reading moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  earlier this evening. It states: 
Leave out all words after 'That', add, 'the Bills be deferred and not proceeded with until after full and proper consultation with the States'. 
I will not refer to the States at this time. I shall refer to the rnining of uranium. I am opposed to the mining, exporting and the transporting of uranium and I shall continue to oppose that until such time as adequate safeguards- adequate to my mind- are found to protect the people who work in the mines, who process the rock or the soil and who transport the product. 
The Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill does nothing to protect or safeguard human health or safety or to protect the environment. The two Bills now being debated cognately are the Atomic Energy Amendment BUI and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill. I have seen nothing in either of these Bills that has made me change my mind on the issue of uranium. I ask how the miners' health will be protected if they are exposed daily to radiation and to its harmful effects which may not be fully realised for many years. I do not want to put up people as guinea pigs. But I believe the Government is in fact saying: 'We are giving you, the people of Australia, in times of massive unemployment, employment opportunities. We will allow people to mine uranium and allow company towns to be set up. We will establish jobs for you. Perhaps after the uranium has run out we will be able to ascertain, at the expense of your health, the risks that are associated with uranium mining'. We in Western Australia have already seen and are indeed still seeing the terrible effects on human health of asbestos mining. We are still getting reports of asbestosis and people are dying of it. I add that in a lot of cases very little and even no compensation is offered. In some cases no responsibility has been accepted by the company involved and no responsibility has been accepted by the Government. Over recent weeks we have seen newspaper reports of families of miners whose only involvement in the mining of asbestos was to accompany the husband or father to the mining towns. These people have been condemned to death. 
A moment ago we heard  Senator Jessop  talk about the lives of people. I am talking about the lives of those people who were involved many years ago in the mining of asbestos and who have now contracted asbestosis and who are dying as a result of the contraction of that disease. I am saying quite clearly that we have seen people who have been condemned to death because of the mining of that product. We do not know whether we are condemning other people to death if we go ahead and mine uranium. Until such time as I am assured that death will not occur in 20 years or 25 years' time, I will continue to oppose the mining of uranium. 
In Western Australia we have seen situations where attempts have been made to get compensation for people suffering from asbestosis. We have seen people with asbestos fragments in their lungs who have not been able to establish that the period for which they were employed in the mining of asbestos was in fact the period when they contracted the disease. They might have worked in that industry for only a year and that may have been 20 years or 25 years ago. Over recent weeks we have seen the frantic endeavours of the Government of Western Australia to decrease workers compensation payments to those people for whom it will accept responsibility. It wants to reduce compensation from 100 per cent to 80 per cent of the workers' wages. Will we now commit more of the same errors- I put this question to the Governmentbecause of the impatience of some getrich.quickbeforethemarketdriesup merchants? Will we say that it is perfectly legitimate to subject people to health hazards about which we know very little at this time purely and simply to line the pockets of a few companies and to create employment in a situation where we now have high unemployment? Will we hold this out as a little carrot? 
In the case of asbestosis it has been established that it can take 20 to 25 years for the effects of the disease to show up. When this matter reaches the Committee stage- if it gets that far- I will ask what is the length of time that is required to establish nuclear diseases that can be contracted from working in mines, from processing rock and from transporting the material. Neither of these Bills will do anything to provide any form of protection for the health and well being of workers of Australia. My prime concern is the protection of the health and wellbeing of workers of this country. It will do nothing to protect the health and wellbeing of Aborigines any more than it will safeguard their land rights. In the last two days we have seen the frantic scurrying of Ministers and members of this chamber and the other place to Darwin in an endeavour to placate the Legislative Assembly and the Northern Land Council. My information received late this afternoon is that the negotiations have broken down, that the compromise proposals put forward this morning were rejected by the Majority Leader in the Legislative Assembly,  Mr Everingham,  and the Northern Land Council. The deputation from the Government- that is all one could call this group- decided that it would compromise even further. One of the proposals it put forward was that both the Northern Land Council and the Central Land Council should be represented on the Territory Parks and Wildlife Committee. According to my information that proposal was also tossed out. Perhaps that is a matter for another Bill which will be debated later in this chamber. 
I have a statement that I would like to read. It raises some very interesting questions in my mind. Because it is a media release, it must raise some questions in the mind of the media as to the proposals which were put forward and which, according to this, were subsequently agreed to. This media release came from the Minister for Trade and Resources,  Mr Anthony,  in Darwin following talks with the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the Northern Land Council. I must admit that my copy of the media release is a fairly poor one. It is a copy of a copy of a copy of the original, I understand, with which it is not unusual for members of the Opposition to have to content themselves. He said in this media release: 
The discussions were, of course, concerned with very serious matters of principle as well as practice. It reflects great credit on all the parties concerned that a satisfactory arrangement has been arrived at. 

 Senator Kilgariff had proposed certain amendments to the Government - 
I am sorry, I cannot understand the next word, but it goes on to refer to  Senator Kilgariff  's view and also, I understand, the views of the Northern Territory Executive as to how this could best be achieved. The media release continues: 
The amendments originally proposed by  Senator Kilgariff  will stand as to substance in some significant areas and will be modified in some others. 
In some instances assurances as to general consultation and due regard to the role of the Northern Territory Administration have been sufficient to meet the concern of  Senator Kilgariff. 
The  Chairman  of the Northern Land Council has made the point to me that the fact that such weighty issues can be resolved in the course of a day's discussion is a good omen for the essential future co-operation between the Northern Land Council and the Northern Territory Executive. The specific amendments should be able to be introduced into the Senate within the next few sitting days. 
I said earlier that we had seen the scurrying of Ministers and of members of this chamber and the other chamber to the Northern Territory. It would appear from that statement which I have read that the Government has capitulated to the National Country Party. In actual fact  Mr Anthony  has said so in that media release. He has said that they have accepted some of  Senator Kilgariff's  original amendments and have decided to modify some others. Nevertheless, in this instance the Government has capitulated to the wishes of the National Country Party so far as the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly is concerned. But apart from the legal rights to land there is also the unique relationship of the land and of the Aboriginals to their land. Anyone who has had any involvement at all with tribal Aboriginals will agree with me that their whole spiritual being is intimately tied to the land and not just to sacred sites. How does the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill or the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill protect that intimacy? 
When I first came to this chamber in 1974 I was elected as a member of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. The Committee's activities were confined a few months after my appointment to the Committee but very much valuable work had been achieved by the previous members. During the time of my membership and in company with members of the then Opposition, some of whom still sit on benches on the opposite side of this chamber, I visited mining sites all over the country. We visited the coal mines in the Bowen Valley, the copper mines in Mount Isa, the nickel mines in Kambalda and the iron ore mining sites at Dampier. In  amongst  all of those we visited the proposed  Ranger  uranium mining site in the Northern Territory and talked with officials of the company. 
I was one member of that Committee who came away most disturbed at what I had been told and what I had seen at Ranger. I was disturbed, for instance, that mining leases extended to within a few feet of Aboriginal sites, some of them sacred and some of them simply sites. I was disturbed that a 'company town situation' could not guarantee that those sites would not be desecrated. I refer in passing to the 'company town situation' because that is what will apply when the uranium mining gets under way. Any people in the Australian community who have worked in a company town will know exactly what I mean by that phrase. For those people who have not worked in a 'company town situation', it is a township built by a company and run by that company. The company can even determine, as happens in some company towns in Western Australia, whether the members of a person's immediate family can visit that person and, if they do visit, how long they will stay and at exactly what point of time they will leave. It is a situation where the company is totally responsible for everything that takes place in the town. The company runs the local store, employs the doctors and the dentists- if indeed they do employ doctors and dentists. It is a situation where the company maintains the homes, if it provides housing- otherwise it might put people up in a caravan park for some time. The company even determines what trees one will plant or even whether any will be planted. It employs the teachers for the schools which it builds. If a teacher does not agree with company policy it is quite possible and highly probable that the teacher will not remain at the company school. It certainly is not the type of lifestyle which the majority of Australians would enjoy, I am sure. 
I was concerned that it could be that very company town situation' which would be responsible for the encroachment onto sacred and other Aboriginal sites. I make the difference between sacred sites and Aboriginal sites because to an Aboriginal a site does not have to be sacred. I came away from those meetings disturbed at the methods which were going to be employed by the company to dispose of the water that was going to be used to wash the uranium during the mining process. That was in 1974. In 1978 I have not heard anything, nor have I read anything, which has done anything to allay my doubts or concern. 
If honourable senators on the Government benches want to know what the company's proposals were for the disposal of that wash water waste in 1974, let me tell them about the great pride which an official of the company took in explaining to me that at the end of the mining operation they would have quite a large hole. That was how he described it. He said that they would put a three metre concrete base on this hole; onto that base they would empty the wash water waste; then they would put a three metre concrete topping on that. This, they thought, was a little unfortunate because it would still leave quite a hole. But they were quite happy to provide the money to build an artificial lake and thereby create a tourist resort for the near future. As I said, I came away from those meetings very concerned. I am still very concerned. We do not have adequate safeguards and these Bills will not provide those safeguards. 
I have said already that these Bills will not even protect the environment. How can there be protection of the environment with the mining of uranium? The two are totally incompatible. Once land has been plundered there can be no restoration. There can perhaps be replacement but there cannot be restoration. I take this opportunity,  Mr President,  to draw your attention to Part HI of the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill, which is grandiosely entitled 'Codes of Practice'. 
The Government states that under clause 8(3) a code of practice may do a number of things. The clause does not state that it will do certain things and it certainly does not state that it should do certain things. It says simply that a code of practice may do certain things. Paragraph (a) states that it may:  specify standards to bc observed, practices and procedures to be followed and measures (including measures for or in relation to the restoration of the environment from the effects of nuclear activities) to be taken with respect to nuclear activities; 
I have said already that there is no way in which the land can be restored to its original state. How is it possible to dispose of atmospheric radioactivity? It has been disturbed already. How will it be possible to dispose of it? Earlier this afternoon in the debate  Senator Baume  expressed his concern for the plight of the mining companies. He pointed out that Pancontinental Mining Ltd was wasting thousands of dollars while its equipment lies idle. I must admit that I was quite touched by  Senator Baume  's philanthropic concern and his compassion for the people who have come here uninvited to rape our country of our mineral wealth. What are they giving our country in return? They are saying: 'We will abide by certain standards but make sure that those standards are very loose'. I have instanced already that there is no provision in either of these Bills for the protection of human beings. I believe that human considerations should take precedence over profit. Obviously, there are honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber who see profits as their prime concern. 
Opposition members have been accused many times in the course of this debate, both in this chamber and in the other place, of being prophets of doom. I put it to you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that it is the Government supporters who are concerned about 'profits' of doom. They are intent on lining the pockets of the few at the expense of the many.  Senator Collard,  in his contribution to this debate earlier this evening, used the same phrase which has been used many times by his Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Perhaps we should therefore accuse him of plagiarism. I am sure that  Mr Fraser  feels that it was an original phrase. Let me assure him that it was not. It is not enough for the Prime Minister or for members of his Party to say that Opposition members are the prophets of doom. It is the mining of uranium and the advent of nuclear power that forecasts doom not only for Australia but on a world-wide basis. Once the uranium leaves this country, we have no say in how it will be used. We rely very heavily on a flimsy piece of paper called the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty. It is only a piece of paper. I do not believe that we can ignore the inherent factor of the proliferation of nuclear weapons of war by the mining of uranium. I believe that we have a responsibility to people not only in Australia but also throughout the world. 
There are people in other countries who do not want us to mine our uranium. Last year we saw thousands of Japanese people concerning themselves with this issue when Australia was shipping yellowcake to Japan. The Japanese demonstrated their concern in their thousands. We have seen the same activity taking place in the United Kingdom - 
-And in the United States of America, as my colleague  Senator Gietzelt  from New South Wales reminds me. 
This has occurred in a number of countries throughout the world. Some countries are concerned that Australia even now is well into the United Nations declared decade of disarmament. They see the mining of uranium as the continuation, the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Honourable senators will recall that I had to jog the memory of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  last Friday to obtain an answer to a question which I asked in the Senate about the delegation to the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on Disarmament. It is now about 12 days before the Special Session on Disarmament is to take place and we still do not know who will be in the Australian delegation. We know, however, that the Australian Government has been part and parcel of certain proposals that have been laid down at the United Nations for the Special Session. But, of course, we did not obtain that information from the Government. The three documents that I have were given by the British Foreign Office to the representatives of the people who are concerned about disarmament in the United Kingdom. The documents were brought to Australia. But they were put down in the United Nations in September and November of last year and in February of this year. They are guidelines for disarmament. How can we be talking about guidelines for disarmament at the same time as we are talking about the mining of uranium? We have heard so often before the expression: 'You speak with a forked tongue'. I make no bones about my stand on the mining of uranium. I do not speak with a forked tongue. But I accuse the Government of speaking with a forked tongue. I accuse the Government of participating in the United Nations Special Session on Disarmament at the same time as it is considering providing the world with the wherewithal to create nuclear weapons. 
I ask honourable senators to imagine the position if nuclear weapons got into the hands of  President  Marcos in the Philippines or Idi Amin. What control do we have over that? The world is already aware of a shipment of uranium which went missing. Where is it now? No one knows. It may have finished up in Israel. On the other hand, it may have finished up in Saudi Arabia or in Rhodesia. We really do not know. I am saying here and now, as I have said many times previously, that if we mine uranium we must be prepared for the accusations that can be made about us throughout the world that we have been responsible for the proliferation of nuclear weapons. 

 Senator Jessop made a brilliant suggestion earlier in the debate. He said that we must protect the Third World countries and assist in their development. He said that we must mine our uranium and we must give it to countries to enable them to develop their nuclear power stations. I presume this is what he intended we should be doing. But the majority of people living in the Third World countries do not even have a power point in their homes. They cannot afford a power point. They cannot afford nuclear energy. All nuclear energy will mean to the Third World developing countries is unemployment because machinery will be brought in to do the very work that the people are doing now. We have listened very closely to the arguments put forward by Government senators. I notice that a couple of them are present in the Senate chamber at the present moment- not very many because they are not concerned with this issue. 
I thank  Senator Wright.  Perhaps he would like to draw attention to the state of the House.  (Quorum formed).  I am most grateful that some Government supporters have even attended the chamber. 
It is the Government's responsibility to maintain the numbers in the chamber. We heard  Senator Jessop  earlier tonight discussing the sealing of waste in glass underneath salt layers in the earth. We have also heard this proposition put forward by the maniacal magnate of Western Australia,  Mr Lang  Hancock, who offered to do this in his very own backyard. Of course  Mr Hancock  still believes that Madame Marie Curie died of old age. He insists that his information comes from the  Encyclopedia Britannica.  Obviously he cannot read either. There are a number of honourable senators who cannot read. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to people who appeal against determinations of the Department of Social Security and, after receiving a positive recommendation from a Social Security Appeals Tribunal, receive a negative one from the Director-General. Does the Minister intend to make it possible for a further appeal to go to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal? If so, when? When will the Minister announce this decision to Parliament so there can be a debate on it? I ask this question in the knowledge that all members and senators deal each week with clients, particularly those on unemployment benefit and those who generally have absolutely no money at all while the appeals are being investigated, and in the knowledge that the Law Council of Australia believes that the worst of three alternative methods of appeal is that which allows for appeal from decisions of the DirectorGeneral to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal after an appeal to a Social Security Appeals Tribunal has been quashed? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, refers to a question I asked on Tuesday regarding appeals to a Social Security Appeals Tribunal against determinations by the Department of Social Security. I remind the Minister that in her reply she stated that while a person was waiting for an appeal to be heard it was possible for that person to re-register for unemployment benefit. I ask the Minister: At what stage could this possibly occur and just how can these benefits be obtained if, in fact, they have already been terminated by the department to which the person will be applying? I also ask: What length of time is still required by the Minster or by her Department to reach a decision in a matter which I raised with her last evening- I do not think there is any necessity for me to repeat the name of the appellant in that case- where a person 's benefit was terminated 3v4 months ago and it has not been possible for that person to obtain any benefit at all in that period? 
I shall be very brief in my contribution on this issue. Once again I must complain that when a statement is made in this House we find that it is being placed on our desks when the Minister is about to introduce it. Consequently we have not had time to read this statement. That is my first point. My concern with air safety is that, according to information with which I was provided only a few weeks ago, if it became necessary to abort take-off from the Perth airport of a 747 which was fully loaded with passengers, fuel and cargo, it would not be possible safely to do so. 
I ask whether in the statement there is any information about whether that is the correct situation. My information is that that is the situation which applies to any 747. A great number of them land at the Perth airport. Is there anything in the statement which indicates whether it is the intention of the Department of Transport to upgrade the safety regulations which apply to that airport until such time as we receive money from the Government either to extend the airport or to transfer it to a more suitable site? Is it intended to take action to prohibit 747s from using the Perth airport until safer conditions apply? 
-When did the Minister for Social Security first realise that the tax to be imposed on a child's income in excess of $312, which was announced in the Budget last week, would affect families other than those whose children's incomes are derived from family trusts, partnerships, et cetera? Why did the Minister wait until after the Budget was announced to express her concern when the obvious place to express it was in the Cabinet room before the Budget was presented? 

 - Mr Deputy President, this is the first opportunity that I have had to participate in a debate since you have been elected to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. I am confident that you will uphold the high standard that has been set in that position over many years, the duties of which were so ably carried out by your immediate predecessor. To those new senators who joined the Senate in July and have made their maiden speeches I offer my congratulations on their contributions. I also look forward to the contributions of those honourable senators who are yet to take that giant step in this place. I must admit that I was heartened when this Bill was introduced. I felt that at least it would bear some similarity to the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill which was introduced by the Labor Government in 1975, and which the then Opposition so vehemently opposed. A reading of the second reading speech of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  could lead one to the belief that perhaps the present Bill is supposed to cover the areas that the then Opposition found acceptable. That is not quite the case. In the second reading speech the Minister said: 
Honourable senators will be aware that there has been a massive expansion in investment in large scale development projects in developing countries during the current decade. Following the rise in international oil prices, developing country oil producers in the Middle East and elsewhere have embarked on huge and continuing development programs. In addition, international financial institutions such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank are providing large funds for development projects in developing countries to improve basic infrastructure, increase food producing capacity and establish new industrial capacity. 
In view of what the Minister said, one would have expected that this Bill would provide for the Corporation to perform a large number of functions. One would have thought perhaps that this Bill was an endeavour on the Government's pan to stimulate private enterprise by engaging in an activity which would make it possible for at least some of the private enterprise in Australia to participate through this Corporation in those large scale development projects, particularly in the developing countries. But I do not believe that this Bill provides much stimulus at all. It is a very confused Bill. I am very confused by it and I am sure that members of my party are very confused by it. I am sure that private enterprise will be most confused by it. I am convinced that members of the Corporation themselves will be confused by the charter that we are giving them. 
Because I have raised the subject of private enterprise I just want to make one thing quite clear. In almost every piece of legislation that is brought forward into this place we see this constant conflict of private and public enterprise. I feel constrained to ask why this should be. Surely one should be complementary to the other and we as a parliament should be proposing that the best should be taken from each to the benefit of all Australia, particularly for those businesses in Australia that look to this Government for guidance. I am not expressing a new attitude. I said exactly the same thing on 23 October 1977 during a debate on the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill. I want to quote briefly part of my speech. I said: 
Australia has been standing on the sidelines of international trade for many years while the rest of the educated world is getting in on the markets that we so desperately need. I do not say 'we' meaning the Government but 'we' meaning the country. There is tremendous potential in Australia for an export market organisation of this nature. 
I went on to talk about some of the evidence that had been put before the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade which was at that time inquiring into the prospects for trade between Indonesia and Australia. Those who have read the evidence will recognise that the points made to the Committee generally are as valid now as they were then. I went on to say: 
We heard evidence before the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade quite recently in our investigations into Indonesia from large and small businesses, from potential and existing businesses, that they saw a need not only to extend the trade commissioner service . . . but also to set up an organisation that was capable and able to advise them when there were tenders being called so that they would be able to submit a contract to an overall body and so be able to tender for part of the contract rather than for the contract in its entirety, because not all companies are able to do that. At the moment they are prohibited from tendering purely and simply because they cannot tender for all of it. " 
I went on to quote from the 1974 annual report of the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association which set out that organisation's attitude towards the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill. The Association stated: 
HEMA applauds the decision by the Government to establish an Overseas Trading Corporation on the understanding that its main thrust will be towards the development of export business with countries having centralised economies and the Middle East Sheikdoms all of which have expressed a clear desire to trade with other countries on a government to government basis. Beyond those countries, the corporation will also seek to develop business in countries where, up to the present, there has been little or no penetration by Australian exporting companies. 
In principle the proposal does not differ widely from similar institutions in other countries, for example the American EXIM Bank and MITI in Japan. 
The Corporation could have special significance for the heavy engineering industry by providing a vehicle for the formation of consortia of engineering companies to enable them to tender, using the corporation as the prime contractor, on a group basis instead of individually as heretofore. By combining the facilities of EFIC, the Export Bank and the Overseas Trading Corporation it should be possible for heavy engineering companies to enter markets which have been neglected in the past because of the lack of such facilities. 
That Bill provided for the establishment of a similar organisation to the one which this Bill proposes but the powers that that legislation gave to the Corporation were broader and the intention was much clearer that it had the power to do certain things. This Bill is not clear. It is not clear to me. The clauses in the Bill appear to be contradictory. There is too much conflict. Let me give  Senator Young  a few examples because I know of his interest in this area. For instance, clause 6 outlines the functions of the Corporation. I do not want to take the time of the Senate by reading all of the clause. However, the clause says that the corporation is to inform, assist and even to agree to carry out the whole or part of a development for the necessary work to be carried out by Australian private enterprise. On the other hand clause 9.( 1 ) states: 
The Corporation shall not agree to carry out the whole or a part, of an overseas development project in accordance with paragraph 6 ( 1 ) (d) unless- 
an Australian private organisation that is able and willing to carry out, on behalf of the Corporation, some or all of the work to be carried out in relation to the project requests it to do so; and, 
b ) the Minister appro  oves  its doing so. 
Sub-clause (2) states: 
The Minister shall not give an approval for the purposes of sub-section ( 1 ) with regard to an overseas development project unless he is satisfied that there is no Australian private organisation able and willing to carry out the project, or part of the project, concerned. 
That would appear to me to be in conflict with clause 6. 
But clause 9 says that the Corporation shall not agree to carry out any pan of the project whereas clause 6 says it can. 
Obviously the honourable senator went to a different school from the one I went to because to me the verbiage is most confusing. That is not the only confusion that I find in the Bill. There seems to be some contradiction or conflict between clause 7 and clause 8. Clause 7(1) states: 
Subject to sub-section (2) the Corporation shall not engage, whether as principal or agent, in the buying or selling of goods. 
The clause goes on to say that the Corporation can buy goods for use by the Corporation within Australia and subsequently sell such goods. I would have thought that the proposals before us would have been for the promotion of Australian goods as well as Australian services. However, if the Corporation is prohibited from engaging as either principal or agent in the buying or selling of goods there is no promotional aspect to the activities of the Corporation at all. 
Only if the private firms see themselves as capable of carrying out part or all of the contract. If this is the case they may apply to the Corporation. Clause 8(1) states: 
Where the Corporation is aware that an Australian private organisation is able and willing to carry out an overseas development project or a part of an overseas development project, the Corporation shall not, unless the Minister otherwise approves, take any action that would result in that project or that part of the project being carried out, in whole or in part, by the Corporation, whether acting as a principal or as an agent, or by an Australian consortium that includes the Corporation. 
Therefore this Bill is saying that whilst we are giving the Corporation the capacity to organise, to assist and to inform the private enterprise area of contracts that are available, it must not engage in the act of work to be carried out even though the members that are going to subscribe or participate in that project may be members of the Corporation. I find myself in a rather confused area here. 
But this organisation we are proposing to set up is supposed to be representing those private enterprise organisations. Clause 8(2) states: 
Where an Australian private organisation becomes aware that the Corporation- 
is negotiating with another person or other persons - 
Presumably another private enterprise area- with a view to the formation of an Australian consortium to carry out the whole, or a part, of an overseas development project; or 
is negotiating with an overseas Government, authority or organisation with a view to agreeing to carry out the whole or a part of an overseas development project in accordance with paragraph 6 ( 1 ) (d), the Australian private organisation may lodge with the Minister an objection to that action of the Corporation. 
Sub-clause (3) states: 
Where an Australian private organisation- 
lodges an objection with the Minister under subsection (2) relating to negotiations being carried on by the Corporation - 
It is representing private enterprise. We are agreed on that point,  Senator Young?  It is representing private enterprise. Let me read subclause (3) in full: 
Where an Australian private organisation- 
lodges an objection with the Minister under subsection (2) relating to negotiations being carried on by the Corporation; and 
b ) satisfies the Minister that it - 
The second private organisation- 
. is able and willing to carry out the project, or the part of the project, to which those negotiations relate, the Minister may direct the Corporation to cease those negotiations. 
What on earth is that provision supposed to mean? It is supposed to mean that if we have a private enterprise organisation in the middle of a contract overseas, and represented by the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation, and another private Australian organisation determines that the project is work which it could have done, it can lodge an objection with the Minister and so, cause work on that project to cease? 
-So, the limit of this Corporation is not having the power-- 
For goodness sake! Basically, what the honourable senator is saying is that if one private organisation, through the Corporation, is in the middle of a contracted project- for instance building a dam in Saudi Arabia- another private enterprise organisation in Australia which determines that it is able and willing to carry out that project or even part of the project can go to the Corporation and, through the Corporation to the Minister, lodge an objection on the basis I have outlined and have that project stopped. What will that do for Australian private enterprise? What will it do for the Australian Government? What will it do for the Australian people? We are talking about overseas projects. 
I will touch on that in a moment. We are talking in the main about substantial projects. We are talking not only about monetary gain for the Australian companies involved, or the private enterprises as this Bill delicately calls them, but also of Australian prestige, Australian expertise, Australian design and technology. In other words, we are talking about selling Australia overseas and about selling Australian development overseas. 
Whether it be public or private, as  Senator Wriedt  interjects, I touched on that earlier. I once again express my concern that constantly we have presented to this House legislation which sets Australian against Australian, private enterprise against the public sector, when there is no value in such legislation to the people of Australia who look to this Government for the lead. What lead do they get? There is this division all the way through. Why are we not looking for the best of both worlds and saying: 'Let us put this together, get the best from both sides and sell Australia and Australian expertise not only in Australia but also in the big wide world around us'? 
I express my concern that this Bill is not providing power to promote the use of Australian goods overseas. The Opposition is asking in relation to Australian technology whether there is any value in tendering for a job. The technical people who are to do the tendering for a project know that they can rely on Australian private enterprise to provide them with material that they can use and then saying that the Corporation shall not engage in the buying or selling of goods outside Australia. Are we to promote Australian private enterprise, our private industries, our manufacturing industries outside Australia, or are we to curtail the activities of this Corporation by not giving it the power to buy and to sell? I would like to ponder for a few moments what the Australian Chamber of Manufactures has had to say about this Bill. I wonder what the Chamber of Commerce, which was so outspoken in its condemnation of the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation Bill in 1975, has had to say about this Bill. I am constrained to ask whether they are just as confused as I am about it and have had very little at all to say about the Bill. This Government should be playing a leading, guiding and dominant role in the projection of Australian private and public enterprises overseas. We should be looking to this Government to promote Australian development overseas but, unfortunately, this Bill will not do that. I understand that the Opposition will be moving amendments during the Committee stages of this Bill and I will be supporting those amendments. 
It is not my intention at this late hour to delay the Senate for any length of time but I want firstly to comment on the matter of the noncalling of a meeting of the Joint House Committee. I am a member of that Committee and I am concerned that until now no action has been taken by the Presiding Officers to make sure that we met and discussed this issue. I recognise, as  Senator McLaren  said, that since October last year we have met but four times and I have attended two of those meetings because they happened to be called on a Thursday at a time when the Senate Standing Committee of which I am also a member normally meets. One must question whether in actual fact meeting on a Thursday is not by design of the secretary of the Joint House Committee. We could quite easily meet on a Tuesday when neither of the parties has its caucus meeting. It is at the beginning of the week. We could have more time to discuss the matters on the agenda and in actual fact we would have time to raise issues before the end of the sitting week is upon us. 
This brings me to the reason why I have entered the adjournment debate tonight and that is to talk once again about the irresponsible attitude of the Press. This seems to be the only occasion when I ever need to rise in the adjournment debate. I want to quote a little article from the  Daily News  of Tuesday, 12 September. It is entitled 'MPs turn to self-service.' The article states: 
Canberra, today: A number of Federal MPs brought their own food and drink to Parliament House today to counteract the effects of a strike by catering staff. 
All MPs have their own small refrigerators in their rooms. 
Let me assure the Press at large that I do not have a refrigerator in my room. My room is nine feet by six feet. It contains a desk, three chairs, all the necessary shelves for the books that I try to read and a filing cabinet. There is no room for a refrigerator and I think it is a gross impertinence on the part of the Press to publish that all members have their own small refrigerators in their rooms. No less impertinent is an article also contained in the  Daily News  of 12 September 1978- it is the early edition, the airmail editionwith a glaring headline which states 'Gallup Poll shows: Most Favour WA N-Unit, which is presumably the nuclear unit. I want to read this particular article. I think it is vitally important because it demonstrates the completely immoral and irresponsible attitude that is being adopted by the Press throughout Australia to endeavour to encourage people, the consumers of news, to believe that something is what it is not. 
Honourable senators will be aware that the headlines of the first edition normally constitute the billboards which advertise that day's news. Yesterday, on my way to the airport, I was greeted by the headline 'Most Favour WA N-Unit ' on the billboards. I was quite surprised by what I read in the article. I will quote it in its entirety. A couple of important paragraphs were excluded from a second edition of the newspaper. The article reads: 
Most Australians are in favour of constructing a nuclear power plant in Western Australia, according to a recent poll. 
Forty-six per cent of Australians said they were in favour, while 42 per cent were opposed to the idea, reports the Gallup Poll. 
The article does not make any mention of the other 12 per cent. One must presume that they were undecided or did not know. The article goes on: 
However, compared with four other possible sources of energy which Australia may be developing, the nuclear support was small. 
Seventy-nine per cent of people said should be developing solar energy as a potential energy source. 
The next most favoured energy sources were oil from coal (35 per cent) and hydro power (34 per cent). 
Nuclear power rated fourth with 22 per cent, and tidal power ( 1 7 per cent) last. 
The last paragraph, incidentally, was left out of the later edition. The article by then, of course, had been relegated to page three. The article continues: 
These results came from a Gallup Poll conducted in August among 1958 people aged 16 and over, in all States and the ACT. 
So the poll is not really relevant to what people would like to see in Western Australia. How can it be relevant to people on the eastern seaboard if  Sir Charles  Court goes ahead with his plan to put in a nuclear energy unit in Western Australia? The people on the eastern seaboard would be only too happy to see the unit in Western Australia. They do not want it themselves. The article goes on: 
Those interviewed were first asked: 
In view of world shortages of oil and coal, which ones of these various sources of energy, if any, should Australia be developing?'- Solar energy; Hydro power; Oil from coal; Nuclear power; Tidal power; None of these. 
They were then asked: 
Do you favour or oppose the proposed construction of a nuclear power station in Western Australia?' 
Men and women were in fairly close agreement on each of the first four sources of energy named on the card, but nuclear power was favoured by nearly twice as many men as women (29 percent against 15 percent). 
Nuclear power was also advocated by twice as many Liberal-NCP voters as ALP voters. 
Solar energy received somewhat greater support from the 16-39 age group (83 per cent) than from the 40-and-over group (74 per cent). 
On the question of constructing a nuclear power station in Western Australia, there were some very marked differences of opinion. 
The proposal was favoured by definite majorities of men, older people and Liberal-NCP voters, but opposed by women, younger people - 
One would presume that as the word 'people' is used some men would be amongst them- and ALP supporters. 
Considered by States, the biggest majority in favour occurred in Western Australia itself (52 per cent to 37 per cent- though the sample here was necessarily small ), 
It does not say how small- and next highest in New South Wales (50 per cent to 40 per cent). 
The first question asked on the various sources of energy was previously asked in a Gallup Poll conducted in June 1977. 
The next paragraph, which once again was excluded from the second edition, reads: 
Comparison of the results of the two polls shows a pronounced upwards swing (from 68 per cent to 79 percent) in favour of solar energy, and a swing from 29 per cent up to 34 per cent in favour of hydro power. 
What the article also does not say is that there was a downwards swing in support for nuclear energy over that same period from June 1977, when there was 24 per cent support, to August 1 978 when there was only 22 per cent support. We have three daily newspapers in Perth. I suppose that we can count the  Australian,  as it is now published in Western Australia, as a daily newspaper. Some people, because of the increased costs over recent months, no longer buy both other daily newspapers. There are some who buy both newspapers in the hope that they will get the full story. There are some who cannot afford to buy any and they rely on other forms of the media. But I am most concerned that we continue to allow the Press to fabricate a story, as I have just proved with the actual story it has published. I am concerned that it should fabricate a front page story to provide a billboard to publicise something that does not even exist. According to the same gallup poll, there is not the support, either in Western Australia or in the rest of Australia, for a nuclear energy station. Yet the Press has the audacity, the hide, the gall to put up as a headline: 'Most Favour WA N-Unit'. 
I know that I can report this matter to the Press Council. I cannot see any value at all in reporting a matter to the Press Council when I am asking the Press to adjudicate on one of its own members. I know that other members of the community can also report the matter to the Press Council, and I question now whether it is not time that we in this Parliament insisted that the Press Council should accept some of the responsibility for its member newspapers. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs inform the Senate as to the truth in reports that because of cuts to Aboriginal welfare programs it has been necessary for a charitable organisation to agree to fund a comprehensive nutritional program for Aboriginal children in New South Wales? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the total in the original submission by the Aboriginal Health Service in New South Wales, the amount the Government will appropriate for this program and the amount being donated by the Freedom From Hunger Campaign? 
Obviously we are stimulating debate on the States Grants (Home Care) Bill 1978 because a number of honourable senators who are not listed to enter this debate are rising to speak. Perhaps they can take the opportunity to do so at a later stage. I was extremely interested in what  Senator Davidson  had to say. I am glad that he recognised that aged people do in actual fact want to stay in their own homes. This Bill does not provide for them to do that.  Senator Davidson  said that aged people are independent and that they want their independence; that they want to stay in their own homes. They cannot do that in the main without government assistance. State governments cannot always provide it because they are dependent on Federal governments. Local governments can provide it to a certain extent but they can do so only by imposing taxes on some other sections of the community.  Senator Davidson  said that local governments are very well suited to the provision of home care services. I agree that they are very well suited to the provision of home care services. They still need finance to provide those services. 
I recognise that it is taxpayers' money, but the Government has most of the money and it is not prepared to give it to the States for the provision of these services. 
Obviously neither of the honourable senators on the Government benches who are interjecting has read the Bill because the proposed amendment to section 6 of the Act will reduce the money payable to the States in connection with an approved home care service scheme from the present two-thirds to one-half. The amendment proposed in the Bill to section 10 of the Act will reduce the money payable to the States for the payment of the salary of welfare officers at senior citizen centres, once again, from two-thirds to one-half. The Australian Council on the Ageing, the Pensioners' Federation and Professor Henderson as well as local government bodies are all protesting about these proposed changes. I intend, in a moment, to read some of the remarks of a few of those people about this matter. Firstly, I shall read a telegram sent to one of my colleagues from Caroline Hogg, Mayor of the Collingwood City Council and  chairman  of the meeting referred to in the telegram: 
A meeting of 55 Victorian councils on 1 3 September urged the Government to restore the 2 for 1 home help subsidy. The meeting produced figures showing severe effects on local government finances, its ability to maintain home help services and its opportunity to expand services this year. We urge you to raise the matter on our behalf during the Budget debate and within your parties. 
I am not waiting for the Budget debate to bring this matter forward because I am concerned now about this Bill that we are asked to pass. Professor Henderson criticised the cutbacks and described them as negative economics. He said that the Government's decision to cut its contribution towards home help services and the salaries of welfare officers employed by local councils would not save money. He also said that it would cost the Government $10,000 a year for every aged pensioner who was institutionalised because' he could not cope alone at home.  Senator Davidson,  in his speech, said that aged persons would like to be able to cope at home. How can they do that if they do not have the finances coming from local, State or Federal governments? This Bill does not provide that assistance. Money is being taken away from the State governments, which in turn will take money away from local government, which will result in a reduction in the provision of these services rather than an expansion of them. The councils have already said that they want to expand these services. 
Professor Henderson said it would also cost an immeasurable amount in human hardship, family breakdown and psychological stress. He said also that the States are already in a difficult position and were much more likely to cut back their own contribution to the program than to make up the difference. He said that there is a real danger that staff will be cut back and services will be cut back. Professor Henderson accused the Government of leading local governments up the garden path by offering subsidies for welfare schemes and then not continuing to pay for them once they were operating. Local government is going to stop providing welfare services because it has become fed up with being left holding the baby. Scores of frail old people will be forced into institutions because of this decision. Many people would die without seeing their homes again. 
Nothing is quite so devastating as seeing aged people in these institutions. If members of the Government benches have not seen it, let me recommend that one of these days they go to one of the institutions for aged people and see the absolute devastation of those people who recognise that because they are now institutionalised they are no longer independent. What elderly people basically need is their independence- not to be a burden on society, not to be a burden in an institution, but to remain on their own homes and to care for themselves as much as possible with a little outside help. A Press release from the Australian Council on the Ageing had this to say: 
While State governments and non-government organisations do much, support from the Federal Government is essential. The Federal Government is reducing its contribution by one-third. There is a body of expert opinion which states that older people should be assisted to remain in their own homes whenever possible rather than in institutional care . . . This can only mean a reduction in service with the prospect of more aged people seeking admission to institutional forms of accommodation at far greater cost to themselves and the community. 
The newspapers have not been backward in their criticism of this particular legislation either. The  Age  editorial on 8 August 1 978 said: 
This manifestly false economy is estimated to save the Commonwealth $3. 8m. This paltry saving will not do much to reduce an expected deficit of more than $3,000m. It could however do much to increase the distress of some of the most vulnerable people in the community and ultimately cost much more. 
I understand, from the last sentence, that it could cost much more to those people who will die much sooner because they have lost their independence. Professor Henderson, who has brought down so many magnificent reports in this Parliament and who is recognised throughout Australia as the person most capable of assessing the situation from a social security angle, in a letter to the editor of the  Age  on 28 August 1978, had this to say: 

 Senator Guilfoyle *s reply to criticism that the amendments to the States Grants (Home Care) Act will lead to a reduction in the provision of domiciliary services is unconvincing  (Hansard,  16 August, Senate, page 49). 
The statement that an increase in Commonwealth funds for schemes of $2 to $3m has been provided does not mean that it will be spent, for that would only happen if a much larger increase in funds were provided by States and local governments in order to attract Commonwealth subsidy at the lower rate of $ 1 for $ 1 instead of $2 for $ 1 . 
States and local authorities are short of money this year due to the restrictions imposed by the Commonwealth. They are being told that now they must provide 50 per cent instead of 33  Vs  per cent, that is, an extra 16% per cent towards the joint Commonwealth/State contribution to the cost of domiciliary services. 
In the circumstances, it is clear that there will be a cut in provision of such services. 

 Mr Hamer has already said that in Victoria his Government is unlikely to be able to offset the reduction of Commonwealth funding and maintain the level of services. 
-This is on 28 August in the Melbourne  Age.  He went on to say: 
This is happening at a time when there are great unmet needs for services, a steady increase in the proposition of aged people in the population and great pressure on institutional accommodation. 
Since domiciliary services are much cheaper than institutional care or other alternatives, this is an excellent example of penny-wise, pound-foolish. 
The letter is signed by Professor Ronald F. Henderson, Director of the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research, University of Melbourne. If we think that we are concerned only with the aged people and the effect that these amendments will have on them, I think we should pay some attention to the effect they will have on the children of these aged people. These children are not always in a position to help the aged people in the community. They may want to help them but find themselves economically or financially unable to do so. As I said before, if members on the Government benches have ever visited aged people in aged homes they would have seen the way in which they are institutionalised and suddenly find themselves regimented from the time they wake in the morning until the time they go to bed. Breakfast is generally served at 8 o 'clock in the morning and tea at 4 o 'clock to 4.30 in the afternoon. So, because of the demands on the time of the staff of those institutions, these people are treated as though they are less than human. It should be recognised that, because of the increased costs, of running institutions over the last few years, the provision of staff becomes a major concern to the people operating the institutions. The C-class hospitals and the domiciliary care that is talked about by Professor Henderson are areas where there have been large cost increases for food, staff and medical attention. It is not possible for these organisations to continue to expand without some form of relief. If we are suddenly going to say- as I believe this Bill is saying- that we will commit more people to an institutionalised lifestyle we have to make provision for them. But the Government has not done that either. I would not like to see that happen; I would prefer to have elderly people remain in their own homes. 
I am very concerned that in my own area in Western Australia, which is an old area, a great number of people rely on the local council for their domiciliary services, as they rely on Meals on Wheels to provide them with hot meals each day. The  Chadstone Progress  newspaper of 16 August published an article under the headline Elderly may be forced out of homes'. It had some comments that were worth making. In a separate article headed 'We need the help' the newspaper told the story of an elderly couple who at the moment are in receipt of home help services and who are now in danger of losing those services. The wife is 88 years of age, paralysed and in need of constant care. Her husband, who is 85 years of age, is quite active but not getting any younger. The article states: 
We'd both have been in institutions long ago if it wasn't for the council's home-help service,' . . . 
We have a lady who comes round each week to help and we are getting meals-on-wheels too '. 
Harold expressed the fears of hundreds of other elderly couples in Caulfield who may be affected by the decision to halve the subsidy for home-care services. 
We simply couldn't keep our home going if the services were cut or taken away ', he said. 
These people have lived in Caulfield for the last 50 years. What right, I ask, has the Government now to propose that these people should become institutionalised simply because of this mad phobia that this Government has in relation to a reduction in the rate of inflation? We hear Government senators say: 'We have been able to reduce the rate of inflation'. I would dearly like someone on the Government benches to tell me what benefit this has been to the majority of people. 
I am quite serious when I say this. Can  Senator Missen  tell me for instance of one item of food in the supermarket whose price has been reduced since the Government cut the inflation rate? People still have to eat. Perhaps  Senator Missen  does not consider that. 
Bring the question back down to that issue for the consumers in the community because that is how they rate inflation. That is how they see the inflation rate- in the benefits that they have in the purchasing power of the money that they take home each week. 
I have not said that I would prefer to see the inflation rate back at anything. I am just making the point that I am sick and tired of hearing Government members who have this mania telling us how they have been able to reduce the inflation rate. I am simply asking them to tell me what has been reduced as far as the ordinary consumers in the community are concerned. Strange as it may seem, we are debating amendments to the States Grants (Home Care) Act. If the proceedings were being broadcast anybody listening would be wondering whether in actual fact that was what we were debating. I would like to continue to quote some of the people who have addressed themselves to this problem and who are concerned in the area of the provision of home help services. A letter which has been sent to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and  Mr Street  was written by the Winchelsea Social Development Committee. It reads: 
As members of the Winchelsea Social Development Committee we are concerned generally for the needs of the people within the Winchelsea district and in particular for the older members of our community. We are therefore dismayed to learn of the Federal Government's decision to reduce the subsidy for home care services. 
We feel that the effect of this reduction will distress many people and we trust that you will reconsider the decision. 
One hopes that perhaps we might see the same thing that happened in this Parliament when the Government announced that it intended taking away the pensioners' funeral benefits. But I doubt that that will happen. I think that honourable senators on the Government benches have lost their guts, their get-up-and-go and their concern for other people. If they had not they would have been speaking out in their party rooms and in this Parliament against this legislation in which they can see the blatant attempt by this Government to force people who at their age are unable to care for themselves into a situation in which in the majority of cases they will have to give up their homes, become institutionalised and become dependent on domiciliary services. 
That is not quite good enough. It is all right for  Senator Walters  to sit there and say: 'Oh, hogwash' or whatever the interjection was. 
No. I imagine  Senator Walters  would use something much more ladylike, but unless she speaks up I cannot hear her interjections. If she continues to mutter I will have to presume that she says: 'Hogwash'. As I have said, I hope that every member on the Government benches has been inundated with the amount of mail with which I have been inundated. I have had correspondence from local government organisations and even from some State government members who are concerned about this issue. I hope that Government members are in receipt of correspondence from individuals expressing their concern, and I hope that they find the moral fortitude- perhaps one could say that if the word 'guts' offends  Senator Walters-  now to declare what their Government will do and what they will do about what is the Government's intention in this Bill. I support the shadow Minister for Social Security in his opposition to the Bill. 
I present the following petition from 149 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable The  President  and Members of The Senate in Parliament Assembled: The Humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the means test on pensions causes undue hardship to them. 
We call on the Government to immediately abolish the means test on all Aged Pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that All Australian Citizens will retire with dignity. 
Acknowledge that a pension is a right and not a charity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I rise today to utilise the opportunity of the motion for the first reading of a money Bill to put forward what in normal circumstances would have been my contribution to the Budget debate. I understand that the Government is rather anxious to have that debate concluded at the earliest opportunity and I therefore consented to the withdrawal of my name from the list of speakers in an endeavour to assist the Government. However, there are a number of things I want to say in this first reading debate. Most members of this House will recognise that I do not normally speak on what could be described as women's issues. In fact, I have said many times here and in other places that there are no women 's issues, and I would like to see the time when there are only people 's issues. It is unfortunate that neither the Government nor some of the community recognises this. 
I want to talk about the 1978-79 Budget and women in specific areas. Women have been particularly hard hit by this Budget and many will suffer considerable distress as a direct result of the Government's priorities. In general terms, I believe we can expect higher unemployment among women, decreased spending power, especially among lower income families, reduced services, and hardship arising from the decision to index pensions only once yearly. Family allowances have not been indexed since they were introduced and thus their value has fallen by over 27 per cent since 1976. The imposition of a means test on a child's income, which has now been withdrawn, showed among other things an appalling lack of awareness and sensitivity on the part of the Government of how lower income families live. Children's services, already grossly inadequate, have had their funds reduced by  5lA  per cent. Maternity allowances have been abolished altogether. Last year, under the scheme a total of $7m was paid to some 200,000 mothers. Funds for family planning services have been reduced by 6.3 per cent in real terms. Cuts in community health program spending will mean drastically reduced services by women's health centres and refuges, despite increased demands and increased costs. The financial position of these vital support services remains tenuous and therefore totally inadequate under the Government's federalism policy. The organisations involved are finding it increasingly difficult to function because of diminishing funds and no long-term financial commitment on the part of the Federal Government. 
Two weeks ago I had drawn to my attention a matter which relates to the Emmaus Women's Refuge in Glendower Street in North Perth. I wrote to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  because I found that this refuge is existing mainly for the support of Aboriginal women who find themselves in rather delicate domestic circumstances and require some form of home in which to live until government agencies can take up their plight. I received from the Emmaus Women's Refuge a letter which states: 
We would like to draw your attention to the funding crisis which is threatening our refuge. Unless this crisis is resolved, we face closure within the next month. The situation is therefore desperate. 
Enclosed please find a copy of the submission which has been sent to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs via 'Aboriginal Hostels Inc.'. We approached DAA because we had so many Aboriginal women and children staying with us. 
This submission sets out the structure of funding, the way we established funding and the reason for the discontinuation of funding since June. 
Since our funding has been stopped, we have tried alternative sources to try to meet the 23 per cent commitment which Emmaus must produce in order to obtain the other 73 per cent from Public Health. 
These avenues include: 
. Department of Community Welfare- DCW has funds to enhance the welfare of children in refuges- but cannot contribute towards the running costs of refuges. 
The Department of Social Security (Office of Child Care) again funds are not available for the actual running costs of women 's refuges. 
We also contacted many organisations in the voluntary sector (such as Centre Care, the Uniting Church, et cetera) but have had no success. 
Representations have been made to Ray YoungMinister for Health and Welfare. A deputation from Emmaus, ACRAH and Mary Smith (the 3 refuges experiencing financial difficulties) was made on Wednesday, 20 September. 
From this deputation, Ray Young agreed to contact Treasury on behalf of these refuges. However, the outcome of this approach to Treasury is not at all certain and may take some time. 
Public Health have arranged for someone from Canberra to come to Penh to 'assess the situation'. However, we fear that by the time the 'situation has been assessed ' we will have already been forced to close. 
We hope that you will be able to take up our case, as we are very concerned about the plight of the women who live at Emmaus as a result of homelessness- and who are again facing the prospect of further homelessness. 

 Mr President, the copy of the submission is quite detailed and I think because it indicates the amount of voluntary work that goes into the running of a refuge, I should read it into the  Hansard  record. Under the heading 'Emmaus Women's Refuge- Operation', it states: 
Emmaus Women's Refuge has been operating from its current address at 2 1 Glendower Street, North Perth for four months (since 15 May 1978). 
Prior to this date, Emmaus refuge was located for one month at another address which proved unsatisfactory. 
I believe that the other address was unsatisfactory only because the building was not big enough to cater for all of the families that needed the support of a women's refuge. The submission continues: 
One month was also spent in looking for a more appropriate site for a women's refuge. 
It has therefore been approximately six months since Emmaus was originally granted Federal funding. 
Basis of Funding 
As with all other women's refuges in WA the basis of funding is- 
Fifty per cent of capital costs to be met by Federal funds Seventy-five per cent of running costs to be met by Federal funds. 
The rest of the money to be met by the refuge itself or by other bodies (e.g. State funds). 
This money is administered through a State committee of the Public Health Department. 
Submission by Emmaus for Funding 
The financial year operates from July to June. However, funding is usually carried over until October. New submissions are received in February. Emmaus' submission for the next financial year has already been sent in. It is not markedly different from the original submission. 
The original submission (for which funding was granted) put to the Government that we would meet our 25 per cent of running costs through the contribution of our staff remuneration. 
Emmaus is run on a roster basis which is divided into shifts of: 9.00 a.m. to 1.00 p.m. 
00 p.m. to 5.00 p.m. 5.00 p.m. to 9.00 p.m. 
Over night. 
Most of the women who work on the roster can only give their time as their contribution. As most of the roster women receive income from elsewhere (e.g. Tertiary Allowance, Supporting Mothers' Benefit) it is impossible for roster women to sign for wages and thus lose their own income. 
Therefore, the original submission included a general wages remuneration figure. Most of this money was donated back as our 25 per cent contribution. Some roster women do receive some money for their services. 
Non-continuation of Funding 
After six months of operation, Public Health refuse to accept our staff remuneration policy. Therefore we can no longer raise our 25 per cent contribution by re-donating our wages. 
Emmaus has therefore decided to turn to other sources to try to obtain our 25 per cent of funding. 

 Mr President, I think it is a rather sad state of affairs when there are people who can contribute nothing but their time to running a welfare organisation which should be totally funded by either Federal or State governments or by both and those people suddenly find that their contribution, the re-donating of their wages, is taken away from their general funding area. The submission goes on: 
We have had no funds at all since June 1 978. 
How can a support service of this nature, which is so necessary in our community, continue without any public funding from June until September 1978 and on the premise, rather than on the promise, that someone from Canberra is going to come to assess the situation shortly. The submission continues: 
Our rent is paid only until the end of September. We therefore face closure. We meet on 16 September 1978 to discuss closing Emmaus. 
This year, Federal Budget allowed another $300,000 for refuges in WA. However, it appears likely that this money won't be spent, as no-one can provide the other 25 per cent. 
By drastically reducing our budget, we have been able to reduce our running costs to the extent where our 25 per cent is only $400 per month. In doing so, we provide only the most basic necessities towards the running of the refuge and have cut many expenses which we would have liked to have met. 
The submission then gives the following chart of monthly expenditure: 
Monthly Expenditure 
Total expenditure- $ 1 , 600 per month; Emmaus- 25 per cent contribution-$400; Public Health contribution-$ 1,200. 

<graphic href="078232197809286_49_0.jpg"></graphic>

The submission goes on: 
Aboriginal population 
We brought our problem to the attention of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, and to Aboriginal Hostels Ltd, as we have had a totally Aboriginal population for some time now, and therefore believe that DAA has some commitment to our problem. 
Emmaus Women's Refuge provides emergency accommodation for homeless women and children. However Aboriginal women often have a great deal of difficulty in finding alternative accommodation, and tend to stay at Emmaus longer than white women. 
Most of the Aboriginal women who come to Emmaus, have been housed by the State Housing Commission in the past- and have arrears on their previous tenancy which must be cleared before the Commission will consider re-housing. 
This situation applies to each of the three women and their twelve children currently residing at Emmaus. As we are filled to capacity it is not unreasonable to assume that this fifteen people will require accommodation for some time more. 
We have extracted figures from our Register Book which highlight this situation. 
As at 12.9.78: 
We have had a totally Aboriginal population for 15 days. 
No change is likely as all are experiencing difficulties with their applications to the State Housing Commission. 
Prior to this, we had an 80 per cent Aboriginal population for a further 2 1 days. 
Therefore in the past five weeks we have had at least an 80 per cent Aboriginal population. 
Since commencing operation from Glendower Street that is, in the past four months there has only ever been a three day period of a totally white population. There has been a further eight days when the proportion of Aboriginal women and children has been at least 80 per cent. 
In the four month period, we have had 37 white women and children who stayed 191 days, 34 Aboriginal women and children who stayed 1 70 days in total. 
In terms of 'person-days' the figures are- white population stayed 530 person days; Aboriginal population stayed 658 person days. 
There are three Aboriginal families who have been resident there for quite some time. One adult with five children has been there 15 days  and on-going; one Aboriginal woman with five children has been there 36 days and on-going; and one Aboriginal woman with two children has been there 83 days and on-going. This submission continues: 
Emmaus cannot really hold more than the 1 5 people currently residing there, although we have squeezed another 4 people in emergency conditions. 
I think it is about time that the Government recognised that there is a need for these refuges and whether they are funded through the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Department of Health or the Department of Social Security really does not matter as long as funding is available and in this Budget this year it is not going to be available. As I have already said, cuts in community health program spending will mean drastic reduction in the number of services provided by women's health centres and refuges despite increased demand and costs, and the figures are there to prove not only increased costs but also increased demand. There is an increase in demand for women's refuges because in the past there has never been an opportunity to provide services somewhere where, in a rather disastrous domestic situation, women could suddenly gopacking, if necessary, in the middle of the night and taking themselves and their children. It is about time that this Government recognised that need and fulfilled the need. 
I listened with great interest to  Senator Kilgariff  last night and I was rather disturbed by a statement he made in which he said: 
There is no doubt that there are married women in the work force because they need money for various reasons, such as to bring up their families and so on. 
I would say too that there are in the work force married women who do not need to be there at all; some of them work in industry out of sheer boredom. 
At the time I interjected and said that we can insist, I suppose, that they stay inside their four walls and become another drug statistic, a potential suicide or a child basher. I think that if we look at statistics we will see that when some of these women who are confined to the house feel emotionally insecure in the house they become one or all of those things. I think that it is rather improper for  Senator Kilgariff  to use the floor of this chamber to denigrate the women who are in the work force and who are contributing to the economic stability of the country. 
I was in the chamber on Tuesday night when  Senator McLaren  was speaking about the Werriwa by-election which was held last Saturday and I listened to  Senator Messner's  interjections. I am convinced that he is one Government member who does not even believe the figures of that by-election. But now that  Mr 
John Kerin has taken his place in the other House perhaps  Senator Messner  will have to believe that there has already been a public reaction to the Government and to the Budget that has been introduced. But there is a great deal of confusion about the Budget because I found myself in a situation where I was confused about a number of areas. I was confused, for instance, about the means test which was to apply to the family allowances of families where the children receive an income. I was fairly sure that I knew what it was all about when I read the Budget Papers. Whilst I was not happy about it, I thought that I knew what it was all about. I accepted that the Government had made the decision. Then the Minister for Social Security  (Senator  Guilfoyle)  came into this chamber and assured us that the Government was reviewing the situation and that the means testing of the children's income did not- I repeat, did notapply to income derived from personal exertion by the child. 
Last week the Minister came into the chamber and said that the Government had reviewed the situation and decided that the children's allowance would be penalised at the rate of $ 1 in every $4 where the child earned in excess of $20 a week. I can assure the Senate that I was still a little unhappy about that and you,  Mr Deputy President,  will recall that we had quite an extensive debate on this issue in the Senate last week. In fact I can recall my colleague from Queensland,  Senator Georges,  expressing his concern that during a debate in this House when the Minister was being accused of misleading the Parliament not only was she not present in the chamber but no Ministers on the Government bench were prepared to support her in any way. Members of the Opposition were concerned that a Minister of the Crown- a senior Minister at that- was under attack and that no one on the Government side was prepared to come to her defence. I think that honourable senators will have to agree that it is a most unusual situation for Opposition members to be expressing their concern on behalf of a Minister of the Crown. 
The situation became even more confusing when it was announced this week that no means test would apply at all. That means that we have had three changes just in that one area since the Budget was introduced on 15 August. Perhaps that is part of the reason that there was a vote in excess of 67 per cent in favour of the Labor Party candidate in the Werriwa by-election last weekend. Whether or not the Government accepts it, the people are expressing their concern at the confusion which obviously exists in the Government's ranks. They expressed their concern on Saturday at the by-election. If the Government wants to tax family trusts- I understand that this was the purpose of introducing this legislationthere are to my mind two opportunities for it to do so. One is when the trust is set up and the other is when the trust can be used because with a family trust there is either an age limit or a time limit set for when the money can be used. If it is established, for instance, when a child is perhaps 10 years of age, there may be a 15-year time limit, or the terms of the trust might state that while interest accrues the money remains in the trust and is not available until the child turns 25 years of age. Why cannot the money be taxed at the time it can be used? If this was the purpose of the Government's proposal to tax the income of children why cannot it do so at either of those times? If it is done at the time that the trust is to be used the Government will reap the benefit of being able to tax the interest that has accrued over the years as well. My argument is: Why should a female parent have her family allowance penalised when she cannot touch the trust? There is no way she can touch any of that money and it is generally not available for some years after she has lost the use of the family allowance anyway. 
Country people are particularly concerned that the increase in excise on petrol will mean that they will have to pay more for their goods, and of course they will, especially in the remote areas of Western Australia, Queensland and South Australia, and the western parts of Victoria and New South Wales and in Tasmania- in fart anywhere to which goods have to be transported. If we look at Western Australia the people who live outside the metropolitan area are going to be doubly penalised. They are already disadvantaged by higher prices purely and simply because they live where they do. Whether they live there by choice, by design or by birth is not important. A great part of our 1.2 million population in Western Australia resides outside the metropolitan area. They reside in remote areas. 
Oh, we have a population of 1.2 million people and only 650,000 of them live in the metropolitan area. The determination of the metropolitan area is something like 25 miles. But if one happens to live in Armadale or at Kwinana one pays more for goods because they have to be transported from the city down to those areas. In 1973 approximately $800m worth of consumer durables was imported into 
Western Australia from the eastern States. I am not given to quoting from documents of parties in opposition to my own but I have here one from the Westralian Secession Movement which was issued presumably, although I do not know because there is no date on it, when it was contesting the 1 977 election. But the point it makes is a very valid one. It shows that in 1977 interstate imports into Western Australia had increased from the $800m in 1973 which I cited to $1,4 18. 7m; that is, it almost doubled in those four years. There is no reason to believe that that rate of increase will not continue. It means, in effect, that the small organisations in the food marketing areas which operated in Western Australia some time ago have now either diminished their operations or have ceased their operations altogether as a result of takeovers by larger organisations which perhaps operate from the eastern States. I believe it is reasonable to assume that that figure of $1,4 18m will be increased this year. People have to pay to have those goods transported from the eastern States across the Nullabor to Western Australia, and people have to pay to have those goods taken from the metropolitan area to the country areas. So the country people have cause to be concerned at the Government's decision to increase the price of petrol, as it has done. 
I have spoken of only one area of the concern of the Western Australian people, but there are a number of areas of the Budget which concern me. The area about which I wish to speak next is industrial relations. I believe there is a great deal of insensitivity about this matter in Australia. One cannot help but wonder whether there is an orchestrated attempt on the part of some people to distract the attention of the people of Australia away from the repercussions of the Budget by creating industrial disharmony. We had the situation, for instance, involving Miss Barbara Biggs and the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board. In the light of information which has subsequently appeared in the Press, one has to ask whether or not she was really planted by a section of the community simply for the purpose of causing industrial unrest. It will be remembered that at one stage she was on record as saying that she was receiving financial assistance from an organisation which I believe is known as the Organisation Against Communists in Australia, or some such similar name. Then she said that she was not getting any financial assistance at all, that she was simply a conscientious objector to compulsory unionism. 
But I found that the most interesting aspect of her entire case was that when the Tramways 
Board, after arbitration, found her a position other than that of a conductress and when she discovered that she would be paid $20 less a week than another person doing the same work, she was the first to say that she would have to consider joining the appropriate union. How real is her objection to unionism? How real was her objection when she was put up to the Tramways Board? Was she put up to the Board or did she go of her own accord? I believe that her record makes it possible that she was planted there. 
No one is less conscious of the need for good industrial relations in Australia than is the Western Australian Government. It has certainly used its might against the workers in that State. There is the admission that it made a payment to an organisation which was formed for the express purpose of breaking strikes. In that regard I shall refer to an article which appeared in the  Daily News  on Wednesday, 13 September. The article, which was written by John Arthur, is headed: Anti-strike Pay-off. O'Connor: No Apologies'.  Mr O'Connor,  of course, is the most recent Minister for Labour and Industry in the West Australian Parliament. He replaced  Mr Grayden,  who took it upon himself to have an altercation with a member of the police force when he was inebriated. The article to which I referred reads: 
The State Government paid $ 1 ,8 1 5 to Assistance and Security Corporation for trucks used to break the blockade during the flour millers' strike last year. 
The Minister for Labour and Industry,  Mr O'Connor,  said today: 'The fact that the Government hired trucks to move the flour is something for which we make no apology whatsoever'. 
The Minister did not ask me as a taxpayer in Western Australia whether he could use this money for employing trucks to break a strike which was being held by the workers in a particular industry- workers who had a right to strike and who have only one course of action open to them when they are not provided with sufficient money or adequate safeguards for their services, and that is to withdraw their labour. They withdrew their labour and an organisation was formed which was called the Assistance and Security Corporation. The actual make-up of that corporation interests me greatly. Although there is nothing to indicate that there is an association, the manager of that corporation just happens to be a gentleman who was responsible for a right wing coup of the National Council of Civil Liberties in Western Australia last year but who is still unseated,  Mr Brian  Tennant. But he would make no comment about the civil liberties and rights that were being taken away from the people of Western Australia, and rights that were being taken away from the Aboriginal people of Western Australia. He was a former employee of  Mr Rick  New who has devoted a great deal of time in the past entirely to union bashing. 
We hear so many times in this place that the federalism policies of this Government are accepted by State governments, particularly those of the same political colour as the Federal Government, that one is forced to wonder how another item in the same newspaper could, in actual fact, be published. I refer once again to the  Daily News  of 13 September. The front page story of this edition is entitled: 'Court to PM on bauxite: Keep out'. Court, of course, refers to Premier Court. I have some concern in this area because I had already written to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  some weeks earlier. The article is written by Geoff Kitney in Canberra, who wrote: 
The Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, has warned the Federal Government to keep out of the Western Australian bauxite row. 

 Sir Charles has written to  Mr Fraser  warning him against any Federal move for a public inquiry into the Alcoa project at Wagerup. 
It is understood that  Sir Charles  has warned - 
It is to be noted that the article speaks of him warning the Federal Government and yet he is supposed to accept the federalism policies- that a public inquiry and the delay it would cause to development of the project, could stop it going ahead. 
Federal officials, who confirmed  Sir Charles's  warning, indicated today that a final decision by the Federal Minister was near. 
They said that officials of the impact statement assessment division of the Department of Environment would shortly be preparing a report for the Minister of Alcoa's own environmental assessments of the effects of the Wagerup project. 
Perhaps there lies the clue as to why Premier Court is telling  Mr Fraser  and his federalism policies to keep out of Western Australia. Honourable senators might recall that I mentioned in the Senate some months ago my concern that the Western Australian State Government had asked Alcoa to participate in an environmental study of the whole bauxite situation in the Darling Ranges in Western Australia. Whilst I have been told that that report is now freely available to the public, I have since discovered that if people really do want to read the report, which is in two volumes, they have to get it from Alcoa and it will cost them $40. This means that the majority of voluntary environmental groups who want to see what is in the report do not have the wherewithal to get it except by public donation. The article to which I have been referring continues: 
He is believed to have said he does not want a repeat of the Fraser Island and Albany whaling affairs. 

 Sir Charles Court does not want those affairs to be repeated. The article continues: 
In both cases, Federal inquiries led to the closure of the industries. 

 Sir Charles is believed to fear that if development of the Wagemp project is delayed by a public environmental inquiry Alcoa would look elsewhere to invest its money. 
So  Sir Charles  Court adopts an attitude: 'To hell with the environment. What we really want is to keep Alcoa in Western Australia. We do not want it to invest money anywhere else'. The article goes on to say: 

 Sir Charles's letter was sent after a deputation of environmentalists came to Canberra to speak with the Federal Minister for Environment,  Mr Groom. 
The deputation urged him to use his powers under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act, to order a public inquiry into Wagerup. 
After they had spoken to  Mr Groom,  members of the deputation said they thought there was a '50-50 chance' of a Federal public inquiry being ordered. 
I wrote to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development on 23 August. I expressed my concern that there should be a public inquiry into the expansion of bauxite mining in Western Australia. The Minister's reply came to me on Tuesday of this week, on 26 September. This is what the Minister said: 
M8/30/8/6 26 SEP 1978 
Dear  Senator Coleman, 
I refer to your letter of 23 August 1978 and attached press clipping concerning the proposed expansion of bauxite mining in the Darling Ranges, Western Australia. 
I note that you are endeavouring to obtain a copy of the Division of Land Resources Managements report which was released and I enclose a copy of the document for your information. 
Both the Wagerup and Worsley proposals are currently being examined under the provisions of the Commonwealth Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. In both cases environmental assessment has been carried out jointly by Commonwealth and State authorities in accordance with agreed arrangements for co-operation. 
In relation to the proposal by Alcoa to export alumina from the Wagerup project, I have directed that Alcoa prepare and submit to me an environmental impact statement. The draft impact statement has been submitted and advertised for public review between 27 May and 22 July 1978. My Department has forwarded the submissions received to Aloca through the W.A. Department of Conservation and Environment so that the public comment can be taken into account in the preparation of a final impact statement. Following receipt of the final impact statement and consideration of my Department's assessment report, I will assess the need for any additional information and the manner in which information should be sought. 
I have also directed the preparation and submission to me of an environmental impact statement on the proposal by Alwest Pry Ltd and Dampier Mining Ltd in association with Reynolds Australia Ltd to export alumina produced by their proposed Worsley project. The draft impact statement for this proposal is currently available for public review from 22 August 1978 to 17 October 1978. 
Yours sincerely, (Ray Groom) 
I do not intend to read the accompanying nine pages but I will seek leave of the Senate for them to be incorporated in  Hansard. 
No, I have not shown them. I have only just received the letter, as a matter of interest. I am quite happy for the Minister for Science to have a look at the document. 
-I have read the letter into the  Hansard.  It is the nine page document that  Mr Groom  was kind enough to forward to me that I felt would be of interest to the Senate. I am seeking leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

CSIRO 
Division of Land Resources Management 
Comments on the Alcoa ERMP 
This report is based on a submission by this Division to the Commonwealth Department for Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
There are obvious benefits from increasing the scale of bauxite mining operations in this state, such as increased employment and increased overseas earnings. However, in this report we have not discussed these benefits but have concentrated only on the weaknesses and omissions of the ERMP. We have assumed that the readers of this report are already familiar with the ERMP. 
CSIRO is a research organisation financed from public funds. It is responsible for making the results of its research available to the public. 
Introduction 
The CSIRO Division of Land Resources Management have considered the ERMP, as a whole, but these comments are restricted to those aspects on which the Division has professional expertise: economics physiography water supply and quality waste disposal jarrah dieback and reafforestation social aspects 
Summary 
The ERMP is a lengthy and in parts detailed document describing many areas of the environmental, economic and social aspects of bauxite mining in the Darling Ranges of south-western Australia. 
The six aspects examined indicate that, in general, the long term effects of bauxite mining are poorly known. Research in most aspects needs to be intensified in order to quantify these effects prior to any commitment for expansion of bauxite mining activities to the magnitude proposed in the ERMP. 
Economics 
There is some justification for expanding alumina production in WA. The ERMP, while overstating benefits to the balance of payments, is correct in pointing out that the contribution to Australia's external trade balance would be significant. The stated benefits in employment appear to be reasonably accurate estimates. However, on the basis of limited information we suspect that the income to the government from the project is likely to be lower than is claimed in the ERMP. 
We have three main concerns about the economic aspects of the ERMP. First, in order to maintain its market share over the next 1 5 years, Alcoa would only need to expand its alumina production capacity in WA by about 2 million tonnes. However, the ERMP states that Pinjarra is to be expanded in addition to Wagerup. This could lead to the over-commitment of the State's resources. Second, alumina refining is energy intensive. At a time when liquid and gas fuels are becoming scarce, it is pertinent to ask whether alumina production on the scale envisaged is the best use of a versatile energy resource such as natural gas. Third, the ERMP gives a misleading impression of the costs of leaving certain parts of the Darling Range in their natural condition. We believe that there is scope to select environmentally conservative mining strategies, without economic loss to the company or the state. 
Physiography 
The ERMP description of the physical environment is mostly accurate and adequate. 
Water Supply and Quality 
The ERMP is unclear in explaining long term sources of refinery water supply and fails to describe environmental effects of storage structures. 
The ERMP correctly points out that mining in the western catchments listed will have only small effects on stream salinities. No confidence can be attached to any prediction of the effects of mining further east. In addition, the majority of proposed catchment management procedures outlined in the ERMP are unproven. 
Waste Disposal 
Long term problems associated with management of residue disposal areas are ignored in the ERMP. Disposal areas required have been calculated to be considerably larger than land allocated for this purpose in the ERMP. 
Jarrah Dieback and Reafforestation 
Bauxite mining will accelerate the spread of jarrah dieback. There is no evidence that reafforestation will be successful in drier, saltier eastern areas. 
Social Survey 
The social survey provides an adequate background for the population of the Wagerup area. It does not provide a valid assessment of community attitude towards Alcoa. 
Economics 
There is some justification for expanding alumina production in WA. The ERMP, while overstating benefits to the balance of payments, is correct in pointing out that the contribution to Australia's external trade balance would be significant. The stated benefits in employment appear to be reasonably accurate estimates. However, on the basis of limited information we suspect that the income to the government from the project is likely to be lower than is claimed in the ERMP. 
The ERMP fails to establish that Wagerup is required to maintain WAs share of the world alumina market. The growth in the world market since the early 1 960s has been approximately linear at about 1 million tonnes per year. 
If the ' free world ' demand for alumina continued to grow by an annual increment of one million tonnes, and Western Australia were to maintain its share of the market, it would be necessary to increase output by only 0.13 million tonnes per year. 
Distribution of Income 
The table which is presented on page 406 and other published information (Anon. 1978) suggests that very low levels of cost are assumed for intermediate input in the form of caustic soda, energy, time and other supplies and maintenance. Without access to the costs used and other background economic calculations referred to on page 40 1 it is impossible to calculate net cash flow to the company and also net cash flow to the government, yet this is critical to the alleged benefits of the project. 
Balance of Payments 
The real balance of payments implications of the project are not clear from the ERMP. It assumes that natural gas from the North West Shelf will be available to the project after 1987. First, there is no guarantee at present that the North West Shelf project will proceed, and even if it does it has a life expectancy of 27 years compared with an anticipated life of 70 years for the Wagerup Project. Therefore it is probable that the alumina industry will need to import fuel oil or natural gas. Second, if the North West Shelf project does proceed, it is not at all clear what allocation of gas to the alumina industry would be appropriate. Thirdly, the use of North West Shelf gas by the alumina industry would necessitate energy imports to meet the needs of other sectors of the Australian economy and there would be a balance of payments cost. 
Physiography 
The description of the physical environment is mostly adequate and accurate. More detailed information on the deeper soil layers at waste disposal sites is desirable as these materials probably would be used in the construction of the red mud 'lakes' and would have considerable significance to the hydrology of these sites. 
The description of the vegetation of the Darling Range is adequate but the term 'non-protectable forest' has been misinterpreted in the ERMP. This will be discussed in detail under the section on Jarrah Dieback. 
Water Supply and Quality 
Water Supply for the Refinery 
The statements on water supply for the refinery are unclear. A 4 million tonne alumina plant requires 9.3 x 10'm3 of water annually. This is equal to about 5 per cent of the present annual consumption of the Perth metropolitan area. The ERMP accounts for 5.5 x 10'm3 through refinery run-off, small catchment east of the site and Yalup Brook. It is neither clear where the additional 4 x 10'm3 is to come from, nor where such a large volume of water is to be stored. Storage reservoirs described in the ERMP account for storing only 1.2 x 10'm'. 
If the refinery is to be self-sufficient in terms of water supply (i.e. without any requirements from State Water Supply Authorities, as implied by the ERMP), much larger storage structures will be required to account for this volume and to allow for contingency storage. The ERMP does not make any assessment of the impact of these structures. 
Effects of Mining on Water Quality 
The effects on water quality following mining in the western areas are expected to be small due to the extremely low concentrations of salts stored in the soil profile. 
The ERMP uses a model developed by  Dr A.  J. Peck (CSIRO Division of Land Resources Management) to predict salinity changes as a consequence of mining (Peek 1976). The results in the ERMP are consistent with those normally expected in high rainfall areas. However, it should not be assumed that all catchments in high rainfall areas are safe' since large variability in catchment salt storages are known to occur. 
If the same model is used to predict salinity changes further east in the Darling Range, significantly different results are obtained. Some of these areas have much greater amounts of salt stored in the soil profile coincident with relatively high rainfall (800-1000 mm) which is available to leach these salts into streams. 
If this model is applied to the Yarragil catchment (using long term stream flow records (Anon. 1977), estimates of catchment ground-water salinities (Herbert  et al.  1978), and the same percentage of mined areas as used in the ERMP), it predicts an increase in stream salinity from 400 to 1 200 mg/1 of total dissolved salts. If this result is accepted, then mining in this region could significantly increase stream salinity. 
The ERMP correctly points out that the model is likely to overestimate the effect of mining since no allowance is made for the regrowth of healthy forest on the mined areas. However, should reafforestation fail (see section on Rehabilitation) in these drier areas, then the magnitude of an increase in stream salinity given above would be more likely. 
It is important to recognise that the accuracy of the salinity predictions is unknown. Consequently it would be prudent to view the results presented in the ERMP, and those presented here, with extreme caution since many underlying, unproven assumptions have been made. What is evident, is that a great deal more research is required to validate such models before any confidence can be attached to quantitive predictions of salinity changes following mining. 
An omission from the ERMP is the possible water logging of low lying areas downslope from mining due to increase in groundwater levels, and/or increased 'interflow' through contour batters and transmission through the highly conductive topsoil. This mechanism has been observed in experimental studies on mined catchments and areas cleared for agriculture ( Williamson, Hurle Biddiscombe pers. comm.). 
Waste disposal 
The long term problems associated with management of residue disposal areas are not adequately described in the ERMP. In the absence of regulated drainage system the water balance of the mud lakes is such that there will be flooding each winter (Carbon, unpublished data). In the short term the regulated drainage, with recirculation of water to the refinery, will prevent this problem. 
After decommissioning, the total area of residue lakes may be 23 to 30 square kilometres. At present only about 5 square kilometres of land has been put aside for residue disposal. After decommissioning there will be problems of disposal of polluted drainage water from this large area. An important omission from the ERMP is a description of the rate of release of caustic material from red mud. The slowly reversible reaction between the sodium hydroxide and the mud is a long term source of pollution which should have been discussed in the ERMP. 
In the absence of a management plan for post- decommissioning, there must be a risk of water and wind erosion of the mud lakes. Such erosion, especially as a source of dust for summer easterly winds is likely to be an environmental hazard for what may be a populated area by the time the project ends. 
Jarrah dieback 
The link between mining and the spread of dieback is acknowledged in the ERMP and the impact of the spread of dieback on ecological stability is correctly identified. The ERMP, however, tends to view non-protectable areas as doomed' and consequently expendable. This illustrates a misunderstanding of the terms 'protectable' and .-by Those areas classified as 'non-protectable' are mainly areas downslope from existing infections and should be considered 'high risk' areas but by no means 'doomed'. Much of the ongoing research of the Forests Department, CSIRO and Universities is directed at finding methods of protecting these areas and with  lime  a solution may be found. 
In addition to destroying these 'non-protectable' areas, mining operations would introduce infection into protectable areas. 
Reafforestation 
Experience at Jarrahdale and Pinjarra has demonstrated the early success of rehabilitation on the western slope of the Darling Range, but the long term survival, adaptation to environment, water use and effects on hydrologic balance have not been evaluated. 
Evidence is lacking as to how these plantations will respond to perturbations such as fire, which is inevitable in these environments. In addition, it is also possible that dieback will affect the success of new plantings. There is a tendency in the report to talk of 'resistant species' but resistance is only relative. Evidence is accumulating to show that the effects of  Phytophthora  on 'resistant' species is greater than previously thought.  Acacia pulchella,  an understorey shrub is the only plant to show absolute resistance to dieback. 
There is no contingency plan given in the ERMP if the replanted forests fail before maturity. It would appear the risk is to be carried by the State Government. 
Whereas the ERMP refers to a 70-year project life in many parts the rehabilitation problems are often discussed in a 20-year context. At the proposed rate of mining, rehabilitation will be required in the areas of lower rainfall and higher salt storage within 30 years. The lower rainfall, and the higher salt loads in the soils, will make it more difficult to reforest mined and dieback-affected areas. It would seem logical that research on rehabilitation should be given high priority and successful rehabilitation techniques developed before any decision for expansion into drier areas is considered. This research would concentrate on salinity control and the establishment of stable populations of trees and understories. The research listed on page 430 must be a prerequirement to any decision to mine in lower rainfall areas. The nutrient status, and nutrient cycle of replanted mine sites is also a topic requiring continuing research. 
Some of the management strategies proposed on page 434 have not been proven. For example, although dewatering of aquifers beneath mine pits could be successful, this strategy has not been tested in the pallid zone clays of the Darling Range. The proposal (page 435) to mine in a sequence that optimises the balance between salt load and water yield may require immediate entry into the drier, salty areas. This would mean mining prematurely in areas of higher risk for salinity and where dieback is currently under control. 
Social survey 
The scientific validity of the survey on community attitudes is difficult to assess. Perhaps the most important conclusion from the study was that 90% of the people supported the refinery to some degree. This may or may not be the case. Alcoa sponsored the study and Alcoa representatives did some of the interviewing. Such studies are only valid if independent researchers are used. 
Insufficient data is given on the briefing of interviewers causing concern about the quality of responses. 
The design of the questionnaire has serious flaws. Question 24 (Appendix F) asks people to rank the benefits given to the community by Alcoa. No similar ranking of disadvantages is requested. 
Even more importantly, it is only after the ranking of benefits that respondents were asked such questions as whether 'this area will suffer by Alcoa's presence'. Having ranked the benefits, an objective response cannot be obtained- that is, the questionnaire is biased towards Alcoa. 
The survey correctly points out that there was very little knowledge within the community about Alcoa's activities. This suggests that the survey is useful as a preliminary investigation only. More detailed studies with carefully selected sub-samples should be made to observe changes in attitude as awareness increases. 
References 
Anon. (1977). Stream flow records of Western Australia to 1 975. Public Works Department of Western Australia. 
Anon. (1978). 'The benefits of the Wagerup alumina refinery project to the economy of Western Australia'. Department of Industrial Development, Perth. 
Herbert, E. J., Shea, S.R. and Hatch, A. B. (1978). Salt content of Lateritic profiles in the Yarragil Catchment, Western Australia. Forest Department of Western Australia Research Paper. 
Peck, A. J. (1976). Estimating the effect of a land use change on stream salinity in south-western Australia. In ' System Simulation in Water Resources', pages 293-391. North Holland, Amsterdam. 
A short time ago I was speaking about industrial relations. I must admit to having some concern still about the matter that arose in the precincts of Parliament House at the beginning of this three-week sitting. I believe that it must have been known that industrial unrest was going to occur. Everyone involved in Parliament House, I believe, is quite aware that the kitchens and the dining rooms have been unionised, if that is the correct term, for quite some years. So there has to be a reason, I believe, why  Mr Aper  was engaged. The questions in my mind that still have to be answered to my satisfaction are: How many people applied for the position? How many of those applicants had qualifications or experience in that area, that is, the area of kitchen hand? How many of them were in similar family circumstances to  Mr Aper?  As  Mr President  stated this morning,  Mr Aper  had a physique which was an indication to the employing officer that he would be capable of carrying out kitchen hand duties and, in addition, he was married with a family. I believe that if those two things are the qualifications for a kitchen hand then it is likely that other members of the public who applied for that position were also of a similar physique and also could have been married with family responsibilities. The fact that they were out of work could have been a determining factor in their situation as much as it appears to have been in  Mr Aper's  situation. 
The other question that I have to ask is: Why was  Mr Aper  requested, following arbitration, to report for duty each day at 8 o'clock? It must have been obvious to anyone with any knowledge of industrial relations that that in itself was going to cause confrontation and consternation on the part of the other workers. Was he being asked deliberately to report for work at 8 a.m. and deliberately at 8 a.m. each day being told that no work was available to him? To the best of my knowledge it has never been a condition of arbitration that a person who is stood down is still required to report for work each day. The latest complaint that we heard about this morning, that he was underpaid while he was stood down, makes it obvious to me that either someone has deliberately underpaid him to cause once again that confrontation and consternation with the rest of the staff or  Mr Aper  is in a position in which, while he objects to being a member of the union, he has no compunction about collecting the money that those workers, those union payers, those union members, have fought so hard for over a long time. He wants to have his cake and he wants to eat it too but preferably he wants to eat it at home every day. As I said, there are a number of questions which I believe still require answers. With all due respect, I do not believe that  Mr President  gave them this morning. 
There are a number of other questions in my mind, not only about the responsibility of the Joint House Department to the Joint House Committee but also about the power of the Joint House Department. I had a minor altercation with the Joint House Department today. I must admit that I do not take very kindly to being told by a member of that Department that information that I asked for by a particular time will be provided to me if it is at all possible because I believe that if the information is available then of course it is possible. While the matter that I spoke about related only to the booking of the tennis courts, I still believe that when a member of parliament rings the Joint House Department or any other department connected with the running of this place and asks for information in writing to be available by a certain time, then that department has a responsibility to the member of parliament to ensure that he or she gets it. I have not as yet got it in writing and the gentleman concerned will find that I will raise this matter once again at the Joint House Committee meeting which I understand will take place in the first week that we next sit. 
I would have to admit to feeling that perhaps this Budget is the most disgraceful Budget that has ever been introduced or ever presented to a parliament of Australia; not only because of the retractions that have been made since it was introduced but also because it is the machinery by which a great number of pre-election promises that were made in 1977 and in 1975 are being totally ignored. I have already mentioned some of them. But we are now seeing that the money that was supposed to have been made available to pensioners is to be made available on a once-a-year review basis whereas the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had promised in 1975, and he repeated it in 1977, that the reviews would continue on at least a twice-year basis. 
I believe that the Budget is disgraceful because it attacks those people who are least capable, those who are already disadvantaged- the pensioners, the young families, the children, the workers, the sick and the unemployed. And let us not forget the unemployed because at a time when the Government is admitting that unemployment will increase, it has reduced the appropriation for the unemployment benefit by $6.0m. What does it intend for those people who are going to join the ranks of the unemployed? What is the Government going to pay those people who are already unemployed? Is it the intention of the Government to reduce the unemployment benefit? If not, why did it reduce this appropriation by $6.9m? More people cannot be paid with less money. If the Government does not appreciate this simple economic exercise, it should not be the Government. If the economic experts who are supposed to be running this country do not realise that they cannot deduct $6.9m from the Budget allocation for the unemployed at the same time as they maintain that they recognise that unemployment will increase they should not be advising the Government. The Government should be prepared to go to the people and say: Do you or do you not believe us?' 
I believe that the Government's credibility is in question at the moment. I believe the only reason why it has a feeling of security is purely and simply because it holds the key to the next election date. That is the only reason why it was able to bring in such a horror Budget this year. It would not have had the courage to bring in a 
Budget such as that in an election year. No matter how severe the economic circumstances, nothing will convince me that a government with any political nous at all would have introduced such a Budget in any year other than a nonelection year. But that is of no consolation to the Australian people. I do not believe that the Government can rely any more on the old idiom that the electorate has a short memory. The Australian people will well remember the night of 15 August 1 978 until the election in 1 980. 
The feeling of the Australian people was well and truly expressed at the Werriwa by-election last Saturday. It is no good the Government now saying that it is normal for the electorate to vote against the government in a by-election. It does not necessarily apply that there is a swing against the government in every by-election. In fact I got the Parliamentary Library's statistical service to take out some figures for me yesterday. These figures show that on quite a number of occasions when a by-election has been held the swing has been quite substantially in favour of the government. I will illustrate by giving just a few instances. I think it might be a little too difficult to have the document incorporated in  Hansard,  so I will content myself with talking about just a few occasions. I must admit that I asked the statistical service to go back as far as possible and it took the figures back to 195 1. 
In December 1953 in a by-election for the seat of Gwydir,- there was a 1 .54 per cent swing to the government. In December 1956 there was a 4.57 per cent swing to the government in the byelection for the seat of Wentworth. In June 1963, in a by-election for the seat of Grey, there was a swing to the government of 3.6 per cent. In February 1965, there was a swing to the government in a by-election for the seat of Riverina of 4.67 per cent. In September 1967 there was a swing of 1 .68 per cent to the government in a byelection for the seat of Capricornia. In February 1968 there was a swing of 6.13 per cent to the government in a by-election for the seat of Higgins. In May 1970 there was a swing of 1.25 per cent to the government in a by-election for the seat of the Australian Capital Territory. In March 197 1, in a by-election for the seat of Murray, there was a swing to the government of 10.57 per cent. The other interesting point that these statistics show is that on perhaps six occasions there has been a swing in excess of 1 1 .7 per cent, which I believe is the figure which has been calculated as being the swing towards the Australian Labor Party at the Werriwa byelection last Saturday. 
I do not believe that the Australian Government can take any solace from the fact that it will be two years before we have a Federal election. I am quite sure that the Government would not go to the people at this time. It would not have the courage to go to them. Its Budget has been rejected just as it is being rejected. We are seeing evidence of this every day. We saw in Kings Hall this week the disadvantaged people who had come here to organise their own protest, to tell the Government, on behalf of the rest of the people of Australia, that they were disturbed that their pensions were to be taxed. Unless this Government takes heed and unless it is prepared to act in a responsible manner, it will find itself eventually going to the people and being soundly defeated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
1 ) Has it been necessary for a charitable organisation to agree to fund a comprehensive nutritional program for Aboriginal children in New South Wales, because of reduced Government support for Aboriginal welfare programs. 
Will the Minister table the original submission by the Aboriginal Health Service. 
What amount will the Government appropriate for this program, and what amount is being donated by the Freedom from Hunger Campaign. 
I present the following petition from 105 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth, we feel very strongly that we do not want any interference from the Government in the payment to families of the family allowance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I refer to an article in the  West Australian  of 16 September relating to the possible formation of a national human rights commission. Recognising that the Minister has said, according to that newspaper report, that he has held talks with all States, will he now advise me with whom those talks were held in Western Australia, how many meetings have been held and whether the establishment of a federal human rights commission will require complementary State legislation? If so, have the terms of that complementary legislation been discussed with either the responsible Minister in Western Australia or members of his Department? Can the Attorney-General give some indication when legislation to establish a human rights commission will be introduced? 
In his speech a few minutes ago,  Senator Thomas  talked about the hypocrisies of Labor Party senators. I want to say that it is the Government which is being hypocritical. It is the Government which has broken a number of its promises- not just one- to the people of Australia. It is not the Labor Party's members. We are endeavouring to make the Government keep those promises by our total opposition to this Bill. The true situation is that the Government is causing considerable suffering to the recipients of Australian social welfare programs. I think it is also causing considerable concern to a few of its own members. Some are finding it extremely difficult to become over-enthusiastic about this Bill. Government senators are expressing this concern in a number of ways. They are expressing concern that election promise after election promise is being broken by the Government. I know there are a number and I will be incorporating in  Hansard  in a moment a statement from the editorial in the  West Australian  which also mentions the honourable member for Perth,  Mr Ross  McLean, as being opposed to this legislation. First, I would mention  Mr Goodluck,  the honourable member for Franklin, because he is perhaps the most outspoken of all Government supporters. He has already told his electors how he feels about this particular Bill, the Social Services Amendment Bill. He did so in the House of Representatives during the debate on 28 September and he repeated it again last week, reinforcing it last week. I want to quote some of his words because what he says is very important to the people of Australia- it is important to Government members in this chamber and in the other place. He said: 
. but I think that, in a situation such as this, because of our responsibility to our electorates we have to stick firmly by what we said during difficult election campaigns. 
In other words, he was saying that the Government cannot make idle promises to either gain or retain the Treasury benches. He continued: 
In 1975 we said to the pensioners that we would fight for quarterly adjustments to their pensions in line with movements in the consumer price index. Unfortunately, during 1975-76 we paid pension increases on a half yearly basis. Now, unfortunately, we have made a Cabinet decision to pay pension increases on a yearly basis ... I cannot support my Government on its decision . . . Also, there should be no means test on increases in pensions paid to pensioners who are over 70 years of age . . . When we say something to somebody during an election campaign we cannot go back on what we say . . . Many honourable members, like me, believe in the principle that if we say certain things ona platform we have to adhere to them. 
Unfortunately, there are not very many members of the Government who are prepared to admit that the pre-election promises were just a ruse to get the pensioners and the thinking people in Australia to vote for this Government- vote it back into office to retain the Treasury benches. The Government knew when it was making those promises that it would not be able to keep them. It had no right to fool the people of Australia into believing that it would. 
One has to question just how many honourable members there are in the Government. I believe  Mr Goodluck  can lay claim to that title because he sees the necessity of not just saying something to win government but that when government is secured to endeavour to make the party adhere to its pre-election promises. There are not too many members of the Government who can make that same statement. Not many voices opposite have been openly raised in opposition to this move on the part of the Government. However, I believe that comments by  Mr Goodluck  and some other Government supporters reflect the serious nature of the amendments proposed by the Social Service Amendment Bill. If the Government's own members cannot support the 1978-79 Budget measures how can the Australian electorate have faith in the Government? It seems rather incredible to me that there are not more Government supporters who are troubled by their consciences. These are people who threw themselves at the mercy of the electorate in 1 975 and again in 1 977 and who made promises. They are now quite happy to sit back in this chamber and in the other place and see those promises broken. I think that it demonstrates a complete lack of social conscience on the part of Government members and the Government itself and a complete lack of integrity. How can Government members trust their leader? How can the Australian electorate trust the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)?  How can the people trust a man who in March 1977 said: 'We are committed to take politics out of pension increases by giving automatic increases in line with price rises twice a year'? They are  Mr Fraser  's words, not mine. That is what he said on 13 March 1977. Yet today we see in this place a condemnation of the Prime Minister in this very Bill that is brought forward to deny pensioners that twiceyearly review. Instead they will have a review once a year. Although there was a commitment on the part of the Prime Minister in March 1977 to take politics out of pensions by giving a twiceyearly automatic increase in line with increases in the consumer price index and an admission on the part of some Government backbenchers that they were committed to quarterly increases in 1975, we see this Bill, before the chamber today, which proposes an increase in pensions only once a year. I would put forward the proposition that the previous twice-yearly indexation already lagged some 4 months behind the CPI and that this latest Bill will mean a lag of up to 16 months behind the increases in the consumer price index. It means that pensioners will be 16 months behind in their actual purchasing power. I place on record in this House the concern expressed by the Australian Pensioners Federation, the representative of the people who are going to be affected by this brutal and harsh legislation. Following a Press conference which was held at Parliament House on 1 1 October, this is what the Federation had to say: 
Following upon the August Budget the Australian Pensioners Federation was inundated with protests from its affiliated bodies. 
The Federation on 12 September sought an interview with the Prime Minister on twice-yearly pension indexation and other matters of concern. 
The Federation's Chief Executive Officers yesterday met the Prime Minister and advanced reasons that no sufficient cause had been shown to amend the Social Services Act to substitute a yearly pension increase in lieu of the present  legislated-for  six monthly increases. 
The Prime Minister stressed the view that the falling rate of inflation justified the change to yearly indexation. 
This is an adopted line of justification by the Government following its Budget announcement. 
This line of reasoning we reject as false. The less the rise in the CPI the smaller the pension increases. Even if the yearly rate of inflation is reduced to S per cent- and this would be welcomed by all pensioners- it would mean a single pensioner being entitled to $ 1 .35, and a married couple $2.20. 
To me the next statement is the most important one, because the Federation said: 
To be deprived of a justified increase for one year means justice delayed is justice denied. 
Honourable senators on the Government benches might care to think over that statement made by the Australian Pensioners Federation. In the rather vain hope that it might inspire a few of the Government members in this House, I quote from an editorial in the  West Australian  last week. Honourable senators will be aware that I do not very often find cause for compliments to be handed out to the Press, particularly the conservative Press in Western Australia. I am much more likely to criticise it. There are very few occasions when it and I agree on any point. So perhaps it is appropriate that I take this opportunity to commend the  West Australian  on its editorial and to express my personal wish that Government members will find it commendable too. This is from the leading article in the  West Australian,  Perth, Saturday, 14 October under the heading 'Pension justice': 
The Federal Government continues to reap a harvest of ill-will and political embarrassment from the seeds of moral insensibility in its Budget. 
And deservedly so. The most unwholesome feature of the Budget was the way in which social justice was jettisoned for the sake of a cold exercise in accountancy. That was evident in the since-abandoned move to trim family allowances. 
We all know what happened with the scheme to trim family allowances, as it is delicately put here. The leading article goes on to say: 
Now the focus shifts to an even more niggardly and less justifiable proposition- a switch from twice-yearly to onceayear indexation of pensions. This renunciation of yet another election pledge . . . 
I remind honourable senators that this is one of the most conservative newspapers in Australia making the very valid point that this is yet another election pledge being broken by the Government. It continues: 
. (plus the erosion of a commitment to ease the means test on pensions) has brought a heartening backlash from the government back-bench, and it is good to see the MHR for Penh,  Mr Ross  McLean, in the forefront of the critics. 
The Government's attempt to justify the change took up only one sentence in the Treasurer's Budget speech: 'This decision has been taken in the light of the significant reduction in inflation which this Government has achieved since its return to office'. The argument could be applied with equal force in reverse: Reduced inflation should make it easier for the Government to preserve the spending power of pensioners. 
Even with twice-yearly indexation, pensions have lagged behind price movements. For instance, the pensions rise due next month is related to price movements between last December and June. If the Government has its miserable way- to save $26 million this financial year- pensioners will not get another rise till November 1979, and then it will only be responding to price movements in the 12 months to June next year. Thus it will take 1 6 months for price movements last July to be reflected in pensions. 
While the incomes of the rest of the community will be indexed twice a year, pensioners- the people least able to cope- will get an increase only once, with an indefensible time lag built in at that. Does the Government believe that pensioners are immune from the impact of its Budget imposts? 
Two years ago the Senate championed the cause of pensioners when six government members crossed the floor to oppose abolition of funeral benefits. On that occasion a chastened  Mr Fraser  said that the Government had a lesson to learn without rancour. 
The lesson has not been learnt. Once again it is up to the Senate to drive it home, and for  Mr Fraser  to accept it without rancour. 
I remind honourable senators that this is the leading article from the  West Australian  in Penh on Saturday, 14 October. It has attracted a considerable amount of correspondence from a number of people in the community. It is most unusual to get Wednesday's edition of the newspaper on Wednesday in our offices, but today we have it. In today's edition there is a letter from  Mr  Alliston  who is the Secretary of the Pensioners ' Action Group in Perth. He said: 
We consider that all pensioners, particularly the over 70s (and many of our members are in this age group), will appreciate your stand in your editorial 'Pension justice' (October 14). 
This latest niggardly treatment comes on top of all the other effects of inflation, such as the WA taxes and chargeswater, electricity and gas. 
There is no end to it and our income is further reduced by this niggardly Federal treatment. 
I think that is putting it in a nutshell. It is niggardly treatment. 
I am referring to the whole situation as far as pensions are concerned. I am devoting myself specifically to the decision, on the pan of the Government that there will be only once-a-year indexation of pensions. 
I do not need  Senator Walters  to tell me what our platform is relating to pensions or anything else. I am here to tell the Senate what I think about this particular Bill. 
I will just touch on what  Senator Walters  had to say tonight. She said that the Government had introduced the lone father's pension. Let me just remind  Senator Walters  that, although she is claiming for the government credit for having introduced what she must have considered to be a rather sensational move, the Government of which she is a supporter had already committed itself to its introduction in a pre-election promise in 1975 but did not even put it into operation until November 1977 when it was time for it to go back to the people of Australia and justify that pre-election promise.  Senator Walters  should not sit there and give me all this codswallop about what the Government has been able to do because it has done very little except in areas where it has benefited. The Government made pre-election promise after pre-election promise and is breaking them all. The Government is breaking about six election promises in this Bill.  Senator Walters  tries to justify that to the electors in her State. Possibly she feels secure in this justification because she now has a sixyear term to serve as a representative of her State. But other members of her Party are concerned about more than sitting in the Senate for six years. They are concerned enough to stand up in the Senate and in the other House and say that they will not vote for this Bill because they do not see that justice is being done for the people who are least able to alford these sacrifices. 
I want to touch on a couple of other points in relation to this Bill.  Senator Walters  has already spoken in the debate and I am not going to give her the chance to take away any more of my time. I do not believe that time will permit me to cover all the areas I would like to cover; nor will it permit me to cover them in the depth in which I would like to apply myself to them. 
In the first instance, I want to speak about the injustice of abolishing the maternity allowance. It may seem to a lot of people that a fairly paltry sum is involved; but let me assure you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that there are any number of mothers in the community who find it a most welcome relief to be able to afford a few essentials- not luxuries- that are always associated with the birth of a child. I have always been against the way in which the allowance has been applied in the event of multiple births. I have said so in this place and in other public forums many dmes. I do not believe that any child should be discriminated against. If it happened to be twins, triplets of quintuplets that the mother gave birth to, each of those children should have been regarded as an individual child for the purpose of the maternity allowance. Nevertheless, even though I felt that those benefits should have been the same and they were not, I was prepared to accept that a benefit was paid. 
This Bill is disallowing the maternity allowance altogether. It is taking away from peopleonce again, many people who can ill afford it- the right to receive that maternity allowance. Perhaps it escaped the attention of the Government when it was framing this legislation- I remind honourable members opposite of this fact now- that it will become operative in November of this year, and 1979 just happens to be the International Year of the Child. For a whole year governments throughout the world will be endeavouring to enhance the lives of children. What do we find here in Australia? We find the Government taking away a few paltry dollars when a mother has a child. 
In my State of Western Australia, we have our 150th birthday celebrations in 1979. It will be an extra special celebration because it will also be the International Year of the Child. In fact, it is the intention of the group which is organising WA '79', as it is known, to issue a special birth certificate to every child who is born in 1979. I personally do not agree with the idea. I think that it discriminates against the children who are born in late 1978 or early 1980. But I am quite sure that, given the opportunity to choose the majority of mothers to be in that State, and in every other State and the two Territories, would prefer to receive a maternity allowance than to receive a special birth certificate signifying the birth of their child in that year. Once again, we see another callous decision making inroads into the lifestyles of people throughout the country. 
The changes to family allowances will make an enormous difference to a large number of people throughout Australia because they have to budget from week to week. They do not budget on a calendar month basis or even on a four-week basis. One question arises in my mind on this matter: On my calculations, the change in the method of payment of family allowances from a four-weekly basis to a monthly basis will mean that parents with four children will receive $32 less in a full year. The Minister for Social Security may care to consult her advisers and substantiate or refute that claim when she replies to the debate on the Bill. Recipients under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme and recipients of adult secondary education allowances will be precluded from receiving family allowances. We are told that the amount involved will be made up in other areas. Let me assure honourable senators that it is not. 
A person receiving a family allowance and a supporting mother's benefit also receives additional benefits which are not available to that person if he or she happens to be a single parent in receipt of a TEAS allowance. For instance, such a person would have pharmaceutical benefits taken away. I am sure that members of the Government parties as well as members of the Opposition have received letters from parents who are endeavouring to further their education under TEAS or under the adult secondary education allowances scheme. Many of them are expressing their concern that they are losing special benefit entitlements. This Bill further disadvantages those people. 
Perhaps the most important aspect of this Bill is that it does absolutely nothing for the unemployed person. It does not give unemployed people one skerrick of hope for the future. It does not give them a hope of being able to live with any dignity. The Government has acknowledged that there will be an increase in unemployment this year amounting to some thousands of people. Yet it has taken an amount of $6. 9m out of the Budget. One wonders how on earth the 
Government will achieve its aims. If there is to be a dramatic increase in the number of people who are receiving unemployment benefits, these people have to be supported in some way. The freezing of the unemployment benefit payment will not achieve that. I think that probably it is the most ruthless and callous decision that has been made. I think that it is equally ruthless and callous to say that there will be no increased payment for unemployed people this year. It must be most disheartening for an unemployed person to know that the unemployment benefit levels will remain as they are. Yet  Mr Fraser  has acknowledged that unemployment is a cruel experience. In fact, on 1 7 July last year he said: 
Unemployment is a dispiriting experience that not only undermines self respect but creates social problems. Its effects are not just confined to the person unemployed, but they are felt throughout the whole structure of family life. 
They are the words of the Prime Minister just 15 months ago. Perhaps one could be excused for believing that a person who could make such a statement would be aware of the utter devastation and despair that is being felt by hundreds of thousands of Australian people who happen to be unemployed. Once again,  Mr Fraser  was mouthing platitudes. Obviously,  Mr Fraser  finds it very easy to mouth platitudes, because he seems to do this fairly consistently. He does not have any feeling for the unemployed. He probably has never experienced unemployment. I would say that that is perhaps not an unusual circumstance in this place or even in the other chamber. 
But some of us in this chamber have experienced unemployment. Some of us know what it is like. Some of us can put ourselves in the place of people who are unemployed. Some of us know the way these people feel when they are being rejected for prospective job after prospective job. We know how these people feel when they know that for every job they apply for there will be another 20-odd people applying. Some of us know what it is like for people to trudge the streets looking for work- not necessarily work for which they have been trained, but any type of work that will allow them to live with dignity and not have it constantly put to them that we are becoming a welfare state, that they are welfare minded or that they are dole bludgers. I do not believe that we have a very great proportion of the unemployed in our community who we can honestly say are dole bludgers. 
I believe that employment enables people to retain some dignity. It may not be highly paid employment, but at least it enables people to retain some dignity. It enables people to provide for their needs and for the needs of those people who are dependent upon them. In this Bill, we see a total freeze placed on unemployment benefits. Seventy-five per cent of the people who are unemployed are single, and these are the people who will be hit worst. Unemployment is the worst problem that Australia and a number of other countries face today. As the Prime Minister has said, unemployment creates many social problems. We are aggravating those social problems. It is impossible to gauge the effects of unemployment at this point in time; but we are, in effect aggravating those problems because we are doing nothing to create employment. Now the Government is freezing unemployment benefits. I believe that unemployment will be with us for a long time. It will take many years after a Labor Government is returned in 1980 to undo the mess that has been created since 1975 under this conservative Government. 
This Bill represents a brutal assault on something like two million Australian men, women and children who are dependent in some way on social services; two million people whose standard of living lies in the calloused hands of this Government- hands that have become calloused because the Government has spent the last 34 months wiping its hands of every pre-election promise it made. The Opposition has outlined only some of the broken promises of the Fraser Government. We could stand here until next Tuesday fortnight and still not be able to cover all of them. We have touched just the tip of the iceberg. However, there will be many opportunities for honourable senators to remind the people of Australia that this Government cannot be trusted prior to an election or whilst it is in office. I want briefly to repeat what was said in the editorial in the  West Australian  last Saturday. It read: 
Two years ago the Senate championed the cause of pensioners when six government members crossed the floor to oppose abolition of funeral benefits. On that occasion a chastened  Mr Fraser  said that the Government had a lesson to learn without rancour. 
The lesson has not been learnt. Once again it is up to the Senate to drive it home, and for  Mr Fraser  to accept it without rancour. 
I sincerely trust that there are sufficient Government senators to do just that- to drive it homeand that the Prime Minister will accept it without rancour. In the meantime, I oppose the Bill. 
There are three Bills before the Committee. Is it the wish of the Committee to deal with each separately? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
Order! It being 1 1 p.m., under sessional order I put the question: 'That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate '. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Consideration resumed. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. I am seeking information about the new meteorological station at Learmonth in Western Australia, which I understand will be opened very shortly. I would like the Minister to indicate whether technical staff will be employed on site or whether the staff at Perth will be responsible for maintenance of the station. I am given to understand that one of the most important functions of the station is to be the monitoring and tracking of cyclones. If the staff at Perth is to be responsible for the maintenance of the station, will the Minister advise how that is to be achieved when at the very time that the services of that station are most required it may not be possible for Perth staff or Port Hedland staff to fly in to Learmonth? Is it not true that there are 12 technical positions in Perth and that, because of the staff ceilings restraints placed on his Department by the Government, only 10 of those positions are filled and, further, that each of those 1 0 people has already spent an average of 50 days this year away from the Perth office? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General in his capacity either as Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources or as Minister representing the Minister for Special Trade Representations. I am endeavouring to get some information in relation to the world wine exposition which I understand is to be held in Singapore in May of next year. I have received a number of complaints relating to the Australian Wine Board's activities in this area in that it is proposing to wine producers that they should not participate in the exposition on the grounds that accommodation is not available, the sites are not up to standard, et cetera. I have received a further complaint that the Australian Trade Commissioner who is based in Singapore is reported to have said in public- I quote the words that were expressed to me: There is something wrong with the contract'. 
In view of the comment by the Minister for Primary Industry when he launched the world wine exposition that the exposition that is to be held in Singapore in 1979 deserves our commendation and in fact has been given our sponsorship, I ask: Has the Government checked the contract relating to the world wine exposition which is to be held in Singapore? If not, will it now do so? Providing that the contract is found to be in order, will the Minister make some public statement to the effect that it is in order in an endeavour to assuage the fears of Australian wine producers and perhaps encourage them to participate in a project which may assist in a substantial recovery of the Australian wine industry? 
We have listened today to what has become, I believe unfortunately, a highly emotive debate. The motion we are debating was not designed that way. It was designed as a means of putting before this chamber the recommendations of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, the properly elected body representing the Australian Capital Territory. The recommendations had gone before the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  after he had promised that he would uphold the decision of the Assembly. That promise was broken. I want to make it clear from the outset that I am supporting  Senator Ryan's  motion. I do so for a number of reasons. As I said, I think it is unfortunate that the debate has become so emotive. I do not object, quite frankly, to being in receipt of only some 200 letters. I must be the last person on the mailing list.  Senator Chipp  informed us that he received 6,500. 1 think  Senator Missen  laid claim to some 2,000. 
-Only seven of the letters I received out of a total of just less than 200 will receive a reply because only 7 letters were devoted to thought and conscience. I received a number of roneoed letters from people who, obviously, simply had been asked to sign them. Some people, I would think, were not even aware of what they were signing. I think that that is sad. It is a sad reflection on the campaign that has been launched. I think it is sad that all of the letters refer to the establishment of private abortion clinics. This is not the central issue of the motion. 
I did not get any of those either. The central issue is whether or not the duly elected representatives of the people of the Capital Territory have the right to bring down a report that should be accepted by the Minister. That is the issue. Only seven letters out of the total of less than 200 devoted themselves to it. I will reply to those letters because their authors gave a lot of thought and paid a lot of attention to the arguments that they were putting before me. None, I might add, agreed with my sentiments, but they still warrant a reply. 
I also take this opportunity to assure the other people who wrote to me that with one minor qualification, I am not in favour of private abortion clinics. That qualification is that a private abortion clinic, to my mind, is infinitely preferable to what is operating in the Capital Territory at the moment. At the moment the Australian Capital Territory still has backyard abortionists, as has every State. The backyard abortionists are being supported purely and simply because no publicly recognised government sponsored abortion clinic is operating. 
I have been contacted by two people who have offered to take me to two houses where backyard abortions are conducted. I have to take their word for it that they are prepared to disclose the operators to me. These people openly admit, incidentally, utilising the services. I have been told that there are three more operators, making a total of at least five. 
All in the Australian Capital Territory. 
At this point I have not availed myself of the opportunity. I have no wish to support backyard abortionists. At the same time I do not think it is my responsibility to inform the relevant authorities. I think that the people themselves may be encouraged to do just that. I hope they are. I have no time for backyard abortionists. As I said, I am not in favour of private abortion clinics, but they are infinitely preferable to what is already happening in the Territory. If we close our eyes to the fact that backyard abortionists are operating here we are deluding ourselves. We are deluding ourselves that this is anything other than a straight-out motion asking honourable senators: Do you or do you not want an abortion Bill in the Australian Capital Territory? That is what this is all about. I think it is a pity, as  Senator Missen  said earlier, that the Senate has been placed in this position. 
I must admit that  Senator Walters  confused me dreadfully by her specious'argument this afternoon about the Year of the Child and how honourable senators would start that important year by murdering children. Let me remind the honourable senator of what she had to say about foetuses on 25 October 1978. The honourable senator showed no concern for foetuses then. The honourable senator said in effect that we should not be worrying about ultra-sound scans as they were too expensive although they may in actual fact determine whether something is wrong with a foetus that is about to become a child. The honourable senator should establish her position one way or the other. Is she concerned only about the health of the foetus or about something else? In case the honourable senator is planning on making a personal explanation I will read her remarks into the  Hansard  record. I refer to page 1613 of the Senate  Hansard  of 25 October 1978 where  Senator Walters  said, when debating health insurance legislation - 
I am talking about the foetus. The honourable senator may not be aware but a foetus is an unborn child. 
-The honourable senator is aware of that. We have determined already that this is a debate on abortion.  Senator Walters  said: 
Let me instance what can happen. It can be justifiably said - 
-The honourable senator was debating health insurance legislation and referring to health costs. She said: 
It can be justifiably said that every woman who is having a baby should have an ultra-sound scan. The equipment is known as a real time scanner. The service is not always necessary. The majority of women have perfectly normal births and the scans are not a necessary part of treatment in a normal pregnancy. If these scans are given to every woman in Australia who is having a baby costs will increase considerably. The scanners would be in every obstetrician 's surgery. Doctors, admittedly, would be able to make a great deal more money. If the community desired such a service for normal pregnancies, the doctors could justify it by saying that  they iust  might pick up something which is abnormal. 
After all, the scanners can establish more accurately the date of the expected birth of the baby and whether the growth of the baby is normal and is going according to schedule. It could also establish the placement of the placenta. These scans are necessary if something is going wrong or if the doctor suspects that something is going wrong. In a normal pregnancy there is no need for this particular service. It could be argued that one scan in many thousands could pick up something that the doctor had not suspected. 
I would interpret from that that  Senator Walters  is against women having automatic ultra-sound scans, because she explained later just how expensive it is going to be. But now she is expressing her concern for the unborn child. As I said, she confuses me greatly. One can regard this whole matter only as a campaign. Never before on a non-broadcast day have we seen so many people in the public galleries. Never before have we seen so many people from the other chamber come to hear the debates in this place. 
-Even the President's Gallery is full at the moment and  Senator Walters  must admit that right through the debate since it started at roughly 12 o'clock there has been an interchanging of visitors to the public galleries. 
-Possibly not, but that is their loss. I can presume only that they are illinformed and want to remain that way. This legislation and the whole issue that we are talking about do not mean that we are insisting that all women have to have an abortion. We are simply saying that if a woman needs an abortion the facility should be there. I stress to those people who write to me under a number of different titles that I am not suggesting that they may want an abortion or may care to have an abortion. I am simply saying that even their daughter may need an abortion. She may need it for a number of reasons. We can see the shaking of heads and all that sort of thing. These people believe they set the standards for all people. They do not set the standards for all people. They establish certain moral standards in their own homes. But there is no way that these people can say in all honesty and sincerity- I believe that the majority of these people are sincerethat the standards they have established for their children will prevail once those children get out from under the influence of the family. 
I stressed earlier the word 'need'. There are a number of reasons that people may need an abortion. Sometimes those reasons are medical, sometimes they are financial and sometimes they are purely emotional. Sometimes the reasons are purely and simply that women recognise that they cannot give the necessary emotional support either to a child or to another child in their family. Sometimes they are concerned that they do not have enough love to give to their children. Sometimes they already have too many children. Some women are so emotionally drained that they know that they cannot cater for the needs of a child. I think that some honourable senators and even some people in the gallery may be interested in a paper on abortion entitled Abortion: a perspective' in a book entitled  lt 

 Isn't Nice by Bertram Wainer published in 1972. On page 45 it says: 
I was surprised and encouraged to see that the late  Senator Robert  F. Kennedy, a Roman Catholic, had come forward for abortion law reform, putting the welfare of his electorate above his Church 's edict. 
I think the important issue is to put the welfare of the people in the electorates of the Australian Capital Territory before thinking about whether we should be listening to the right to life group, to the pro-abortionists or to the anti-abortionists, or whether we should be taking notice of people who have some qualifications in this area. I am sure that we have all received letters from the family guidance people and from even the Catholic Church guidance people. We have also had letters from the family planning associations, which would probably be in more contact with people in need of an abortion, counselling or something in that area than the majority of the people in the right to life movement. 
I have wrestled with my conscience. I did not stand up here lightly today to say that I intend to vote in support of  Senator Ryan's  motion. I did it on the basis that many years ago I recognised notonly that women have a right to determine what they should do with their bodies but also that there was a consideration for the unborn child to be taken into account. To me the most important consideration is whether a woman feels that she can have a child and give it the love, the affection and the financial assistance that it is going to need- the emotional support service right through its life. If the woman determines that this is not the way she feels, she has every right to be able to go to a publicly recognised and well administered place where she can have an abortion without tremendous and exorbitant costs. I want to quote very briefly from what  Senator Ryan  had to say when she spoke to her motion on 1 1 October. She said: 
I ask the Senate for support of my motion. I hope that all senators will agree with me that the principal at issue is the right of all Australian citizens to democratic government and that a Minister who has given publicly an undertaking in the way that the Minister for Health has done should keep that undertaking. 
That to me is the central issue. 
I want to speak very briefly about the report by the Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce and to raise a number of issues which were brought out in the Committee's inquiry and which caused me some concern. In the first place, it is the habit, one understands, of the Department of Trade and Resources to issue a publication which is called the  Australian Trading News.  It is, perhaps, one of the most uninteresting publications I have ever had the misfortune to come across. There is nothing in it which would inspire me to give consideration to any of the products that are being advertised. It is not presented in a manner that would create any interest in not only the products but also the country in which those products are produced or from which they are exported. The Committee's recommendation that the  Australian Trading News  be updated, upgraded and perhaps published more frequently in full colour with improved content and format is one of the things that should be looked at in the first place. 
A second consideration that came out in the report is that personnel for the Australian overseas trading posts were not always gathered from the areas that had more expertise. We were presented with the information, which certainly to my mind was of great importance, that we should be looking more to industry to provide trade commissioners in posts in a heavy export area or where there is a potential for an export area. Someone who has had some experience in industry would be much better able to promote Australian products, to publicise what is available from Australian industries and would perhaps have a greater interest in the promotion of Australia than a person who has come up through the Public Service and who is basically there more to present and administer policies rather than to promote individual products. 
A third consideration was the trade fairs and displays which we have also mentioned in the report. This matter is of great concern to me. Honourable senators will be aware that the week before last I raised in the Senate the question of a trade commissioner in Singapore who is reported to be working against a promotion of Australian wines to be held in May 1979. 1 have not as yet had a reply from the responsible Minister as to whether the statements which are attributed to that trade commissioner are a fact, a deliberate attempt on someone's part to denigrate the Trade Commissioner Service in that country or a deliberate attempt by the trade commissioner concerned to denigrate an exposition which could provide tremendous export potential for what could be a vital Australian export product. So a number of areas were taken into consideration. I suggest not only that the report should be read with great interest by all members of this chamber but also that the Government should take seriously the efforts that were put into producing it and take action on the same in the near future. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Georges)  adjourned. 
-Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that in the opinion  of his  Department the Australian Antarctic territory is not regarded as part of Australia for the purposes of the Marriage Act 1961. Will the Minister now advise the Senate whether it is his intention to introduce legislation to amend the Marriage Act to enable people either on or above the Antarctic to participate in what can be regarded as legal mar riage services? 
I present the following petition from 5 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That recipients of Supporting Parents Benefit are discriminated against compared to widows and divorcees who have the care of dependent children. 
The main area for concern is their ineligibility for issue of the Pensioners Health Benefit Card. This card enables recipients and their children to receive free medical care, pharmaceutical benefits and optometrical benefits which are a vital necessity to the well-being of these families. The lack of this entitlement can cause extreme financial hardship and suffering from lack of necessary treatment and medication. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that in this International Year of the Child all Australian children be considered an equal part of this country's wealth and that the Health Act be amended so that Pensioners Health Benefit Cards can be issued to those receiving Supporting Parents Benefit. We believe this to be an essential step to ensuring that all children in this country achieve their potential stature as human beings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Senate is debating an urgency motion moved by my colleague, the shadow Minister for Social Security,  Senator Grimes,  on the matter of twice yearly pension indexation. I want to say a number of things about  Senator Messner  who has just sat down. I can remember debating the Social Services Amendment Bill in October of last year when I mentioned that the majority of people, and particularly those on low incomes, measured the inflation rate in the market place, that is in the supermarket, in the butcher shop, when the telephone bill came in- if they were lucky enough to be able to afford a telephone- when the electricity bill arrived and on all those occasions when it was necessary to suddenly spend some money out of a restricted budget. At that time  Senator Messner  interjected on my speech and said that that was a lot of rubbish. He said that we do not measure the inflation rate in the supermarket. I assure the honourable senator that hundreds of thousands of people on low incomes- that is those on pensions and in receipt of government benefits- do measure the inflation rate when they go to buy tea, coffee, a loaf of bread or a pound of butter. These are the essential things. With the Government's proud boast of the reduction in the inflation rate we have not seen a decrease in the prices of goods to the consumers. In fact we have seen a very large increase in the profits being made by a very few people. 
We are talking about a decrease in the cost of living to go along with the decrease in the inflation rate. The Government is bragging at all times that it is bringing down the inflation rate. It is not bringing down the cost of living.  Mr President,  I draw your attention to the fact that I am addressing my remarks in this portion of the debate to the subject matter under discussion. I am talking about people on low incomes. I am talking about people who have not seen a reduction in any one item on the supermarket shelves. 
We are seeing an increase in the profits being made by a few people. That is where the majority of people measure the inflation rate. That is where they have to measure their incomes and where they have to pay out their money. It is just not good enough. 

 - Senator Walters mentions the price of eggs. I remind the honourable senator of her speech on the Social Service Amendment Bill last year when she suddenly became very conscious of the increase in the price of a loaf of bread. Obviously she is no longer concerned with the increases in the price of bread or the cost of the provision of electricity or essential services. She is not concerned that many people in our community are on such a strict budget that they have to limit the number of letters that they write. People have to limit the number of bus trips they make because not all pensioners in all States are lucky enough to be provided with free travel. A lot of people rely on  Senator Walters,  as they rely on me, in this place to put forward their case. Frankly, I do not think she is doing a very good job of it. 
Some very important statistics come out from time to time and they raise questions in my mind, perhaps because I am conscious of the needs of people. I do not believe that this Government is conscious of those needs. I was very concerned when I read in this week's newspaper that Australia has one of the highest suicide rates in the world. One has to ask: From which group of people in our community do those in the high suicide rate come? Are these people low income earners, pensioners, rich people or poor people? Are they people who do not have adequate housing or are they people who have too many responsibilities and the Government is not recognising their needs? What sort of people are they, and are they people who have a need for governments to care for them? Is the situation that this Government is so preoccupied with the needs of this disastrous economic situation and with bringing down the inflation rate that it no longer cares for people? If that is the situation then it is time this Government stood up and was counted, as Government senators in this place should stand up and be counted. It may be interesting to know that the suicide rate in Australia is higher than it is in the United Kingdom, Japan, New Zealand, Canada and other comparable western nations. In fact, until recently the suicide rate in Australia was even higher than that in the United States. 
I am suggesting nothing. I am posing the question one has to ask: From which group of people in the community do these people who commit or attempt to commit suicide come? If they are people on low incomes then one has to look at the needs of the low income people. 
I do not have the capacity for research because the Government has limited the number of people I can employ and how much research my office can cope with. The Government does not provide me with adequate facilities, with room or with staff to conduct all the research that I would like to conduct. Nor does it provide the Opposition with enough staff. Very many children are involved when we are talking about low income earners. When we are talking about pensioners' benefits we are also talking about children. These are children of parents who are in receipt of unemployment benefits or who are in receipt of benefits of some sort from this Government. I remind all honourable senators that this is the Year of the Child and there are many children in Australia who are hungry, who do not have adequate housing and who do not even have adequate clothing.  Senator Walters  may smile. I hope that people listening to this broadcast are aware that she is smiling because I do not believe that her attitude is one which expresses the concern that should be felt by a person who has been elected to this place to cater for the needs of the people of Australia. 
-No, it is not unfair. If the Minister would look behind him he would see that  Senator Walters  is thoroughly enjoying herself, and I do not believe that the subject under debate at this time is a matter for hilarity. 
-As I have already explained, the Government is a little bit mean, not only in relation to the recipients of benefits but also in relation to members of parliament. I am simply saying that in this International Year of the Child there are in Australia many children who are hungry and who are not being housed or clothed properly because their parents happen to be in receipt of pensioner benefits from this Government. We have seen a dramatic increase in the cost of living over the last two to three years. We have seen a gradual reduction in benefits payable, and we have seen that people can no longer afford to provide their families with the positive things that they need. When I say 'positive things' I include housing, food and clothing. 

 Senator Messner said that age pensioners had had their benefits increased at a rate faster than that of inflation. That is a big deal, and I am sure that the pensioners will appreciate  Senator Messner's  contribution to this debate. I did not, because I did not think he made a contribution at all. I think that his arguments were spurious. The arguments that he raised were less factual than those that should have been raised in this place and in a debate such as this. I believe that the present Government does have a responsibility to stand up to the pre-election promise that it made in 1975, namely, that it would maintain twice-yearly indexation of pensions. That promise was repeated in 1977, and it was one of the first of the promises to be broken by the Liberal and National Country Party Government after it was elected. 
Honourable Senators opposite may not agree with all of the comments that I have made. That is their prerogative. I do not believe all of the remarks that they have made, and I certainly do not agree with them. Nevertheless, the fact of the matter is that we have a great many pensioners in the community who rely on us as their elected representatives to look after their needs, and this Government is not catering for the needs of people. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Which States have accepted the Federal Government's offer of a dollar for dollar arrangement up to $4,000 as seeding grants for the International Year of the Child? 
-by leave- The matter I wish to draw to the attention of the Senate is of great importance to the Parliament and its committees. It concerns reporting by the Press of proceedings of parliamentary committees. On Thursday 8 February the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act held public hearings in Canberra, the principal witness appearing before it being the Department of the Attorney-General. On the following day, 9 February, when the Committee was also meeting in Canberra, a number of newspaper reports of the proceedings of the previous day were brought to the Committee's attention. These articles, instead of reporting what actually had been said to the Committee, under sensationalised headlines such as 'Maintenance for Women Must go', selected complaints made by members of the public to the Attorney-General and then represented them as being endorsed by the Department. This, of course, was not the case; nevertheless the  Daily Telegraph,  the  Australian,  the  Sydney Morning Herald  and other newspapers elsewhere in Australia created a dangerously false impression ' of the Department's submission. Those reports were in fact blamed for an event in Melbourne whereby a group called the Women's Revolutionary Guerilla Army threw a brick through the Attorney-General's office window. It may well have been more serious. Each newspaper contained a statement that the Committee's deliberations would be over 3 years. 
With the concurrence of the Committee the  Chairman, Mr Ruddock,  wrote to the editors of the  Australian, Sydney Morning Herald  and the  Daily Telegraph  saying that the Committee was concerned to ensure that the public obtain a balanced view of the evidence being taken by the Family Law Act Committee, and offered its cooperation in ensuring that this was possible. It was not until the weekend that the attention of the  Chairman  was drawn to an editorial that appeared in the Sydney  Daily Mirror  of Friday 9 February which stated: 
The number and type of complaints to the Federal Attorney-General's Department about the Family Law Act are only a shadow of the real extent of public disquiet about this controversial law. 
Women in particular are concerned because they feelwith justification- that the Act takes away any protection they may have had under the old divorce laws. 
Indeed it often seems that the only ones to benefit from the Act are people who change partners like ordinary people change their underwear. 
The Act has now been in force for three years and the thought that it will take another three years to examine its impact on the community is a little disturbing. 
The Federal Government seems to be bent on establishing records for the speed with which it pushes through legislation. 
But it would do well to speed up its review of the Act by the Federal Attorney-General 's Department and repeal the Family Law Act if it has, in fact, been a flop.  1 do not wish to detain the Senate for any length of time. I think that senators will recognise the inaccuracies of fact and the unfounded and sweeping assertions made about the Act contained in that editorial. The  Chairman  wrote to the editor of the  Mirror  on 12 February informing him that the inquiry was being conducted by a select committee of the Parliament and that its resolution of appointment requires it to report by 3 1 December this year.  Mr Ruddock  concluded by requesting him to publish a correction. To the best of our knowledge, this has not yet been done. Unfortunately the impression has been created in the mind of the public that this Committee will take three years to report to the Parliament. This, in turn, has caused great concern and distress. This misapprehension is most unfortunate and must be corrected. To date, none of the newspapers which so reported appears to have seen fit to correct it. 
The task which the Joint Select Committee is appointed to perform is of very great importance. The provisions and operations of the Family Law Act affect many thousands of Australians in an extremely sensitive area of their lives. In appointing the Committee, Parliament has established a public forum to enable those people with views about the Act and its operation to express those views. It is the Committee's intention to ensure that the entire range of those views can be expressed in the course of the inquiry. It is vital that the media, in reporting public hearings, co-operate with the Committee to ensure that what is conveyed to the public is a balanced view of the evidence given and of different attitudes concerning the Act. The Press can play a constructive role by providing the public with accurate information and fair reports or it can trivialise and sensationalise the issues. 
I consider this to be an issue of very great importance to this House and to the effectiveness of all committees. Unless reporting of proceedings is fair and accurate the efforts of a committee such as the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act to inform the public and facilitate intelligent debate on family law will be frustrated. The Committee intends to take up the matter with the Australian Press Council but I raise it in this place at this time because it seems to me to be a matter of concern to the Parliament as a whole. I make this statement as  Deputy Chairman  of the Joint Select Committee on the Family Law Act. The  Chairman, Mr Philip  Ruddock, has this day made an identical statement in the other place. In conclusion, both in my capacity as  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee and as a member of this House I express my concern that such reports have been made, particularly as no member of the Press was present at any of the hearings. 
-by leave- I join with previous speakers in making a few remarks about Eric Bessell. I was  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade when Eric became a member of this Parliament and that Committee. I think we would all agree that party politics do not interfere with the workings of Senate standing and select committees. We find all too often that in our desire to bring down a comprehensive report to the Parliament and to ensure that we are taking into consideration the matters under review we are generally on the same side of the fence while not on the same side of politics. I think I speak for all members of that Committee when I say that Eric Bessell was a courteous man. He was diligent in his application to the job in hand. Most of all, on that Committee, he became a friend to most of us. That is the way I would like to remember him. 
I present the following petition from 473 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 -Mr President, I regret that on your first day back I have to address a question to you as Presiding Officer. It relates to the security of Parliament House and in particular to the area at the rear and across the road that has been in the past marked 'public conveniences'. I ask: Are you aware that any person locating and entering those public conveniences is now being questioned by a Commonwealth policeman, required to identify himself and required to have his car registration recorded? Are you also aware that concern is being expressed by Commonwealth car drivers because a Commonwealth policeman has inspected a car parked outside the Senate transport office and that even the contents of its glove box were examined without the express permission of the driver concerned? Could you advise the Senate whether, in actual fact, an extension of the powers of the Commonwealth Police has been agreed to by both yourself and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, or whether either of you was consulted about this; also, whether you would consider keeping the Senate informed of any further proposed incursions on the privacy of individuals who may, quite inadvertently, find themselves under the general umbrella of Parliament House security? 
I present the following petition from 588 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned electors respectfully showeth: 
That Compensation benefits payable to injured Australian Government employees and Defence Forces personnel under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act 1971 should be increased as a matter of urgency in view of the financial plight of recipients, particularly those suffering long term incapacity and because of the significant increase in the cost of living which has occurred since compensation payments were last adjusted; and 
That statutory provision should be made for the automatic adjustment of compensation benefits. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Order! It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly- 

My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Which of the countries to which Australia exports or intends to export uranium yellow cake have light water pressure reactors similar to the reactor at Harrisburg? 
I make no apology for delaying the Senate tonight. I do so to correct one of the most outrageous statements made by a supposedly responsible Minister of the Government during the adjournment debate last night. I will quote from  Hansard  so that there can be no mistake that in actual fact the words that I refer to were used by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  in reply to a speech by  Senator Keeffe  about the problems that were being recognised in the nuclear industry.  Senator Webster,  at page 1258 of the Senate  Hansard  of 3 April 1979, said: 
The nuclear industry has been a most responsible industry. There has been no loss of life in that industry although that could occur at any time. 
In reply to an interjection by  Senator Georges, Senator Webster  repeated: 
There has been no loss of life. 
That statement is very similar to one made by the Premier of Western Australia. He also claimed that there have been no deaths in the nuclear industry. In fact not so long ago he went so far as to say that there have been no accidents in the nuclear industry. I call him a rather remarkable man, not because he does, or has done, anything remarkable but because he has managed to achieve the highest possible political position in a State without ever having been prepared to listen to or acknowledge that there are opposing points of view to his own. 

 Sir Charles Court is very keen to get a nuclear energy station underway in Western Australia. In fact the newspapers pointed out this week that it is likely that the plans for the station could be completed by the mid-1980s and that the plant could be in operation by the mid-1990s.  His  comments, in the light of the Harrisburg incident, are reported in a front page article in the  West Australian  of Tuesday 3 April. He said: 
Nuclear power stations have in fact posed less dangers than any other form of power generation. 
Don 't let one incident obscure all that. 
The article continued: 
A decision on the technology and plans for the proposed WA station would be made about 1985, by which time reactor technology- including safety factors- would have been significantly advanced. 
The State would also have the benefit of experiences in other countries operating nuclear plants. 
WA would look closely at what had happened at Harrisburg and take full advantage of any information it got about the technological defects that took place in the plant. However, the United States was not as up-to-date in some of its nuclear technology as some countries. 
The Premier then stated: 
When we build a plant in WA it will be the most modern there is with the best technology that is available then, and with full advantage of anything that has happened in the meantime, including this incident. 
It is obvious from that statement that  Sir Charles  does not think much of the United States technology. He advances the idea that by the time we get round to having a nuclear energy station in Western Australia all the problems will be solved. I repeat that the Premier said: 
When we build a plant in Western Australia it will be the most modern there is with the best technology that is available then, and with full advantage of anything that has happened in the meantime, including this incident. 
Does he not honestly believe that at the time of the concept of the Harrisburg station it was believed that the most modern technology was being used? Of course it was. What makes  Sir Charles  think that the situation will be any different in Western Australia? I would have thought that the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster,  with that portfolio, would have been much more aware of what is happening in the nuclear industry. He is supposed to be the Minister responsible for science and yet he knows very little about it. He says that there has been no loss of life. He is obviously ill-informed or is deliberately trying to fool the people of Australia. I intend to put forward tonight a few facts about nuclear accidents, including deaths in the industry. I refer to both the military and civil industries. 
It was my intention to cover all the accidents which could in fact result in later deaths because of leukaemia, because of lung cancer, because of bone marrow cancer, but because I understand that there are other senators who wish to speak on the adjournment I will content myself with dealing initially with those accidents that have resulted in a loss of life or perhaps serious injury to person. At another time I will use this chamber to detail very definitely some of the environmental havoc that has been wreaked by the nuclear industry. I make the point that these are only some of the accidents which are known, some of those which have been reported. They are, of course, not all of the accidents that have occurred. The Senate would be aware, as I am, that the members of the Press endeavour to hide from the general news-consuming public things that they think may to some extent disturb them. 
Yes; the honourable senator is quite right; there is a conspiracy between the media, Governments and big business, to hide from the news consuming public of 
Australia and possibly in other countries of the world news of incidents that do in actual fact occur. If  Senator Peter  Baume has ever been into a newspaper office he will realise that it is one man sitting at a desk with a blue pencil who determines whether the news reporter saw what he claimed to have seen or whether we will read what that sub-editor thinks we should know. Let us look at what was perhaps the first accident in which a death occurred. This was back in 1958 in Vinca, Yugoslavia. Perhaps Yugoslavia is one of the countries to which  Sir Charles  Court might turn for technological advice. One death occurred. I repeat for the benefit of  Senator Webster  what he said in this chamber only last night. He said: 
The nuclear industry is a very responsible industry. There has been no loss of life. 
There was one death 20 years ago in Yugoslavia. 
From the annual report of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. The Minister for Science should be aware of the SIPRI reports. If he has not read them I would suggest that they might contain a great deal of information which would be of interest to him. In 1958 in Los Alamos in the United States of America one death was caused by radioactivity in a uranium enrichment plant, and again in 1958 - 
The source for that is also the SIPRI annual report. All of the details that I am going to give  Senator Webster  can be found in either the SIPRI annual report or in the  Contingency Plan  put out by the Work Circle Environment Centre in the United Kingdom or in  Ms Coleing  's paper for the movement against uranium mining. All these instances are sourced; they are all authenticated. 

 - Senator Townley can discuss the coal miners at some other time. At this moment I am discussing the nuclear industry and if he does not want to learn I suggest he leave the chamber. Again in 1958, which can only be described as a particularly bad year for the nuclear industry, in the Ural Mountains in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics - 
-We are not talking about communist technology. Once again I make the point that perhaps that is one of the countries to which  Sir Charles  Court may be going to turn for advice before he builds the nuclear energy station in Western Australia. There was a report of an explosion which killed hundreds of people, caused the mass evacuation of thousands more, and caused countless villages to be destroyed. In the words of a witness to the after-effects hundreds of square miles of land were left barren and unusable 'for decades, and maybe for centuries'. I do not want the Minister to take the words of a lay senator as fact. I want to read an article which appeared in the  Australian  on 9 December 1 976 and which was supported by an article in the  New Scientist  of 30 June 1 977. For the benefit of those honourable senators who may have missed this article I will read from the  Australian.  It would not be surprising if honourable senators had missed it. Once again we look at the irresponsibility of the Press in the placement of articles. In this case I am referring to the print media. This article appeared on page 4 which is a left hand page and that is not the most popular page for reading as any advertising agent will tell honourable senators. It is in a very small corner of a large newspaper and one can only suggest that perhaps it did not appear there by accident. Perhaps it appeared there more by design in the hope that it might be overlooked by the vast majority of readers. The article appeared under the heading 'N-blast accident in Urals killed hundreds'. It was written by Robert Rosenberg in Jerusalem on Wednesday. It states: 
A witness to the after-effects of a nuclear disaster in Russia says only chimneys remained of bustling villages devastated by the catastrophe. 
Hundreds of square miles of land were left barren and unusable 'for decades, and maybe for centuries', by a blast in which hundreds of people died, said Professor Leo  Tumerman  78, in the first public report given in the west by a witness of its effects. 

 Dr Tumerman emigrated to Israel in 1972 and does research work at the Weizman  Institute. 
As far as I could see there were no villages, no towns, no people, no cattle herds',  Dr Tumerman  said in an interview . . . 
A report published in London by the Russian scientist,  Dr  Zhores Medvedev  said a 1 958 nuclear explosion in the town of  Kyahtim  killed hundreds and forced the evacuation of the surrounding population. 
Western intelligence sources said the explosion was actually from a plutonium stockpile and not an atomic waste cemetery as  Medvedev  had said. 

 Dr Tumerman said he witnessed the aftereffects of the catastrophe when he was travelling on the main north-south Urals Highway in June 1 96 1 , on his way to visit the construction site of the first major Russian atomic power plant ... 
They drove for almost 32km and on each side of the main road the land was a vast nothing, the Professor said. 
 I asked my driver why we could not stop and he told me that there had been a tremendous explosion several years before and ever since then it had been like this ', he said. 
We were not really close to where the explosion occurred. The entire area was "hot", very radio-active'. 
The explosion was the result of the negligence of officials. They were careless and a catastrophe occurred '. 
No, that was in the stockpile. This product is used in nuclear energy stations or is the honourable senator not aware of that either? I was listing the number of reported accidents in nuclear energy stations and what is now described as the first major reactor accident in the United States of America in 1961. 1 have already detailed one accident which occurred three years earlier. Obviously it was not considered to be a major accident even though there was loss of life. If we want to play with words I guess we can distinguish between a uranium enrichment plant and a reactor but the result is the same. The industry is still the same and only the names have been changed. No one is being fooled. In this particular accident there was an explosion in which three people were killed instantly. That may seem bad enough but when the report goes on to say that the bodies of those three people were so severely irradiated that they had to be buried in a dump for radioactive waste, then I suggest we have just about hit the bottom of the barrel. How can the Minister for Science and the Environment sit in this chamber and say that there has been no loss of life? Is he, like  Sir Charles  Court, burying his head in the sand in the rather vain hope that if he does not acknowledge that a problem exists then it might just get up and run away? 
Let us go a little bit further. There are more accidents. There have been a total of 58 accidents in the last 20-odd years. Let us go to April 1 963 when the nuclear submarine, the USS  Thresher,  disappeared while on a deep-sea test dive. There were 1 12 naval men and 17 civilians on board. No one knows what happened. If they do they are not going to tell us anyway. Because the Minister for Science and the Environment is not terribly well informed on nuclear matters let me just tell him that since the USS  Thresher  incident, and up to October 1976- because that is the last date that I have- there were a total of 32 accidents involving nuclear submarines. That is 32 accidents in 13 years. I hope that the Minister will recognise that anything nuclear, even nuclear submarines, must be considered as part of the nuclear industry. 
-Then let us get back to the nuclear reactor incidents. Let us talk about a uranium enrichment plant at Wood River Junction in the United States of America where in 1 964 there was one death from radioactivity. In 1965 at Moi in Belgium a worker's leg had to be amputated after exposure to radiation. In 1 972 at the Surry No. 1 plant in the United States of America two deaths occurred following the blowout of a valve. In 1 975 in Oklahoma, United States of America, workers contracted plutonium poisoning in an enrichment plant, and a chief witness died in mysterious circumstances. In 1975 at Gundreminngen in the Federal Republic of Germany, two deaths occurred following a leak of 800 litres of radioactive steam during vent repairs. In April 1977, and much closer to home, there was an incident at the Australian Atomic Energy Commission's nuclear reactor at Lucas Heights. I recognise the fact that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has never admitted responsibility publicly. I am prepared to accept that the Government has never accepted responsibility publicly, but it has in fact accepted responsibility by virtue of the payment of compensation to the widow of the man who died as a result of exposure to radiation. That happened here in Australia. 
In Western Australia the Premier is hell-bent on being the first Premier to subject the inhabitants of his State to nuclear energy, something we do not need, cannot afford and certainly cannot handle. The Minister for Science and the Environment said last night that the nuclear industry is a responsible industry, and I have to agree with him. It is responsible. It is responsible for untold human suffering. It is responsible for irreparable damage to the environment, and it is responsible for the sheer waste of human as well as financial resources. All of the things I have spoken about tonight can be authenticated from the publications I have named, but in case honourable senators have forgotten them, I repeat that they include the annual reports of the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. Anybody who cares to look up  The Contingency Plan  put out by the Work Circle Environment Centre in the United Kingdom can verify the other statements. 
New let us look at the Harrisburg incident. One of the things that I find remarkable about Harrisburg is the apparent willingness of the media to cover this story in totality when in the past they have been rather reluctant to discuss anything nuclear, particularly anything antinuclear. They do not want to involve themselves in a controversy. They are frightened of the big business interests withdrawing their advertising and, of course, to a certain extent they have to protect or destroy governments, depending on which point of view is held. However, the coverage of the Harrisburg incident is a little different. Harrisburg has been front page news in every newspaper in Australia and, I would suggest, front page news in every newspaper in every country for the past week. Harrisburg has brought journals such as  Newsweek  into the general discussion of the nuclear industry- and not before time. 
Perhaps the most terrible thing about Harrisburg is the unknown. We just do not know what will happen and no one can tell us because even the experts are floundering. They do not know the short-term or the long-term effects. They cannot say with any certainty how many people may die in the short term or how many people may die in the long term from the effects of radiation in Harrisburg. 
I am being quite serious, and if the honourable senator looked at  Newsweek  of 15 February in which about 13 pages are devoted to the nuclear industry, he would see exactly what I mean. The article on page 6 states; 
Many experts agreed that the radiation posed no immediate threat to health, but others-  that is other experts-  warned of cancer, genetic damage and other longterm effects from the low-level emissions. 
They are floundering, whether or not the honourable senator likes to accept it. A further article on page 1 8 states: 
At present the recommended maximum annual exposure to man-made non medical radiation for the general public is 300  millirems.  This is five times the natural background, and is well above the typical exposure of 200 millirems a year that Americans get from all sources. A chest X-ray exposes a person to 43 millirems in a few seconds. Experts have also derived a complex formula for workers exposed to radiation that averages out to 5,000 millirems per year. But fears persist that the linear extrapolation is not accurate. Some scientists think that it underestimates the dangers of low level radiation. 
In a study of some 35,000 workers at the Hannaford nuclear facility in the United States- this was the first careful study ever carried out on workers in the industry- it was established that there is an increasing incidence of leukaemia, bone marrow cancer and lung cancer amongst the workers. In fact,  Dr Radford  of the Biological Effects of Ionising Radiation Committee said in 1978 that occupational limits amongst workers in the nuclear industry were 10 times higher than the established norm. A study done at Portsmouth in the United Kingdom has shown that cancer deaths are 450 per cent above the expected levels. 
-I can talk to  Senator Baume  at length about the Windscale operations if he wants to delay the Senate. In fact, I have quite a lot of documentaton on the Windscale operations. I can talk about the fact that some two million litres of milk had to be poured into the rivers and the sea after radiation exposure following an explosion. This was done because of the harmful effects the milk may have had if it had been consumed by the public. But what no one has ever bothered to tell me is what were the harmful effects on the fish, the crustaceans and the bird life. To the best of my knowledge, no one has done a study of the Windscale situation. If such a study has been done, it certainly has not been made public because governments do not like to make such things public. One would expect that they would have had time to find out. If they have found out, they certainly have not told anybody. 
-That may be so, but I would suggest that the Windscale inquiry was also pretty selective. We can talk about the infant death rate in Grand Junction in Colorado, where there has been a number of nuclear incidents and where the infant death rate is 50 per cent higher than the State average. We can talk about the situation in Rum Jungle in the Northern Territory, where there has been destruction of parts of the Finniss River. We can talk about a transient worker who was employed for something like three months at the West Valley plant in the United States in a particularly high radiation level room. Two of his children have been born genetically deformed and their life expectancy is no more than 10 years. We can talk about studies in the United States which show that there is a slight increase in radiation levels in rabbits and fish around reactor sites in the United States. Of course, honourable senators opposite may not be concerned about rabbits and fish because they may not realise that many people in this world live off those rabbits and fish. 
As I said before, even the experts that are quoted in the  Newsweek  article are in a dilemma over the Harrisburg situation. Even the community people involved, including the Governor of the State of Pennsylvania, are confused. President Carter has said that he is not sure what the long term effects will be. He is not sure whether people will have to be evacuated. The company itself has said that it does not as yet know what will be the outcome of the Harrisburg situation. 
I wanted particularly to relate this situation to an incident which occurred some months ago in Western Australia. In Western Australia we have a Premier who wants to subject us to the installation of a nuclear energy station. I referred earlier to the fact that the Press was in cahoots with big business and with governments. It is quite selective in the news that it publishes. On 7 December, an article appeared in the Western Australian  Daily News.  Honourable senators could be excused if they read the paper and missed it because it did not receive anywhere near the same prominence as other vital national or even international news items. For instance, it was four pages after an item about pornographic posters being taken off the streets of Paris. It was seven pages after a rather lengthy description of San Francisco's new mayoress, which ended up telling the world that she was 'elegant'. The Wanneroo Shire Council's rejection of proposals for a nude beach made page six. Even the Federal Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom),  who at that stage attempted to foil a cat burglar, made page 12. One of the most important items, and one that could affect many people in Australia- particularly in Western Australiamade page 29. It was put in almost as an afterthought. Just so we get our priorities right it followed those delightful paid advertisements which tell where one can get ripped-off if one happens to be able to afford to dine out in Perth. This article in the  Daily News  of Thursday, 7 December 1978, is headed 'Lost "hot" device underlines danger'. The dateline is Kalgoorlie. The article states: 
A local anti-uranium group said yesterday that the recent disappearance of a radioactive device from the Kambalda nickel operations underlined the danger of nuclear energy. 
Should the uranium industry really get under way in this area- and it won't stop at a research plant- there will be far more lethal problems at hand ', a spokesman for Goldfields Against Nuclear Energy (GANE) said. 
The device, described as 'potentially dangerous', was reported missing by Western Mining Corporation in mid-November. 
It contains Cesium 137 and is used for measuring the density of nickel the time that it was not pulp. The company said it was not known if the device had been stolen or lost. 
It was still missing yesterday. 
The GANE spokesman said: 'People in the Eastern Goldfields who have stopped to think will have realised how serious this matter is. 
It was stated that the material has a half-life of 30 yearswhich means that exposure to it for a short time would have far more disastrous effects than would the same exposure to material with a half-life of, say, 100,000 years. 
The shorter the half-life the more quickly the deadly radioactivity is dispersed '. 
The article continues: 
The loss of the device must have  embarrased  WMC officials. 
I am sure that it did because it was some weeks later that the newspaper reported, again in a very small paragraph on a rather obscure page under the heading of 'N-device shipped in scrap', that in actual fact the 'hot' device which was causing so much concern to Western Mining Corporation's officials had been shipped in scrap metal to Singapore. The Singapore Government really did not like it very much and it wanted to know what was going to happen to it. The Western Australian Government said it assumed that the device previously described as 'potentially dangerous' went to Singapore last month. This report is on 12 December so at the same time that that statement was made, on 7 December, it had already been missing for quite some time. The article said that the Western Mining Corporation was likely to be prosecuted over the incident. Honourable senators might be pleased to know that that organisation is being prosecuted over the incident now. 
Of course, it raises other questions: Did the workers at the Kambalda nickel refinery know that they were working with radioactive material? Were they told that this was happening? Obviously, the Western Mining Corporation did not provide adequate security. There is no way that a potentially dangerous or 'hot' device can just disappear. I can assure honourable senators that it is taken quite deliberately. If it is shipped with scrap metal, it is picked up with the scrap metal. It is potentially dangerous to people's health. The Western Mining Corporation just happens to be the organisation that is going to mine uranium at Yeelirrie. Members of that organisation are the people who presumably will be providing uranium for the Western Australian nuclear energy station if it gets under way. If they cannot be responsible for a radioactive device which they are using in their nickel mines, how on earth can they be responsible for a much more potentially dangerous material which may be available to them in a uranium mine? I now refer to an article in the  West Australian  of 13 December. It stated: 
Western Mining Corporation has tightened security at its Kambalda nickel-mining operation to prevent the loss of any more radioactive measuring devices. 
Would not honourable senators have expected that it would have tightened its security before it was lost? The company must have been aware of the potentially dangerous substance. The officials certainly knew that it was radioactive, even if the workers did not. These are the organisations that do not want us to discuss uranium, especially when people happen to be anti-uranium. They are concerned that we- I suppose one might call us the anti-uranium lobby- may be able to point out to the people of Australia that we will be in danger from radioactivity if we go ahead not only with the mining of uranium but also with the installation of nuclear energy stations. We will be in danger if we allow people to work in mines where they will be subjected to high levels of radiation. Perhaps there would be an excuse for this hiding of facts by the Government, by companies and by the Press if Australia was going to benefit a great deal by either the mining of uranium or the installation of nuclear stations. I can assure honourable senators that Western Australia which has a population of 1.2 million cannot afford nuclear energy. We do not want it. As I have already said, we cannot handle it. Irrespective of what the Government may have to say on this issue there are no adequate safeguards. 
No, unfortunately he is rather like the Minister for Science and the Environment. He does not believe that there has been any loss of life in the nuclear industry. He says that it is very responsible. As I have already pointed out, it is responsible for an awful lot of things but one could not call it a responsible industry. Even the Australian Atomic Energy Commission has predicted that there will be a big drop in world demand for uranium, yet we are still going ahead with the mining of uranium. We are going to allow the Western Mining Corporation to commence operations at Yeelirrie because somehow some people somewhere along the line- I will leave it to the imagination of those listening as to where these people arewill make a lot of money. It will not be us. We will not get cheap energy. It has already been proven in the United States and other countries that nuclear energy is no longer cheap. We will not benefit to any great extent by additional income in Australia. We will not even provide a great number of jobs. The Fox report has already told us all these things. 
I started this debate tonight to counteract what I considered to be the most dangerous statement that a supposedly responsible Minister in this Government could have made during the debate last night. He said that there has been no loss of life and that the nuclear industry is a responsible industry. I do not believe that we should have in this house a Minister who makes an unsubstantiated statement similar to the one he made last night that the nuclear industry is a responsible industry. It is not a responsible industry. It is in the business to make money. Let us not delude ourselves. Any consideration of responsibility is secondary only to the amount of money that the nuclear industry can rip off from the people of Australia and people throughout the world. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, follows from a television program concerning X-rays which, I understand, was screened some three or four weeks ago and which appears to be causing some concern in the community. I ask the Minister. Is slow speed dental X-ray film in use in Australia and in particular, is it being used in school dental programs? Is the Minister aware that dental film of sensitivity lower than speed Group D is no longer being manufactured in or imported for use into the United States or other countries for use because of the established high level of patient exposure and the subsequent risk to patients' health? Will the Minister seek a report on slow speed dental film and the extent of its use in Australia, particularly with regard to its use on children, who might be considered to be at greater risk in the community? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. The Minister is probably aware of a publication by the Trade Practices Commission called  A Shopper's Guide  which is available through the Australian Government Publishing Service at a cost of $1.15. As the publication contains valuable information which could provide assistance to consumers of all goods and services will the Minister see whether it could be made available at a more realistic price? As a great number of people in the Australian community do not have the capacity to read and understand English, would he also give consideration to having the booklet published in a number of other languages? 
I bring to the attention of the Senate a document entitled 'A Report on Health Conditions of Aboriginal Children in Western Australia'. It was prepared for the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom as part of its contribution towards the International Year of the Child. It is an extremely important document. It contains very important statistics of which I think the Senate should take a great deal of notice in this International Year of the Child. lt reads: 
A Swedish pamphlet on the International Year of the Child says that 'today there are approximately 200 million children who never get a chance to learn reading, writing or counting. More than SOO million are threatened by malnutrition and half of them suffer from under-nourishment'. 
Such astronomical figures of misery can make one either throw up one's hands in despair, or grit the teeth and take up (he challenge. A point to remember is that the numbers can be broken down into manageable quantities. This report by the Western Australian Section of the Women's International Leage for Peace and Freedom is concerned with the health of one group in this ocean of suffering- the Aboriginal children of Western Australia. 
Eminent paediatricians of the Princess Margaret Children's Medical Research Foundation have this to say about gastroenteritis: 
There is no doubt that gastroenteritis remains a major health problem in Aboriginal infants and children. In 1977 a report from Princess Margaret Hospital showed that over a twelve-month period Aboriginal children occupied a total of 10,952 bed days; many because of gastroenteritis. More than 50 per cent of the patients were malnourished and many were anaemic. Most admissions were for nutritional and related disorders, mostly chronic and recurrent chests and gastro-intestinal infections. Although gastroenteritis is a major problem in young Aborigines, the precise extent of the problem is unknown. Western Australia is in a strong position to document this problem because of its extensive Statewide recording system. A study done recently of the latest available figures, for 1976, reveal some interesting aspects of this problem. Although Aborigines constitute only 4 per cent of the Western Australian population under 1 5 years, they accounted for 39 per cent of admissions for gastroenteritis. There are interesting regional variations in admission rates for gastroenteritis. Infants had the highest admission rate; State-wide the rate for white infants is 4 1 / 1 ,000/year and for Aboriginal infants 89 1 / 1 ,000/year. In Perth the admission rate for white infants was 28/1 ,000 and for Aboriginal infants 636/ 1 ,000. The admission rate for Aboriginal infants in the Kimberley is an astounding 1,436/1,000 which means that, on average, every Aboriginal infant will be hospitalised for gastroneteritis at least once before his first birthday. 
I am not suggesting that there is anything new in what I am saying. I simply make the point that to my mind this is a very important report because this happens to be the International Year of the Child and the Aboriginal children in Australia are the most hard done by children in the world. Returning to the report,  Mr President-  I am sure you would express an interest in this particular subject since you come from a State where there is an Aboriginal population- it reads: 
Interestingly, in an isolated mission community in the Kimberley where community nutrition is good and where breast feeding is well maintained, the admission rates for gastroenteritis are much lower. 
These very high admission rates re-emphasise the seriousness of this problem in the Aboriginal community. It also highlights the importance of removing sources of infections in lessening the disease problems of young Aborigines. There is little point in treating these youngsters in hospitals, feeding them up and repairing their nutritional problems, only to have them return to heavily contaminated living conditions to contract yet another infection which will cause them to be admitted for yet another episode of gastroenteritis. ' 
The same team, quoted by the  West Australian  of 20 June 1 977, says that the cost of those 10,952 bed days to the community would have been $8 1 6,472. The average stay was 1 2 days, about double that of other children. They continued: The burden of disease and death borne by Aboriginal children affects mainly those under two years of age. ' This was often related to bottle feeding, their report said. 
An Aboriginal mother we spoke with agrees with this. One reason for ill health,' she said, 'is that too many Aboriginal children are bottle fed. The mothers don 't understand and are not taught the need for cleanliness, and so the children get all kinds of sickness. I breast fed my children till they were two. ' 
This mother had not had to go through the ordeal of camping in tents, in living in huts made of scraps from rubbish tips, or under bridges. For the fringe-dwellers, whose education is usually poor, hygiene is virtually an impossibility. Facilities for homework for the children, or adult study in such circumstances are generally beyond their reach. lt has been said (hat mild or moderate degrees of undernourishment are common in Aboriginal children, but severe degrees of malnutrition are not. This, however, is not a recipe for complacency. 
A study of dietary patterns and nutrient intakes in a large aboriginal community in the south-west of Western Australia found that eating habits were worst on the reserves, best in the people living in State Housing Commission houses, with those living in 'transitional' houses intermediate between the two. 
Trachoma is another disease that afflicts Aborigines. The National Trachoma and Eye Health Programme of the Royal Australian College of Opthalmologists has found that WA has the highest trachoma rate of any State for children under 1 1 years- 41 per cent of the 13,018 Aborigines seen. Those under 1 1 who were found to be suffering from infected running ears were 19 per cent of the total. At Cun.derlce, a recent test found that 43 per cent of the children examined had running ears in a population of 300-500. This sometimes ends in deafness, lt seems that desert Aborigines arc free from this symptom. 

 Dr Gwyn Howells, the Director of the Programme, is quoted in the  West Australian  of August 8, 1978, as saying that 23 per cent of all Aborigines in WA, South Australia and the Northern Territory who were over 60 were blind. lt is significant that trachoma was eradicated from the white population SO years ago: and in Europe, long before the advent of antibiotics, this scourge disappeared when living conditions became more hygienic. 
Professor Byron Kakulas, of the University of WA and the Royal Perth Hospital, made a significant statement, speaking in Athens and reported in the  West Australian  of April 13, 1979: 
Medicine is traditionally oriented to treating medical crises- an attempt to repair machinery after it had failed . . . The health maintenance concept is a practical proposition, lt could be introduced immediately at only a fraction of the cost of crisis medicine. 
The opinions of these eminent medical scientists powerfully reinforce the opinions of members of the WILPF 
During the last two years the Federal Government has funded $ 1.75m towards the eradication of trachoma, and more than 100,000 Aborigines have been examined and treated where necessary. However, the WA representative of the College of Opthalmologists is reported as saying that the efforts of the Minister for Health alone will not be sufficient to stamp out the problem. 
Therefore it is more than probable that the granting of land rights, with the spiritual satisfaction that that would confer, together with adequate standards of education, employment and housing, with their concomitant social security, are necessary adjuncts to medical treatment. 
In WA the missing element is the reluctance of governments to do their duty to their least favoured citizens. The situation of many Aborigines may be better than that of the poor in such under-developed countries as Chad or Brazil, but it is entirely unacceptable to people of understanding and goodwill that in this affluent country the governments fail so lamentably to provide the expenditure needed to lift the status of the Aboriginal citizens. Not only are millions of dollars spent on hospital treatment which a healthier living environment would make unnecessary, but more millions have to be spent on unemployment relief because Aborigines have not received the training and skills which would qualify them for employment. With regard to health, much could be done by on site training of Aborigines as recommended in the 1978 report on Health by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. 
The prevalence of alcoholism among Aborigines Ls also a national scandal and tragedy. Its origins are probably rooted in the frustration endured by appalling living conditions and the prospect of a blank future. Not infrequently Aborigines are insulted by whites and become the scapegoats of police surveillance. 
The effects of this blight on the parents are visited upon the children in the unhappiness and neglect experienced in their home life. 
An alcoholic rehabilitation centre has been established by the Catholic Church on a property some 30 miles south-east of Perth. People benefit from a stay there but return to their former environment and habits. Had land rights, housing and employment been given with drinking rights, results might have been less disastrous. 
What the people themselves say of their predicament provides a vivid backdrop to the statistics. 
A middle-aged woman who lives in a camp near Perth is one whose camp life goes back for decades: 'I was taken to New Norcia (mission) when a child,' she told us. 'We weren't allowed to mix with the Aborigines outside New Norcia, but they used to come and speak to us through the wire fence. They told us who our people were. One said she was my mother. 
 Later I went with her and we lived in camps in Bassendean, Eden Hill, Allawah Grove and Saunders Street.' (These are all in the metropolitan area of Perth). 'It was cold there at night; the wind used to blow through the tent. There was no water supply near. I got ill and went to hospital. The doctor asked where I lived. I said "In a tent." He said. "You're a sick woman, you shouldn't be living there." ' 
This woman lives now in a settlement of old tents in the Perth outer suburb of Lockridge. She still has to go frequently to hospital with chest trouble. 'How long will  Mr Young  take to make up his mind and grant us another area, with houses to live in?' she says.  (Mr Young is W.A. Minister for Health and Welfare.) 
A man told us: 'I've lived in the bush. When the rain poured our rugs would get all wet. We were living in a big, open tent. My son got ill and went to hospital. Later he got ill again and died that night in my arms. I'll never forget that night. 
The children used to suffer from scabies, living under such conditions. Many's the time we had to wrap a child in a blanket and take it to the hospital. Every child suffered from illness. 
The people that live that life knows what they want. Many Aboriginal people have died living in such conditions. 
Nobody seems to think that the Lockridge people want a better place to live, though they can see these people camped before their eyes. 
Get hold of some of the young Aboriginal people and see what kind of a life they'd want. The black man should be able to plan his own future. ' 
Another man, one who has fought for years to get living conditions for his people: 
Times when I've been so tired! Been defeated over and over again. But next morning I get up and fight again. ' 
Of Government agencies, ' I 've always said "They're puppets on a string".' 
According to the Government census of 1 976, the Aboriginal population of W.A. was 26,104; 2.36 per cent of the entire W.A. population. Of this 26,104 the estimated percentage of Aboriginal children under 1 4 was 46. 1 6 per cent. 
In the light of the information in the Swedish pamphlet mentioned above- 200 million children in the world who  never get a chance to learn to read, write or count; 500 million children threatened with malnutrition- Australia's population of Aboriginal children is a small and manageable number. 
In a country where some can indulge their every whim in luxurious dwellings, yachts, travel, cars, sports and entertainment, another section exists in an environment of degradation in which children are being forced into the same pattern as their elders. 
The consciousness of the Aboriginal people is rising. Many understand the injustice of their position in a land that was once their own. The longer the righting of these wrongs is delayed, the more dangerous the consequent reaction. 
What holds back the white community from ending this unnecessary suffering? ls it not lack of imagination, lack of humanity, the prevalence of racism, the propensity of politicians to spend money where votes can be procured? 
On the other hand, many Australians do care. They are aware that this is the International Year of the Child. They are uneasy about the sorry name we bear internationally for our treatment of the Aborigines. They are aware that the devoted effort of scores of humane people in Church and other organisations are insufficient to solve the problem. ls it not high time we insisted on an intelligent, integrated, well-organised Government policy supported by the funding necessary to clear our national name by ending this injustice? 
As Barbara Ward, the distinguished English economist has written: 'The great Hebrew prophets- from  Isiah  to Karl Marx- have called on men 'to undo the thongs of the yoke to let the enslaved go free . . . sharing your bread with the hungry and bringing the homeless to your house'. 
As I said at the outset, this is the International Year of the Child. Like International Women's Year, it is not something that is going to fold up its tent at the end of December and slowly fade away into the night. It does not end when the year ends. Those children still need help- most of all the Aboriginal children and particularly those who reside in Western Australia. I believe that it is disgraceful that the following statement can be made about Australian Aboriginals by a person from outside Australia. I refer to a statement made in Pretoria which appeared in the  West Australian  newspaper of 10 April 1979. It read: 
The Australian Aborigines were not being given anywhere near the attention by their Government that blacks were getting in South Africa, the rector of a South African university claimed on his return yesterday from an Australian tour. 
Professor William  Kgware,  of South Africa's University of . the North, said he had no hesitation in saying that Australia did far less for its Aborigines than was being done in South Africa for the blacks. 
I think that that is an indictment not only of the Government and of the society in which we live, but certainly of this Parliament. It is about time, in May of 1979, the International Year of the Child, that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  gave information to the Senate about special projects being put forward to further the cause of Aboriginal children in Australia. 
I was not anticipating that  Senator Hamer's  contribution to the debate would be so small. Following the debate that continued in this chamber today and which has been going on for some time on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill I would like to raise a matter which to me constitutes a gross infringement of human rights by a government department. In the past, whenever I have risen on the adjournment, I have tended to apologise for the fact that I am delaying members of the Senate because I am aware that we spend up to 15 hours a day in this place and we have our other constituency work with which to deal. But I do not use the adjournment lightly and I am not using it lightly now. 
I am using it because of a matter that has been brought to the attention of at least all members on this side of the chamber. I cannot guarantee that it came to the members on the other side of the House. It refers to the Department of Social Security in Queensland. It concerns a letter we have all received from  Mrs Valma  Miller of 89 Goldfinch Street, Inala. It was written on 9 April 1979. I will make particular mention of that date at a later stage, but I want to read the letter. I think it is very important. It makes some very serious allegations against members of the Department of Social Security.  Mrs Miller's  letter reads: 
To Members of the Senate, Attention Members. 
Dear Sirs- 
Obviously  Mrs Miller  is unaware that there are some women in the Parliament- 
I wish to bring to your notice my position with the Social Security Department. Since January this year my widow's pension I was receiving from the department, has been stopped. 
I remind honourable senators that this letter was written in April and she is talking about her pension being stopped in January.  Mrs Miller's  letter continues: 
I am a divorced person with two children to support, the department has cut off the pension because some person (who is known to me) reported to the department that a male person was seen at my home. I have been told by Social Security that I cannot receive anything in this nature again. Since losing the pension my children and I have been living on the hand-outs of charily organisations, such as groceries and so forth, of which I have been very grateful to receive. 
There must be something that can be done for my family and I beg of you out of humanity and compassion to bring this matter to the senate and have the Social Security act reviewed and to approach the Minister for Social Security  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle to show some compassion for my children 's sake. 
Honourable senators will note that she mentions only her children. She is not concerned with herself.  Her  letter continues: 
A field Officer from Social Security (so he claimed but would show no identification when asked) came to my home and just walked in, I was very frightened as I was alone. He told mc he was investigating the complaint and proceeded to search my rooms. He said he was looking for male items of clothing but there were no such articles to be found, he was very rude in his manner and I would like to know what rights a woman has against this sort of activity or is it correct for an officer of this type to walk into another's home without a warrant. 
I have had visits from friends but not to stay. Surely pensioners are allowed to receive visitors. I have never at any time received money from anyone other than my Social Security cheque and I beg of you to see if you can help me to get my Widow pension restored, for my children 's sake. 
Yours faithfully 
I was very concerned about that letter. Unfortunately, it arrived during the three-week recess that the Parliament had over the Easter and the Anzac Day period. I became so concerned that I sent a telegram to  Mrs Miller  early last week. I asked her to contact my office in Perth and to give us the full details. This she has done. But the letter itself raises a number of important points. I want to refer firstly to where  Mrs Miller  says: 
I have been told by Social Security that 1 cannot receive anything in this nature again. 
I now have to ask: Who in the Department of Social Security would make such a broad sweeping statement, not knowing what the future holds for  Mrs Miller  and not knowing what her change in circumstances may be? What audacity it is for a member of a Department, presumably a responsible member of a Department, to suggest that she would never receive anything of that nature again. 
The second point in the letter asks for the Social Services Act to be reviewed. I would not argue with that. There would be some suggestion on my part that the Act needs reviewing. 1 suggest that in  Mrs Miller's  case it is not the Act that needs to be reviewed; it is the provision in the Act that controls the officers of the Department of Social Security that needs to be looked at very closely to see how that section is being administered by the various departments. 
The third point I want to raise is connected with what  Mrs Miller  states in her letter: 
A field Officer from Social Security (so he claimed but would show no identification when asked ) came to my home and just walked in. 
Apparently working on the assumption that people who receive social security benefits suddenly become third-class citizens, this man took it upon himself to just walk in.  Mr President,  I suggest that you would not allow anybody to just walk into your home. I would not allow anyone to just walk into my home. It is unfortunate that people who receive social security benefits feel threatened by the sheer authority of people who can say: 'I am a field officer from the Department of Social Security'. These people do not know their rights.  Mrs Miller  goes on in her letter to state: 
I was very frightened as I was alone. 
Of course she was very frightened. We have only to read a newspaper in any capital city today to know why she would be frightened. People working in a sensitive area like social security should be aware that a woman by herself would be frightened. I would probably feel the same way except I doubt very much that I would feel threatened by this authoritarian attitude adopted by a member of the Department. Perhaps it is because 1 am not in receipt of a pension from the Department of Social Security that I would not feel so threatened. I feel that field officers tend to take their duties rather heavily in this situation. I suggest to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  that if the field officers employed by her Department do not have the necessary sensitivity to work in that area they should not be working in that capacity.  Mrs Miller  goes on to say: 
He told me he was investigating the complaint and proceeded to search my rooms. 
By whose authority did he search her rooms? He did not have a search warrant. He was not a member ofthe police force who would require a search warrant. But once again, because she is in receipt of a social security benefit, he feels that he is entitled to search her rooms. She states further: 
He said he was looking for male items of clothing- 
I suppose that if she had had a grown-up son he could have found some items of male clothing. As it is, she has two young sons but I presume that he was looking for adult male items of clothing. We have all had complaints before about the Department of Social Security bedsniffers. Those complaints have been raised in the Senate and in the other place. I think that this goes a little further and a little lower than that. I do not like it one bit. 
Following my telegram to  Mrs Miller  she telephoned my office. In a moment I will relate my secretary's notes of the conversation. The next thing that bothers me about  Mrs Miller's  letter is that she states: 
I have had visits from friends but not to stay; surely pensioners are allowed to receive visitors. 
Of course they are allowed to see visitors. They are allowed to have people stay overnight. They just cannot be supported by other people. All honourable senators know this. It is the people who are in receipt of those benefits who do not know their rights. Once again, we come back to the responsibility of the Department of Social Security. 1 now refer to the notes of the conversation with  Mrs Valma  Miller of 89 Goldfinch St, Inala, Queensland on Thursday 3 May 1 979 - Thursday of last week- with my secretary at my Perth office. This note is in my secretary's words, not in mine. The note states: 

 Mrs Miller has two sons aged 8 and 10 years. She is paying off her home at the rate of$23 per week. 
On Tuesday 6 December 1978 a man about 5 '3 "tall - 
That is the only way that  Mrs Miller  can describe him-  called at  Mrs Miller's  home and said that he was a field officer from the Department of Social Security. He refused to produce any identification and said that he had the authority to search  Mrs Miller's  home. 
He said he needed a table to write on. They were in the lounge and  Mrs Miller  said that he could use the occasional table. The un-named  man said that was not big enough and proceeded to walk from room to room and finally decided to use the kitchen table. 
He then told  Mrs Miller  that because she had a de facto relationship with a man she could be fined $1000 or sent to gaol for six months.  Mrs Miller  was terrified and said that she did not have a man friend although in fact she did have a male friend who visited here from time to time but with whom she had never had a de facto relationship nor had she ever had such a relationship with any man. 
That night  Mrs Miller  contacted her parents and on their advice went to the Social Security Office next day and saw a social worker and explained about her male friend. 
Shortly afterwards the field officer and another man came to the house again and both . . . refused to identify themselves or to produce any authority for being on the premises. 
The  un-named  man who had been to the house previously said that  Mrs Miller  had no right to go and see the social worker. He said that they had definite proof that a man was a substantial resident' of the home.  Mrs Miller  invited unnamed man No. 2 to go through the house and check to sec if he could find anything to give the impression that a man lived there but he declined. 

 Mrs Miller received her last Social Security cheque on 17.1.79. 
As a result of seeing a leaflet somewhere . . . she appealed against the decision.  Mrs Miller  was not advised by the Department to appeal. 
I thought we had spelt out quite clearly the responsibility of the Department to advise people who had their social security benefits stopped that they were to be advised that they had the right of appeal. The note goes on to state: 
She was advised that she had lost the appeal on 9.3.79 hut she had never been interviewed about it and had not appeared before the Tribunal- she had simply 'filled in a form '. 
Presumably it was a form stating that she wanted to appeal. I continue to read from the note: 
When  Mrs Miller  was trying to have her benefit re-instated she was told numerous stories about the where-abouts  of her file which never seemed to be available when it was needed- 
I am sure all honourable senators have gone through that situation with their respective branches of the Department of Social Security. The note further states:  and at one time she was told that 'the field officer had gone on holiday and taken the file with him.' 
That was the wording that she has given me that was repeated to her by a member of the Department of Social Security. The note states: 

 Mrs Miller and her sons survived on charity from various sources including her parents and food parcels from 'Life Line'. 
At one time  Mrs Miller  rang Haydn Sargent on talk back radio and told him about the field officer but he was unable to help her. 
This was quite understandable. Included in the letter that she sent there is a copy of an article from the  Sunday Sun  of 25 March 1979 which obviously refers to  Mrs Miller's  situation. Once again I refer to the note given to my secretary. 
Immediately after this,  Mrs Miller  went to the Department of Social Security and tried to see the Director. The man at the counter said that the Director 'doesn't want to see you kind of people'. 
Later the file was traced to the Social Security office at Inala and the man at the counter said . . . that he understood that  Mrs Miller's  'circumstances had changed'.  Mrs Miller  asked what he meant and he said that she had misled the Department about having a man living with her. 

 Mrs Miller was given a Special Benefit application. 
She said that the man was ' very nasty '. 
I stated that I would refer to the date of  Mrs Miller's  letter and I will do that now. On 12 April, three days after  Mrs Miller  sent a batch of letters to almost every member of the Opposition in the Senate- one has to query whether someone did not know that that letter had been sent, the special benefit was paid very quickly- she received a cheque for $136. On 26 April 1979, she received a further cheque for the same amount.  Her  social security payment in the form of a widow's pension was $144 a fortnight. Nothing has been done to pay  Mrs Miller  any sum at all for the period from 17 January 1979 to 12 April 1979.  Mrs Miller  has told her man friend that he is not to come to the house again. Even when her parents call,  Mrs Miller  is so nervous that she says to her father: 'For heaven's sake, Dad, sit down in case someone sees that I have a man in my house '. 
These notes raise a number of very important questions. One has to ask: At what level in the Public Service are field officers who, on the basis of a rumour or on a neighbour's suspicion that there is a man contributing to the running of a household, would go on inspections of the homes of people who are in receipt of social security benefits? Are those field officers instructed that they not only have to carry but also have to produce identification at all times? If they are not, why are they not so instructed? Why would a field officer return within a very short space of time with a witness from the Department and inform  Mrs Miller  that she had no right to see the social worker at the Department. Of course she has a right to go to see the social worker. Of course she has a right to go to the Department. Of course she has a right to see the Director. In this instance she was informed- and I quote the words used- that the Director 'doesn't want to see you kind of people'. I have to ask whether the Director knows that this is the kind of information that is being handed out over the counter. If he does, I suggest that he has lost touch not only with the people whom he is supposed to serve but also with what is going out of his Department. He certainly will not have the confidence of the people whom he is supposed to serve. If he does not know and if he allows people to make these statements on his behalf, that is an indication that he does not even have the confidence of the people who work for him, and who, if they can determine whether a person will receive his or her pension, presumably work in fairly important positions. 
As members of Parliament, we are public servants. At some time or another we all have to see people whom we may not want to see. We may have to see people whom we cannot assist. Perhaps this activity could be said to be a time consuming or public relations exercise. I suggest that the majority of us would accept those responsibilities in the way that they are given. We do have a responsibility towards our constituents. They do have a right to see us. If we are there in our office, we will see them. 
The notes made by my secretary suggest a number of other points. In the first place, the man told  Mrs Miller  that, .because she had a de facto relationship with a man, she could be fined $1,000 or sent to gaol for six months. I cannot find that in the social security legislation. If she receives money under false pretences, she can be sent to gaol or be fined $ 1 ,000. Because she has a de facto relationship with a man, I cannot see why she should be sent to gaol or fined $ 1,000. 
The notes say that  Mrs Miller  was terrified. I have already explained that of course she was terrified. She was terrified by the mere fact that the field officer came and said that he was from the Department on which she was dependent. The second man came along, together with the first, to say that  Mrs Miller  had no right to go to see the social worker. I ask the Minister why  Mrs Miller  has not the right, or why one of her officers should say that she did not have a right to go to see a social worker? Why did he state that she did not have the right to see the Director if the Director was able to see her? Why did the field officer say that they had definite proof that a man was a substantial resident of the home? She had already gone back to the Department and admitted that she had lied or had told a mistruth. She told him because he was threatening her. That is the only reason she told him that she did not have a male friend. It was only because she was worried that she went to the Department and told it that she had a male friend who visited her at her home. He did not stay at the home. He contributed nothing and she had not had a de facto relationship with him or anyone else. 

 Mrs Miller was not  advised by the  Department to appeal. One has to question what the people in this wretched office in Inala are doing. Are they spending their time running around bedsniffing, or are they doing the job for which they are employed, that is, to serve the people who need them? She was not advised by the Department that she could appeal. She found out for herself that she could do so. Nobody interviewed her about the matter. She did not appear before the Tribunal but was simply told that she had lost the appeal on 9 March. She was not told the grounds for losing the appeal and she was not told that she could receive any benefit. At one time she was told that 'the field officer had gone on holiday and had taken the file with him'. I would suggest that he must have been a very conscientious field officer. 
I was going to suggest that perhaps he was working overtime. Perhaps he was on one of those paid holidays. Here is a woman with two dependent children. She receives a legitimate widow's pension. But she has to receive food parcels from Life Line because of the actions and threats of one man. These threats were made to her. He stated that she could be fined $ 1 ,000. Fancy a person on the social security benefit even thinking about a $1,000 fine or imprisonment for six months! Of course  Mrs Miller  felt threatened. What was going to happen to her children if she was sent to gaol for six months? She certainly did not know any better. The field officer suddenly appears at her doorstep, invites himself into her home, refuses to show any identification and then thinks that she does not feel threatened. 
Dealing further with these notes, I point out that the man at the counter said that the Director doesn't want to see you kind of people'. The Director might not want to see them, but I think that the Senate has a right to know whether he actually does see that kind of person at any time. If he does not, why does he not? That is part of his responsibility. We have a right to know whether the field officer has been identified to the Minister for Social Security and whether disciplinary action has been taken against him and his cohort who came along as a witness at a later stage. We have a right to question when this intimidation of recipients of social security benefits will cease. In this instance, we have a right to ask when and if  Mrs Miller  will receive the benefits to which she was entitled between 1 7 January and 12 April. 
There are a number of other things that this particular problem raises in my mind, and I am sure are raised in the minds of a number of other honourable senators, particularly on this side of the chamber. I suppose we could say that we are all conscious that this is not an isolated instance. We all know of separate cases where officers of the Department of Social Security have done certain things that may not be in the interests of human rights or civil rights. I suppose we should be grateful, or I should be grateful, that  Mrs Miller  had the common sense to write to members of the Parliament. The question that is raised in my mind is what about those people out there who live in poverty and misery because they feel threatened by the Department of Social Security in general and do not know that they can go to a member of Parliament. The Minister for Social Security has a role now to give us a reply on  Mrs Miller's  circumstances and any other matters that we raise from time to time in this place. 
-Is the Minister for Science and the Environment aware of the report published in the  Age  on Friday last released by the United States National Academy of Scientists which concluded that there was no known threshold below which radiation ceased to have adverse effects on human beings? Is he aware that those findings confirm conclusions made by a similar study in 1972? Is he also aware of a paper prepared by a team of researchers from the Medical Research Council's Clinical and Population Cytogenetics Unit in Edinburgh which concluded that chromosome damage occurred even when radiation exposures were below the internationally agreed safety standards? If the answer to any or all of the above questions is 'yes' will he use any influence he may have on the Government to review its acceptance of the international safety standards as a matter of urgency? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. The Minister will remember answering a question about Aboriginal field officers retrenched from the Dubbo Aboriginal Legal Service who were reimbursed two weeks ago for unemployment benefit for which they had applied in mid-February. I ask the Minister if she will now also investigate the cases of four non-Aboriginal lawyers also retrenched from the same service on 9 February who are eligible in the same way for unemployment benefit but who have had no pay and no social services for more than three months? 

That in the opinion of the Senate, the following is a matter of urgency: 
The need for guaranteed, continued and adequate Federal Government funding for women's refuges throughout Australia. 
This morning I intend to show that this is a matter of great urgency. After last Thursday's miniBudget and its dramatic imposts on the Australian people, and with the August Budget yet to come, I believe that the refuges have every right to anticipate that monetary problems of ever greater magnitude than they are presently experiencing will prevail in future. Members of this chamber and those of another place who had the advantage of talking to representatives of women's refuges throughout Australia who visited Canberra last week will recognise some of the problems that they are experiencing now. There appears to have been a change in policy which obviously occurred without a great deal of debate in this place or in the other place. I refer to an undated statement which was prepared by the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle-  I presume at some stage during 1 976 or 1977- in which she says: 
The rates of Commonwealth funding provided within the block grants will be 75 per cent of capital costs and 90 per cent of operating costs. The balances of 25 per cent and 10 per cent respectively must be found from other sources, such as the State. 
The women who were in Canberra last week informed us that 75 per cent of that funding comes from the Federal Government and 25 per cent is normally paid by the State. It is not paid in Queensland, as we know from questions which were raised in this place as long ago as 1976 and 1977, when the Federal Government paid to Queensland an amount for the maintenance of two women's refuges. The Queensland Government refused to pass on that money and allocated it to other programs. The Federal Government then, quite rightly, took the position that it would directly fund women's refuges in that State. 
In Western Australia the situation now is that the State Government has reneged on its commitment to the women's refuges. It has now determined that as from a provisional date, 1 November 1978, women's refuges will receive only 12'/i per cent from the State Government, in addition to the 75 per cent Commonwealth funding. This has left the refuges in an extremely difficult situation. To obtain the 12V4 per cent State Government funding and to obtain the 75 per cent Federal Government funding, the refuges firstly have to find the remaining  2Vi  per cent. To obtain the 1216 per cent, they must have some finance available to them. The only means that they have available to them is to back donate the wages that they deceive as a result of being funded refuges. This is what is happening in Western Australia with the independent refuges. 
I think it is important to note at this stage that there are two separate types of refuges operating throughout Australia, including the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. The first is, of course, the church-backed refuge which obtains its funding from an entirely different source. It does not receive the same proportion of Federal Government funding- that is the 75 per cent. But as a general rule it receives some State Government funding. In some instances it can even obtain some local government funding. Some independent refuges obtain local government funding, as I will demonstrate shortly. I notice  Senator Walters  shaking her head in bewilderment. Perhaps she is not aware that State governments and local governments actually contribute to worthwhile community organisations such as women 's refuges. There are, I believe, some 90-odd refuges operating throughout Australia. Most of those, whilst they are suffering budget restrictions, appear to be the voluntary organisation or the independent refuges, as I have referred to them. 
I said earlier that the State Government of Western Australia had reneged on its contract. In November 1978 the Western Australian State Government suddenly approached the Nardine refuge which had been in receipt of 25 per cent State Government funding and informed the refuge that retrospectively its subsidy would now only be  2lh  per cent. When the refuge complained, the Western Australian Government then decided in its magnanimous way, as only the Western Australian State Government can be magnanimous, that it would leave this until 1 January this year. That is the situation now. So Western Australia has the distinction along with Queensland, of being the only State which does not contribute the entire 25 per cent to women's refuges. In the metropolitan area of Perth we have eight refuges which are specifically designated as women's refuges, but I intend to show in figures which I will produce later that those refuges are used more for children than they are for women. All of them are overtaxed powerwise- I was about to say .....powerwise' but as we are referring to women's refuges it would be totally incorrect to do so. Womanpowerwise they are over taxed. All the refuges are reliant on voluntary workers just to keep them in operation. 
I have an objection to personwise' in that it includes a masculine pronoun. In any case, let us consider the individual refuges. For instance, the Graceville refuge is run by the Salvation Army and receives its funding from that source. It receives approximately - $6,000 or roughly 12Vi per cent from the State Government. The Ave Maria refuge is operated by the Daughters of Charity. It is funded by that organisation with the support of a salary for a social worker from the State Government, through the Public Health Department of Western Australia. Warrawee receives 75 per cent Federal Government funding, 12Vi per cent State Government funding and, I point out to  Senator Walters,  2lh  per cent funding from the Fremantle City Council. Lucy Saw, ACRAH Emmaus, Mary Smith and Nardine refuges all receive 75 per cent funding from the Federal Government and l2Vi per cent funding from the State Government. As I said before, the other 12'/i per cent has to be raised by the refuges themselves. 
It is a full time job for 15 workers at Nardine That refuge receives salaries for seven people. In other words, it has eight voluntary workers working full time. It also has something like 1 5 voluntary workers working on a part time basis. Most of those voluntary workers are people who have used the service of the refuge in the past. In order to raise that 12Vi per cent funding without resorting to the cake stalls and raffles, which is a fairly time consuming occupation, those people have decided to backdate some of their salary. I think they are donating something like one-eight or 12!/i per cent of the seven salaries they receive. The  Catch 22  situation arises because, in order to get any funding at all, they have to have that 12'/2 per cent first and in order to get that 12V4 per cent they have to have the funding from which they get their wages so that they can donate them back. I think honourable senators will agree that that is a very confusing situation. If honourable senators are confused, imagine how confused the people who are working at the refuge are. 
Let us look specifically at the situation at Nardine because it was the first independent refuge established in Western Australia. It was funded in the 1 974-75 Budget program by the Whitlam Government. It was funded continuously until the Labor Government lost office in December 1975. The present Liberal-National Country Party coalition Government continued the funding. I have some figures which have been made available to me by the Parliamentary Library which perhaps the Minister for Social Security, when she replies, will be able to clarify for me. According to the Minister's statement, $900,000 was expected to be utilised during 1976-77, but the figures provided by the Library indicate that $725,527 was the actual figure. One could assume from that that in the 1976-77 Budget year the Queensland Government refused to fund the two refuges in that State and that perhaps that makes the difference between the $725,527 and the $900,000 which the Minister said in her statement would be utilised. In 1977-78 there was a dramatic increase of $1,424,850 in funding. For this financial year an appropriation of some $3m has been made. Once again, perhaps the Minister would care to advise us just how much of that $3m has been spent on refuges- how many extension or expansion programs have been conducted throughout Australia for the independent refuges. I am not referring to the church-backed refuges because I do not think that they face the same specific problem faced by independent refuges. 
-Because they have church backing. They have resources which the independent refuges do not have. The independent refuges are totally reliant upon the community. 
-Nevertheless, the churches do back them. If the honourable senator were to go to Centre Care in Western Australian and to Graceville she would find that their funds are raised in an entirely different manner from the way in which the funds of independent refuges are raised. 
That is right and that is the big difference. The funds are not raised by the people who are administering the refuges. That is normally done by a separate and distinct body of the organisation. But let us look at what Nardine provides with wages for seven full time workers. The refuge is open seven days a week and is available as a public service 24 hours a day; yet it receives wages for only seven full time staff. Part of the criteria which have been set down for Nardine which seems to be unique, is that that refuge has to have a full time bookkeeper. Why it would need a full time bookkeeper and whether that is a Federal Government or State Government provision I have no idea- I suspect it is a State Government provision. The other refuges seem to manage quite capably without one. But Nardine has one total salary out of seven taken up with providing a bookkeeper service at the refuge. 
The refuges provide an extremely wide range of services. They counsel women and their children. They provide them with assistance to find legal aid. Nardine especially, is visited by a number of doctors. That is very necessary. 
-That is right: they do it free of charge. I am not suggesting that those doctors make a charge; I am simply commending the refuge for being able to obtain the services of a doctor, whether those services be provided free of charge or even for a small fee, for some of the battered wives and battered children who have to attend or to use the services of a refuge. The refuges help with emergency housing, through the State Housing Commission. They assist with the obtaining of social security benefits and, perhaps just as importantlysometimes even more importantly- they demonstrate an awareness of the need of people in those crisis situations. They provide those people with loving and caring. Perhaps most of all, they provide them with understanding. The bulk of those voluntary workers are normally people who have used the services of a refuge before. They recognise that the refuges are overworked and understaffed and they provide the voluntary service. They do not expect payment for their services but it would be nice to think that they were able to expand the services which they want to provide to meet the need they see in the community. 
I want to make honourable senators aware now of the numbers of people who use or require the services of refuges- as I said, they are misnamed 'women's refuges'- in Western Australia. I have some very interesting figures. Later  Senator Melzer  will speak in this debate on the situation which pertains in Victoria and throughout Australia.  Senator Robertson  certainly will speak on the situation in the Northern Territory. I hope that the majority of honourable senators will be shocked at the enormity of the problem which exists in the Australian community. I hope that sufficient shock will be expressed for those people who are concerned to make sure that when the Budget talks are being held additional, guaranteed, adequate and continued funding are provided for women 's refuges throughout the nation. I point out that my figures relate to a relatively short period of the year- in fact, from January to April 1979. I remind honourable senators that 1979 is the International Year of the Child and that children are requiring the use of those refuges as much as women are. Many more children than women are in need of the services of the refuges. At one stage in Nardine the ratio of children to women has 4.1:1, which I think is quite horrific. These figures relate to all of the refuges operating in the metropolitan area and not just to the independent ones. 
At the Lucy Saw refuge in the four months between January and April this year 34 women and 59 children were accommodated and five women and 1 4 children were refused because of lack of accommodation. The Mary Smith refuge was able to take 35 women and 61 children, but 126 women and 230 children were turned away. Pretty close to five times as many people than this refuge was able to accommodate were turned away. The Ave Maria refuge accommodated 82 children and women in that same period, but it turned away 226 women and children. Warrawee managed to accommodate 76 women and 155 children, but it turned down 56 women and 82 children. Graceville accommodated 128 women and 222 children in four months but had to refuse 1 18 women and 262 children. Emmaus refuge- I will have a few words to say about this organisation lateraccepted 15 women and 28 children but rejected 4 1 women and 82 children. Nardine catered for 78 women and 190 children but was forced to turn away 32 women and 109 children. This is the situation just in Western Australia. However, whilst accommodation was found at women's refuges for a total of 1,163 women and children over a four-month period more than that number, or a total of 1,383 people, were turned away. 
What happens to those 1,383 people? I suppose one could say that these figures have been juggled to a certain extent because it does not necessarily apply that they would have been rejected only by one refuge. They may have been turned away from two or three refuges or perhaps even four or five because when a woman is in a crisis situation all she is intent on doing is finding accommodation for herself and her family. Therefore these figures could be exaggerated. Nevertheless the figures demonstrate there is a drastic need in society in this area. There is not one refuge that would not be able to tell members of this place absolutely heartbreaking stories about women with children who arrive in the middle of the night in battered physical condition and emotionally broken who are looking for some comfort, perhaps just a cup of tea and a shoulder to cry on to enable them to assess the situation. These women have to find out for themselves just what their actions will be in the future. They have to determine whether they will go back to a brutal and violent situation in their home or whether they will become human beings once again and move out into that great big world with the assistance of people at the refuge. The assistance given to women is another service that the refuges provide. It is a follow-up service. People who have used the refuge know that there are women at the refuge who care for them. They know that they can go back to the refuge and receive advice and help. They do not receive financial assistance because the refuges are not designed in that way. They receive the emotional assistance that is needed when a women with her children are suddenly turned loose on society. 
I think it takes a great deal of courage for women with family responsibilities suddenly to walk out of the matrimonial home. A women could walk out for a number of reasons. It could be because her husband is drunk and has come home in a violent mood. 
She may have driven him to drink. I am not going to set myself up as an arbiter on who was right and who was wrong.  Senator Sheil  may feel that he should play that role, but I certainly do not. I have seen women who have had their teeth broken, who have had bruises around their face and shoulders and possibly over their bodies, whose children have been battered and been taken to a refuge because it is a refuge for them. It is a haven. The Government has a responsibility to provide that haven. 
I am glad to hear  Senator Baume  say that. There is an acknowledgment from this side of the chamber certainly that there is a great need for the provision of more and more substantial services of this nature throughout the community. 
I had intended to speak about the situation pertaining particularly in Queensland and New South Wales. However, I will devote the remaining 10 minutes of my speech to Western Australia. I will detail some of the correspondence that I believe we have all received from various refuges and mention some of the criticism about refuges that has been made in this place. The situation with Emmaus is slightly different in that this organisation rented property from the Theosophical Society in north Perth. Possibly because of its geographic situation in the metropolitan area it found itself catering for the needs of a great number of Aboriginal women with their children. The other agencies take Aboriginal women and children. But one generally finds that people of that ethnic background will in actual fact gravitate to where they know there are other women who understand their specific problems. The situation with Emmaus became quite drastic because finding emergency accommodation in Western Australia for a woman with children who does not hold down a job is an extremely difficult proposition. It that woman happens to be black let me assure the Senate that it is impossible. There are still 1,000 Aboriginal families on the waiting list of the Housing Commission of Western Australia list, 800 of which to my personal knowledge have been there for the last three years. It is not the intention of the Western Australian Government or the State Housing Commission to cater for the drastic needs of the Aboriginal people. Therefore it will not be any easier for Aboriginal women to move out of a refuge into emergency housing. 
If a woman happens to be in a refuge, happens to be black and happens to have a number of children, that woman becomes a long term resident. As a result more problems are created for the refuge which cannot afford to have long term problems. Refuges have to cater for a certain percentage of the population. However, they cannot do so if women are taking up bed days. Earlier this year I wrote to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  when I learned that one woman with five children had occupied 158 bed days at the Emmaus refuge. Under the circumstances it is impossible for a refuge to continue to offer a service in the community. 
I said earlier that accommodation was available in the metropolitan area of Perth. We all know that accommodation is available in most of the major cities. However, this accommodation is not being fully utilised. It is certainly not being utilised for emergency housing for women in drastic situations. I am now extremely disturbed because I have been informed that $ 1.9m, which was appropriated in last year's Budget- the 1978-79 Budget- for two Queensland projects under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act will not be utilised this financial year. In actual fact I believe that that $1.9m is being returned to the Treasury. Perhaps when the Minister for Social Security follows me in this debate she could tell the Senate why this money could not be used to cater for the financial needs of some of the refuges of which I have spoken and to relieve the situation of refuges throughout Australia. If she reads her departmental publication entitled Know Your Social Services' put out earlier this year she will see that the claim is made that assistance is available to approved non-profit organisations and local government bodies to meet the costs of purchasing, constructing, altering or renting buildings for homeless people. There is nothing as homeless as a woman with children who has decided in an area of crisis that she has to leave her home in the middle of the night. I believe that that $1.9m could be utilised for the Queensland projects next year and that it could be included in the next appropriation papers which will come out in August. It is not something that cannot be repaid; it is something that can be utilised right now to relieve the situation that applies in all of the refuges. 
I think it is a bit unfortunate that women's refuges have been an area of little public awareness and therefore easily swept under the carpet. I believe this view is being reflected in some of the attitudes expressed by some of the States.  Senator Martin  and  Senator Bonner  will possibly agree that the situation pertains in their own State of Queensland. It certainly pertains in Western Australia. It is promulgated by such worthy organisations as the  Daily News  which in an article last Friday week, 18 May, twice referred to women's refuges as 'women's Refugees'. I am not terribly sure whether this newspaper is suggesting that women's refuges are to cater for the needs of women refugees who happen to come from some other country. But it certainly did not recognise that they are providing a community service. 
I will seek later to incorporate a number of articles in  Hansard.  But I read specifically two letters which have been sent to me, one from Lismore in New South Wales and one from the Lucy Saw Centre in Kwinana, Western Australia. I had hoped that I would be able to reply to criticism that was expressed by  Senator Harradine  and  Senator Walters  about the Tasmanian women's shelter, but I will leave the reply to that to either  Senator Melzer  or  Senator Robertson,  if they have time to do so. The letter from the Richmond Women's Emergency Service in Lismore is dated 1 5 April and states: 
Dear  Senator, 
I am writing on behalf of the women of the Richmond Women's Emergency Centre. We arc a regional refuge set up nine months ago to service an area covering Casino, Kyogle, Byron Bay. Ballina and Lismore. Since we commenced operating we have had a very great demand for our service and at any one time we would average six women and fifteen children accommodated at the refuge. 
We wish to acquaint you with some of our problems and ask that you pass these details on to your fellow members; especially because of the budget discussions that will soon begin in Federal Parliament. 
Our physical location is unsatisfactory as we are located on the flood plain. In the short time we have been operating we have had one flood alarm. 
The needs of children in our refuge are not catered for as wc have no member of staff involved in helping these children. We feel that this needs to be rectified and have, in our next budget application made provision for such a worker and expect this will alleviate the problem. In the International Year of the Child we hope the needs of the children in our refuge can be met in this regard. 
Accommodation in general in Lismore is in a drastic plight, let alone for a single woman with children. There is very little private accommodation available as this is in general taken up by the students from the Northern Rivers College of Advanced Education and because of the shortage rentals are very high and the cheapest places for rent are in flood areas. There is outright discrimination by real estate agents who prefer to rent to 'families' rather than single women with children. 
That is not an unusual circumstance. We meet that everywhere. Nevertheless, it creates additional strains on the centres. The letter continued: 
At present we are funded 75 per cent from funds made available through the Commonwealth Governments Community Health Programme and 25 per cent from the State Government. Because refuges are a very important humanitarian service, we feel that there should be no question about their continued existence nor about continuous funding and for this reason we feel that current budgeting on a recurrent basis is not satisfactory unless we can be given some guarantees that funding will not be cut at some future date. 
Would you please ask questions 'without notice' and 'with notice' in the house highlighting the problems of women's refuges in general and ours in particular. 
I hope that I have not done that only in regard to that refuge because I prefer to concentrate on the State I know- Western Australia. I can assure those women in Lismore that I am aware of their needs and that when I am in New South Wales I will visit them, if possible. In this Parliament questions have been asked and statements have been made by  Senator Harradine  and  Senator Walters  in which they were very critical of the women's shelter in Tasmania because of an advertisement that it had placed in a newspaper. I think that  Senator Harradine  commented that the shelter had no right to be political. Let me assure honourable senators on this side and on the Government side of the chamber that people working for a community service have to be political from the time that they get up in the morning until they go to bed at night, because their whole life is based on politics- the politics of whether a Federal government will give funding to the community service and whether a State government will make up the balance or how it is going to arrange to get, for example, the additional 12'/i per cent which is so desperately needed for the refuges in Western Australia. 
I return to the motion of urgency which I moved at the beginning of this debate. There is an urgent need for guaranteed, continued and adequate Federal Government funding for women's refuges throughout Australia. Members of the Opposition recognise that need and it is the responsibility of this Government to fill that need. 
Before I call  Senator Jessop,  I remind the Committee that the report was tabled this morning. A motion was moved that the Senate take note of that report. Appropriate time will be allowed for debate on it. I do not want to stifle debate, but I think it is wise to draw the attention of the Committee back to the subject under discussion, which is Group D. 
It was not my intention to detain the Senate when I discovered that we would be sitting past midnight, but I think honourable senators will bear with me when they hear the information I have to impart. It is a most important matter and not one that can be readily replied to by a Minister at Question Time. This afternoon I was given some information relating to a  Mr Alarico  Fernandes who, honourable senators might recall, was the Fretelin Minister for Information. He visited Australia in 1975 and returned to his country just prior to the Indonesian takeover of East Timor. He surrendered to the Indonesians some eight or nine months ago. The information I have received is that  Mr Fernandes,  some short time ago, having been in prison somewhere in Indonesia for the preceding eight or nine months, was bound hand and foot and taken in a helicopter and, as it was put to me, pushed out. 
Members of this Parliament have expressed concern on a number of occasions about what is happening in East Timor. It is not so long ago that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  went to Timor. On his return he stated that he had had satisfactory talks. Because of the information I have just given to the Senate, I am compelled to ask some questions of the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  who is in the cham ber at the moment. 
He went to Indonesia. I have to ask these questions,  Senator Kilgariff.  Did the Prime Minister, while in Indonesia, raise the matter of the concern that Australian people are expressing about what is happening in East Timor? Did he raise the subject, for instance, that people in Australia have expressed concern before now at the disappearance of former leaders? The information that I am giving is not that a person has been killed in a battle. It is a straight out brutal murder of a person who had surrendered. 
In East Timor. Obviously the honourable senator was not listening. I am saying that the former Minister for Information in the Timor Government,  Mr Alarico  Fernandes, has been murdered by the 
Indonesian Government. I am telling  Senator Walters  that this is not the first instance of such an occurrence. I am saying that information has been provided - 
I am not concerning myself tonight,  Senator Walters,  with any murders that you say have been committed in Russia or China. I am concerned at the horrific murder of a man who had surrendered to a government that had taken over his country. I want to know what Australia is doing about it. I want to know whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  was aware that this had happened. I want to know when the murder occurred. I want to know whether the Minister is aware of the allegations that other people have been murdered in a like manner. I want to know, for instance, whether Australia will express concern at the murder. 
I have to admit that the source of my information has to remain confidential. The person who has given me the information has relatives in Timor. I am sure that  Senator Teague  will understand why the source of my information has to remain confidential. 

 - Senator Teague, the information is being sought by the Minister to establish whether the Australian Government is aware that these allegations have been made, not just on this occasion about  Mr Alarico  Fernandes but on other occasions about other members of the Fretilin Government who are alleged to have been murdered in a like manner. We are talking about plain simple horrible murder. We are not talking, as I said earlier, about people who are killed in battle. We are talking about people who are deliberately bound hand and foot, taken up in helicopter and dropped. 
I suggest to  Senator Walters  that if she wants to discuss a situation that may be occurring in China or some place else she should raise it. I am raising this matter on the adjournment because I am sick in my stomach at the thought that a man who surrendered himself to a government that had taken over his country should be murdered in such a manner. I would express the same concern if it had happened in another country. We have had reports in this place that it has happened elsewhere. I do not believe we have ever had a report that it has happened in this same horrible manner. 
The Prime Minister went to Indonesia some time ago. When he returned he said that he had had satisfactory talks with the Government of Indonesia. I want to know whether in actual fact he raised the problems that Australian members of parliament have raised in this place in respect of East Timor; whether he raised the subject of what has happened, for instance, to those Fretilin leaders who have surrendered; whether he raised the problem of the reunification of families program on which the Indonesian Government has renegued. I want to know whether he asked any questions or expressed any concern about these matters. 
 I said earlier that the reason for my raising this matter on the adjournment is that sufficient or adequate time would not be available during Question Time for me to be provided with an answer. But because it is a matter of importance I think that the Minister for Science and the Environment, who is in charge of the House at the moment, should have it referred to the Department of Foreign Affairs tomorrow morning, at first light if necessary, and make sure that a reply is before the Senate preferably tomorrow or at the latest by Monday of next week when the Senate resumes after the weekend break. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Did the British Phosphate Commissioners on Christmas Island stand down 35 workers yesterday although there is no provision in the current agreement for stand-downs? Is it correct that when 16 of these workers reported for duty they were refused work and police were subsequently called to evict them? Will the Minister make urgent inquiries and, if these claims are correct, will he direct the British Phosphate Commission to stop this intimidatory behaviour? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I refer to the recent announcement that the Government intends to sell its share in the Ranger uranium mine. Will the Minister indicate who will then be responsible for the monitoring of safe working conditions at Ranger and who will be responsible for the safe storage and transportation of the product of the mine? 
I present the following petition from 34 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth that the construction of a uranium enrichment plant in North Queensland and the mining of uranium on the Herveys Range area should not be proceeded with on the following grounds: 
1 ) No safe method has yet been devised for the disposal of nuclear waste. 
The mining of uranium ore exposes workers to considerable danger from radon gases. 
The danger of poisoning chemicals seeping into surface and underground water supplies as a result of uranium ore mining and refining of uranium ore could pose serious health hazards for persons living in the Townsville region. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should take all possible steps to abandon or postpone indefinitely the mining of uranium in the Herveys Range area, and the construction of an enrichment plant in the Townsville region. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I refer to the Australian Government's decision to sell its share of the Ranger uranium project and the discussions which the Government has had with a number of companies concerning the sale. Without wishing to ask him to reveal any confidential information as to the price, et cetera, I ask: Under what terms and conditions is the Government offering its share of the uranium project to these companies? Specifically, is it proposed that the Government will receive a lump sum in full payment for its share of the project? 
I must admit that I really did believe that the Government was quite serious in its endeavour to get before the chamber an urgency motion which was not connected with the South Australian election. If we wanted any evidence to the contrary, we have just had it in  Senator Jessop  's speech. This motion has been brought on quite deliberately by Government senators from South Australia to somehow bring some credibility to, or improve the flagging support for their party in the forthcoming election in South Australia. It is perfectly obvious that it does not matter what a Federal member of parliament from South Australia does in this chamber in a debate on an urgency motion such as this as there is no way in which it could alter the course of the election on 15 September. The South Australian Labor Government will be returned with a larger majority than it has now and will thus be able to work much more effectively. 
However, I would like to speak to the urgency motion because it is a very important one. A number of the words used in the motion demand extremely careful scrutiny, both individually and collectively. For instance, reference is made to the moral obligation of Australia', which is coupled with 'commercial development' and uranium'. Therefore, honourable senators on this side of the chamber must decide whether Government senators are serious when they talk about our moral obligation to the commercial development of resources generally or only when they talk about the commercial development of uranium. I strongly suspect that the latter is the case. 
What we on this side of the House object to is the assertion, which seems constantly to come from the Government benches, that somehow this moral obligation embraces also the exploitation of our uranium mines. There are numerous ways in which the Government of this wealthy country could assist, in the words of the motion, 'an energy starved world' to overcome some of its problems. We could do that if we had the courage, the guts perhaps, to spend much more and to devote much more of our physical resources to researching other forms of energy, such as solar power. 
No, but we can export designs for the containment of solar energy, in case the honourable senator is not aware of that fact. I have obtained today, with the compliments of the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  some very interesting documents from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. They are extremely interesting and all relate to solar energy, but they are all inconclusive because we have as yet done nothing more than write documents and undertake small amounts of research. Since I have only 15 minutes in which to speak to this motion, it will be extremely difficult for me to cover comprehensively all of the areas that I wish to cover. I say that we do have a moral obligation to the energy starved world, that we can assist it if only we have the courage to provide the CSIRO with sufficient funds and physical resources to enable it to conduct comprehensive research into those other energy areas. 
Let us for a moment consider what this debate is really all about. The urgency motion speaks also of the 'commercial development of its abundant resources including uranium'. We have in this country ample supplies of a number of minerals. We have known gas, oil and coal reserves, yet there is in the motion nothing which indicates that we should be undertaking the commercial development of our abundant resources in those areas. The motion concentrates on uranium. We have heard already noises from the Premier in the north, in talking about the enrichment plant at Herveys Range. We have heard also noises from my own State of Western Australia, where the Premier has insisted that by 1990 there will be a nuclear energy station. However very few noises are being made about - 
How many jobs does the honourable senator say will be available? Will the honourable senator now say that the Fox report was wrong? Has the honourable senator read in the Fox report of the number of jobs that it was said would be available? I say to him: 'Do not talk rubbish'. If he has not read the 
Fox report, he should go away and study it comprehensively. 
I have here a document for incorporation in  Hansard.  I have already obtained the agreement of the  Deputy President  and the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  who earlier was in charge of the House. The document refers specifically to detailed comments concerning matters that were raised, by interjection, by such Government supporters as  Senator Collard,  who said that there had been no deaths in the nuclear energy industry. 
I ask the honourable senator: Is he questioning, for instance, the statistics that appear in the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute's Year Book of 1977? Is the honourable senator questioning, for instance, the figures given by  Mr  Higson  and  Mr  Crancher  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission in their paper of October 1 976? Is the honourable senator questioning, for instance, the statements of Robert Barker of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Department of  Tansportation  of the United States of America, in his summary before the Warren Committee hearings of November 1974? Is the honourable senator questioning newspaper reports that there have in actual fact been deaths in the nuclear energy industry, both here and in other countries? I now formally seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the document to which I have referred. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

SAFETY RECORD OF THE NUCLEAR POWER INDUSTRY ACCIDENTS, LEAKS, FAILURES AND INCIDENTS 
1952, 12th  December-NRX  Chalk River, Canada 
First major reactor accident. Human error. Technician opened three or Tour valves. Resultant heat release melted some of the uranium fuel, heat boiled some of the coolant. The reactor core was nearly demolished by the explosions, much radioactivity was emitted. (Source: Penelope Coleing for M.A.U.M., and in S. Novick 1955, November-Idaho Falls 
EBR-1 reactor had a partial core meltdown. The reactor was destroyed and much low level contamination ensued. (Source: Eco. atomic reactor safety hearings 1973 p. 56) 1957, October-Windscale No. 1. England 
Fire caused by human error. Defective procedure. Eleven tons of uranium ablaze released a vast cloud of radioisotopes from the melted fuel. Milk from an area of more than 500 square kilometres (approx. 2 million litres) was poured into the rivers and the sea as unsafe for human consumption. Farmers were compensated by the Government, but how people living near Windscale were affected is not known. Nor is it known how much radioactivity descended over 
Westmoreland and Cumberland. Local inhabitants say there is a high incidence of cancer deaths in the area, but the Government did not do any medical or statistical checks. Both Windscale reactors have since been filled with concrete and entombed. Report of inquiries into the safety was never published. (Source: Jean Geue A.A.E.C.; "Les Amis de la Terre" 1958-Ural Mountains, U.S.S.R. 
Explosion reported to have occurred in radioactive stockpile. Hundreds of square miles were left barren and unusable "for decades and maybe centuries". Hundreds of people died, thousands were injured and surrounding areas evacuated. (Source:  Dr Zhones  Medvedev and Professor Leo Tumerman- nuclear scientists. Reported in "The Australian" 9th December, 1976). 
Ural Mountains catastrophe was confirmed by published Soviet research into the effects of radioactivity on plants and animals by Prof. Leo Tumerman, former head of Biophysics Laboratory at the Institute of Molecular Biology in Moscow. ("Sydney Morning Herald"- 8th November, 1976, 12th November, 1976; "New Scientist "-30th June, 1977.) 1958, May-Chalk River, Canada 
NRU- irradiated fuel element broke and plant caught fire. Two months intense contamination. 400,000 square miles around the building were contaminated. (Sources: Penelope Coleing for M.A.U.M., Jean Geue A.A.E.C., Les Amis de la Terre) 1958, 18th October-Boris  Kidric  Institute, Vinca, Yugoslavia 
Nuclear reactor overheated. Six scientists were irradiated, transported to France for treatment 
* One death. (Sources: Work Circle Environmental Protection) Les Amis de la Terre) 1958-Los Alamos, U.S.A. 
* One death caused by radiation in the uranium enrichment plant. Plutonium had been allowed to accumulate inside a mixing vessel. (Source: World Health Organisation, 1961 and "Contingency Plan") 1958-Waltz Mill, U.S.A. 
Cooling system failed. (Source: World Health Organisation and "Contingency Plan") 1961-ldaho Falls, U.S.A. 
Reported as first MAJOR reactor accident in U.S.A. An explosion occurred, the cause of which is still not known. 
* Three men were killed instantly- their bodies were so severely irradiated that their exposed hands and heads had to be severed from their bodies and buried in a dump for radioactive waste. Took years to dissamble the wrecked plant and the burial ground will have to be guarded forever. Rescuers received high radiation doses. (Sources: Penelope Coleing for M.A.U.M., Les Amis de la Terre, Jean Geue A.A.E.C. ) 1962, 7th October -McMurdo Sound, Antarctica 
Flash hydrogen fire in the nuclear plant containment tanks. 1945-1963 According to the Austrian engineer Erich H. Schulz there were more than 1000 accidents in the nuclear industry between these years (Source: K. Thiemig) 1963, April-U.S.S. Thresher-Nuclear Submarine 
* Disappeared on a deep test dive; 1 12 navy men and 17 civilians on board. No-one knows what happened but the loss underlines the implications of substandard quality control in nuclear systems, both military and civil. There are an estimated 129 nuclear attack submarines and SSL submarines (those capable of launching ballistic missiles). The substandard quality of these submarines is borne out by the high number of accidents and incidents of nuclear submarines. 
Since 1 963 when the first mishap was reported there have been 32 accidents and incidents involving nuclear submarines up to October, 1976. "The dangers of nuclear submarines are incisive with horrific consequences. There are no evacuation plans for cities whose ports are used by these ships. There only needs to be one accident or malfunctioning while a nuclear submarine is in port and the consequences would be disastrous. Large resources are being used by the U.S. and U.S.S.R. in the development of anti-submarine warfare. 
When A.S.W. (Anti-Submarine Warfare) is perfected there would be, needless to say "an exceedingly dangerous development with respect for world security". (Source: S.I.P.R.l. Yearbook 1977, p. 6) 1951-1963-Nuclear Tests held at Nevada test site) 
*Martha B. Laird's husband and son developed leukaemia. Son died. Other children developed rashes. Sister reported burns to eyes. " During this time, our cows got white spots on them and developed cancer eyes".  Mrs Laird  wrote to the Government. "One letter came back saying I was Communistically inspired". Another said: "persons in fallout path 'were a small sacrifice' ". (The Herald, Tuesday, April, 24th, 1 979 ). 1963- Calder Hill Reactor, U.K. 
Turbine failure caused by failing to find pieces of steel shot which would have been visible to the naked eye in the steam lines. (Source: Charles Wakstein) 1964, February-Windscale, U.K. 
Leak of radioactive waste. (Source: Charles Wakstein) 1964- Shippingport, Pittsburgh, U.S.A. 
New steam generators were installed but the pipes to them could not carry the new load, so "hangers" were installed to hold the pipes. The hangers broke and fortunately a worker happened to notice the sagging pipes. If he had not been there and the reactor had started operation the worst Loss of Coolant Accident (L.O.C.A.) would have occurred. (Source: N. Thieberger) 1964- Wood River, U.S.A. 
*One death from radioactivity in the uranium enrichment plant. (Source: Work Circle Environmental Protection) 1965, September- Humboldt Bay Station, California 
High radioactivity. Fuel elements failed. Plant shut down to replace rods. Continued high radioactivity forced the company to run at 40% capacity. (Source: Les Amis de la Terre) 1965 - U.S. Public Health Department 
Evidence suggests excessive leukaemia deaths among Utah residents. Report shelved. 
*From 1950 to 1964, 28 leukaemia deaths in the South West Counties of the State of Utah. Only 19 cases of leukaemia would have been expected to occur among the 20,000 residents of the area. 
* 1 959 and 1 960. 7 people with acute leukaemia, 5 of them children and teenagers. ("West Australian" 10th January, 1979) 1965-Mol, Belgium 
Ferdinand Janssens, a Belgian physicist was irradiated and had to be taken to Curie Hospital in Paris for treatment. (Source: Jean Geue A.A.E.C.) 
According to "Contingency Plan" a worker's leg had to be amputated after exposure to radiation. 1966, 5th October- Lagoona Beach, Enrico Fermi (Fast Breeder) Reactor, Michigan, U.S.A. 
Partial meltdown. The reactor was successfully shut down. It took1½ years to work out the cause of the accident. Several pieces of sheet metal had broken off the bottom of the reactor vessel and were swept up in the coolant flow, causing a blockage. The reactor had been operating at 1 5% of full power and was afterwards de-commissioned. Four million people lived within a mile of the site. (Sources: Les Amis de la Terre, Penelope Coleing for M.A.U.M., Jean Geue A.A.E.C. ) 1967, 7th November- Grenoble, France 
Leak of 5 5, 000 curies (Iodine 131, cesium 138, rare gases) into the reactor pool and 2,000 curies into the atmosphere via the chimney. (Source: La Guele Overte, April, 1974) 1968-Elk River, U.S.A. 
Emission of high levels of radioactivity from leak in the primary circuit. Reactor had to be closed down. (Source: Contingency Plan 'Work Circle Environmental Protection') 1968, January, Chooz Reactor, Belgium 
Serious accident occurred at the Franco-Belge reactor in the Ardennes. It took two years and two months to repair. (Source: Bulletin A.T.E.M.) 1968-La Crosse, U.S.A. 
Failure of control system. Reactor had to be closed down. (Source: Contingency Plan 'Work Circle Environmental Protection') 1968, February -San Clemente, U.S.A. 

 Major cable fire. Failure of shutdown equipment at Edison's San Onofra Plant ( Westinghouse). (Source: Penelope Coleing for M.A.U.M. OP.CIT.) 1968, March-San Clemente, U.S.A. 
Another major cable fire. Shutdown equipment failed at Edison 's San Onofra Plant ( Westinghouse ). (Source: N. Thieberger) 1968, 2nd-3rd October-The Hague (On the Channel) France 
Leak of 18 curies per second iodine 131 from UP 2 reprocessing plant. (Source: Les Amis de la Terre) 
1945-1968 
"Ten workers died as a result of over exposure to radiation from experimental reactors or in laboratory work connected with the development of nuclear power". (Source: D. Higson and D. W. Crancher Australian Atomic Energy Commission ) 1969 Irish Sea 
Leak of plutonium (Source: C. Wakstein) 1969, 21st January- Lycens Reactor, Switzerland. 
Partial meltdown of reactor core. Release of radioactivity, reactor destroyed. Reactor was in a rock cavern and has been converted into storage area for waste disposal. (Source: Penelope Coleing for M.A.U.M.) 1969- Gundremmingen, West Germany 
Repeated ruptures in the vanes of the turbines became worse due to radioactivity and eventually broke. (Source: Bulletin A.T.E.M.) 1969, 17th October-Saint Laurent-Des-Eaux, France 
Fuel meltdown in reactor core. Repairs took three months. (Source: Bulletin Info.CEANo. 157, March 1971) 1969- Lingen, Federal Republic of Germany 
Leak in the primary circuit. Effluent was discharged into the River Ems resulting in a radioactivity level 1 3 times over and above the permitted annual quantity. (Source: Contingency Plan) 1969- Bradwell Nuclear Power Station Hinkley Point Nuclear Power Station Dungeness Nuclear Power Station Sizewell Nuclear Power Station Oldsbury Nuclear Power Station Trawsfyndd, U.K. Nuclear Power Station 
Cracks occurred in the main cooling conduits of all the above reactors. 1969,11th May-Rocky Flats, Colorado, U.S.A. 
Plutonium spontaneously ignited in a container of nearly 600 tons of combustible material; the fire burned 2000 kilograms of plutonium (a microgram of which can be toxic), giving off plutonium oxide, and caused a further $45 million damage. Soil samples taken from around the plant were contaminated with plutonium. (Private investigation by Or Edward Martell was necessary because the Atomic Energy Commission, which owned the plant, and Dow Chemicals, which operated it under contract, refused to do sampling in the area). (Source: N. Thieberger Op. Cit. Pg. 3 ) 1969- Geona Plant, Wisconsin, U.S.A. 
Employees at the plant became concerned at the high level of radioactivity in their drinking water fountains. Investigations uncovered a hose connecting the drinking water system to a tank of radioactive waste. The AEC concluded "the coupling of a contaminated system with a potable water system is considered poor practice in general ' '. (Source: "Rolling Stone" (Aust) 28th July, 1977.) 1970- Windscale U.K. 
Criticality accident. Uncontrolled release of radiation caused by neglect of an accumulation of plutonium in a vessel. Engineers did not know there was any plutonium residue in the vessel as the reactor did not have neutron monitoring devices. (Source: C. Wakstein p. 2 12) 1970-Beznau, C.S.R. 10 workers exposed to radioactivity. (Source: Work Circle Environmental Protection) 1970, 3rd April -Pennsylvania, U.S.A. 
Strontium 90 in the soil at the edge of the site of the Shippingport nuclear reactor (claimed to be the safest in the U.S.) reached a level 100 times greater than the national average. The radioactivity in milk was 4 times greater. (Source: N. Thieberger Op. Cit. p. 4) 1970, May-Indian Point, U.S.A. 
Reactor had a major plumbing problem which required the use of 700 men (for a few minutes each) over a 7-month period to weld in the radioactive area. (Source: Les Amis de la Terre L'escroquerie nucteaire 1970,5th June-Dresden 2, Illinois, U.S.A. 
A spurious signal started off an incredible series of mistakes by both technicians and equipment. The reactor was out of control for 2 hours, pressure built up inside until it released radioactive iodine 131 to 100 times the safe limit to the dry well. Kendall Moglewer preliminary review of the AEC reactor safety study. Moss 1974. According to  Dr Sternglass  of the University of Pittsburgh, 2,500 babies would die because their parents lived downwind of the plant. (Sources: Work Circle Environmental Protection; Jean Geue A.A.E.C.) 1970, September -France 
Captain Jacques Cousteau, speaking to the Council of Europe, said of the barrels of waste lying at the bottom of the sea "they have been photographed lying open yawning like oysters". (Source: Thieberger p. 4) 1970, 7th-1 1th September, France 
At the symposium of the International Atomic Energy Agency it was revealed that reprocessing plants 'lost' through liquid and solid discharges, 1.5% of the materials they process. It was also stated that a nuclear power plant diffuses 30 curies of radioactivity per megawatt per year into the atmosphere. (Source: Thieberger p. 5) 1970, 30th September-Hanford Reactor, U.S.A. 
A loss of coolant automatically started the primary SCRAM system (SCRAM is the rapid reinsertion of control rods). The system failed due to a short circuit. The backup SCRAM system worked. General Electric calculated that the probability of a failure in SCRAM was one in ten billion (10'°); the actual rate so far has been one in ten thousand ( 10'). Past accidents at Hanford occurred on 3rd October, 1954, 4th January, 1955, 6th January, 1966. (Source: Jean Geue A.A.E.C.) 1970, 18th October-Wylfa, U.K. 
The plant was stopped after a power excursion accident, potentially more dangerous than a loss of coolant ( LOCA) (Sources: Nous allons tous Crever, J. Pignero, 1st April, 1 974; Les Amis de la Terre ) 1971, August-Muehlenberg, Switzerland 
Fire at the nuclear plant quickly put under control. (Source: Journal of Geneva 25th August, 1 97 1 ) 1971, August-The Gulf of Gascone 4,000 tonnes of radioactive wastes dumped in the Gulf. (Source: Thieberger p. 5) 1971, 10th October-Bugey, France 
Fire under the control room just before the reactor was put into service. (Source: 'Le Monde' 12th October, 1971) 1971, December-U.S.A. 
A box of radioactive salts of Molybdenum 99 was being carried on a Delta Airlines plane when it began to leak. The leak was not discovered until 9 flights later. Enough radiation escaped to cause "some worries" to the AEC. (Source: Thiebergerp. 5)  1971, 10th December-The Hague (On the Channel) France 
Rupture of the pipes carrying radioactive materials, contamination of the pool and drinking water at the plant. 150 separate leaks into the centre occurred. Work periods of 3 minutes were instituted for the welders due to the strong radioactivity of the centre. (Source: Rayonnement, a paper of the CFDT CEA, July, 1972). 1971- Beznau, Switzerland 
Fuel rods underwent swelling at Westinghouse reactor; each of the rods was supposed to have been filled with enriched uranium oxide. A number of the spent rods were found to be empty near the top for a space of several inches. (Source: N. Thieberger p. 5) 1 971 -Dresden 3, U.S.A. 
Failure of pressure control system, excessive pressure built up in safety compartment. (Source: Work Circle Environmental Protection) 1971, Mid year-Clinton, Tennessee, U.S.A. 
The manufacturer of sealed radioactive sources abandoned a plant site leaving a significantly contaminated area. The cost of decontamination fell, by default, on the Federal and State Governments. (Source: "A Landscape of Nuclear Tombs "Alexis Parks) 1972, 8th March-Indian Point, U.S.A. 
Pressures in the primary cooling circuit increased by 30%. Water released subsequently killed 150,000 fish in the Hudson River. 
Studies in the U.S. have shown that there is a slight increase in radiation levels in rabbits and fish around all sites in the U.S. (Source: "New York Times" 16th June, 1974) 1972, April- Wuergassen, West Germany 
Pressure relief valve opened and stuck. Steam poured out and destroyed reinforcement structures. Important reactor control instruments failed to function and about1050 tonnes of radioactive water flowed into the River Weser. 
After months of repair the plant re-opened only to close down again in February, 1 973, and again in February, 1 974. (Source: Lebensschutz, April, 1974) 1972, April- Ginna Reactor, Ontario 
The Westinghouse-designed and fuelled reactor contained 2,000 fuel rods, 40% of which were bent or crushed. (Source: N. Thieberger Op. Cit. p. 5) 1972, June- Mihama, Unit 1, Japan 1,900 out of 8,800 pipes of the steam generator were damaged. (Source: N. Thiebergerp. 5) 1972, 14th June-Holland 
A Dutch fisherman found a metal barrel with the words highly radioactive' printed on it, just off the coast of Holland. (Source: N. Thiebergerp. 5) 1972, July-Saclay E1-3, France 
In this reactor there were two gates through which radioactive waste and normal wastes would pass. One would go into a special container, the other went straight into the drains. After the emptying of more than ten cubic metres of radioactive liquids, the special container was still empty. The reason was that the gate leading to it was still closed while the other one, the one leading to the normal drain system was open . . . (Source: N. Thieberger p. 5 ) 1972- Gundreminngen, Republic of Germany 
Sediments in reactor core prevented circulation of cooling water. (Source: Work Circle Environmental Protection) 1972-Obrigheim, Federal Republic of Germany 
Radioactive contamination when container of radioactive effluent burst. Several source faults detected. (Source: 'Contingency Plan' Work Circle Environmental Protection) 1972-Surry 1, U.S.A. 
* Two deaths due to failure of a valve. Investigation detected more than 500 faulty welding spots. (Sources: Work Circle Environmental Protection) "Not Man Apart", Sept. 1972) 1972, September-Millstone 1, Reactor, U.S.A. 
The 40,000 condensor tubes were made of aluminium alloy, they corroded, allowing sea water into the cooling system. (Source: Jean Geue A.A.E.C.) "Boston Globe" 14th October, 1974. 1972, 7th November-Turkey Point 3, U.S.A. 
Switch gear room of the reactor flooded due to plugged drains. (Source: N. Thieberger Op. Cit. P. 6) 1972, 23rd November-U.S.A. 
A hijacked DC-9 circled Oak Ridge nuclear installation for 2 hours. Hijackers demanded $10 million. Oak Ridge was shut down and most staff evacuated. Hijackers demands were met and they flew to Cuba. (Source: Thiebergerp. 6) 1972, 8th December-Annecy, France 
Fire in the SICN plant which produces nuclear fuel. A further explosion and fire occurred on 22nd December and a fire on 9th October, 1973. (SICN = Societe Industrielle de Combustible Nucleaire) (Source: Jean Geue A.A.E.C.) 1972, 14th December- Dounreay, Scotland 
Anonymous telephone call alerted security staff who found two parcels in the plant. 1500 staff members were evacuated. Parcels were empty but could have been bombs. (Source: Thieberger p. 6) 1972, 21st December- Perpignan, France 
Children found playing with boxes containing Strontium 90 which they found in a field near the local airport. (Source: Jean Geue A.A.E.C. ) 1973, 15th January-Vernon, Vermont, U.S.A. 
Vermont Yankee reactor gave off 100 times the safe limit of radiation caused by cracks in tubes carrying radioactive material. At one stage Vermont Yankee's plant control rods were put in upside down and the plant later started operating with the lid off the pressure vessel. "Times Record "23 April 1974. 1973, January  -Chooz.  Belgium 
Radioactive elements from the nuclear plant entered the River Meuse near Vise. Water remained abnormally radioactive for about 6 months. "La Nouvelle Republique" 10th January, 1973 1973, 16th February-Holland 
Container of Cobalt 60 lost in the sea north of the Island of Ulieland (Source: Thieberger p. 10) 1973, 26th March- Argentina 
Guerilla entered a nuclear reactor and initially were happy painting slogans but when they eventually left they threw a phosphorous bomb which fortunately was extinguished by firemen before it destroyed the whole plant. (Source: Thieberger p. 10) 1973-  -Lingen  Federal Republic of Germany 
Serious damage to steam generators. Took one year to repair only to be replaced two years later with new generators. (Source: Work Circle Environmental Protection) 1973-Wuergassen, Federal Republic of Germany 
Cracks on two cooling system, potentially catastrophic as complete failure of cooling system could have occurred. Cracks discovered by accident. (Source: Work Circle Environmental Protection) 1973, 17th April-Millstone 1, Connecticut, U.S.A. 
Numerous cracks were discovered in the pipes of the cooling system. Radioactive mist escaped and activated radiation alarms on nuclear submarines docked at Waterford. "Wall Street Journal "3rd May, 1973 1973, 20th April, Hanford, U.S.A. 100,000,000 gallons of atomic wastes stored in containers whose life is 30-40 years. A leak was discovered on 20th April but wastes were still poured into the tanks, resulting in a leakage of 1 15,000 gallons before June 8th when pouring stopped. Geologists point out that the area has been under water at least 4 times in the last 40,000 years, the last time being 1 4,000 years ago. (Source: Work Circle Environmental Protection and Penelope Coeling 1973, June-Hanford, U.S.A. 
A further 460,000 litres of radioactive liquid spread on the ground surrounding the reprocessing plant. " Los Angeles Times " 5th July, 1 973. 1973,July-U.S.A. 
According to the A.E.C. cover reactors had been closed down or abandoned (costing millions and millions of dollars) as well as 77 research or experimental reactors, and the only nuclear cargo ship the "Savannah ". Four nuclear submarines were dismantled or 'lost'. (Source: Thieberger p. 7) 1973-New Jersey, U.S.A. 
EDWARD GLEASON, a New Jersey truck dock worker accidentally spilled plutonium on himself while handling a leaking box of liquid waste in 1963. Four years later his hand, then his arm and shoulder were amputated because of a rare form of cancer, from which he died in 1 973, aged 39. The company responsible refused to pay him compensation before he died. (Source: Thieberger p. 7) 1973, September -The Hague (On the Channel) France 
Radioactive gas escapes, 35 employees contaminated, 7 seriously. "Us Echos' 24th September, 1973. 
According to "Time" magazine, the crabs in the Channel have developed strange ulcerous sores. Radiation level in the crabs in 1 975 rose to eight times the normal level. (Source: Jean Geue A.A.E.C.) 
1973-U.S.S.R. 
Sodium leak and chemical explosion in the secondary cooling system of the reactor. "Le Monde" 15th February, 1974. 1973,  September-Mihama  Plant, Japan 
Fuel damage was discovered, bowing of the rods was not eliminated; similar to Westinghouse reactor problems at Robinson Point and Point Beach Island. (Source: Thieberger p. 7) 1973, September-Windscale, U.K. 
Radiation leak in the reprocessing plant; 34 workers were irradiated. (Source: Jean Geue A.A.E.C.) 1973, 12th October-U.S.A. 
Congress investigation committee told by  Senator Mike  Gravel that emergency cooling systems had failed six times out of six when tested in 1 970. He also told of the discovery of high concentrations of Strontium 90 near the Shippingport reactor in 1972. (Source: Thieberger p. 7) 1973, 22nd October-San  Onofre,  U.S.A. 
Malfunction of turbine generator led to shutdown of reactor. Increased vibration led operators to shut down faster than normal, causing overheating; this in turn activated the primary coolant system which caused a drop in pressure, normally indicating a blocked coolant pipe. The emergency system cut in and flooded the reactor with cooling water which hit the valves with too much force since the coolant was already there; pipes broke and six months were needed to repair the damage. "The Observer" 2nd December, 1973. 1973, 14th November -Hanford, U.S.A. 35,000 litres of radioactive waste leak. Jackrabbits in the area excrete radioactive 'hot' pellets and coyotes which eat the rabbits die of radiation poisoning. By the end of 1977 half a million gallons of wastes had been leaked from the Hanford site. (Source: Les Amis de la Terre) 1973, 28th November-U.K. 
Wives of employees at Britain's nuclear installations started a 'love strike', fearing radiation sickness. Nearly all 2,000 employees at Windscale atomic centre were affected. Union delegate, John Nuctor, said that "the young women had told him they refused to have any intimate contact with their husbands because their sweat might radioactively contaminate the linen". (Source: Thieberger p. 8) 
1973U.S.A. 
86 1 incidents were reported in U.S. nuclear power plants. (Source: D. Higson and D. W. Crancher, Australian Atomic Energy Commission) 1974-Big Rock, Michigan, U.S.A. 
Charlevoix County in Michigan has an infant mortality rate of 44% higher than national average. Immature infant deaths are 18% higher. Leukaemia is 400% higher. Cancer deaths arc 15% more numerous than national average. Congenital defects 230% higher. Charlevoix County is the home of the Big Rock Point nuclear power plant. The above diseases were not caused by an accident; no insurance company or corporation will acknowledge a link between the plant and outside sicknesses. These figures and others show that nuclear reactors are health hazards even when operating normally. (See Mary Weik 1964). 1974, 23rd January -Cherbourg 
An appeal sent out by radio "Urgent notice for navigators from Cherbourg- Blue container, two metres long, containing radioactive material is lost in the North Sea 56° 36' N, 000° 55 ' East. In case of discovery do not open, and immediately inform Aberdeen Coastguard ". (Source: Thieberger p. 8) 1974, 24th January -Washington, U.S.A. 
Released today that Or Carl Walski told a Parliamentary subcommittee in May and June 1973 that 3,700 people who had had access to nuclear arms had been sacked during 1973/74 for reasons such as alcoholism, abuse of narcotics, or mental illness. (Source: Thiebergerp. 8) 1974, February-Australia 
The annual incidence of leukaemia in Australia has increased from just under 2 cases per million in 1930 to 57 cases per million in 1970. (Source: "Atmospheric testing, a survey of medical statistics in Australia " by Bruce J. Brown). 1974-Kerr McGee Nuclear Plant, New York 
Woman contaminated by plutonium. Karen Silkwood had gathered evidence on the unsafe working conditions at the plant and was on her way to deliver these to a newspaper reporter and a union official when she died in mysterious circumstances. "West Australian" 22nd May, 1979. 1974, February 
The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists quoted the following incidents: "In August, 1971 an intruder penetrated past guard towers and fences to enter the grounds of the Vermont Yankee nuclear plant at Vernon, Vermont" and "In November, 1971 arson caused $5-10 million damage at the Indian Point No. 2 plant at Buchanan, New York". 1974-Niedereichbah, West Germany 
A Siemens experimental reactor was abandoned due to insurmountable problems. Cost was approx. $A66 million. (Source: Work Circle Environmental Protection) 1974, February- Wurgassen, Germany 
Violent vibrations in the turbines cause most of the vanes to break off. Repairs cost $A93,000 per day. "Lebensschutz" April, 1974 1974, 14th March -Hanford, U.S.A. 
Leak of 1 15,000 gallons of highly radioactive waste for 1 7th time. Defective storage tank. (Source: Penelope Coeling M.A.U.M.) 1974, 6th April-U.S.A. 
Northern States Power Company reactor dumped 10,000 gallons of radioactive water into the Mississippi River causing Minneapolis to close its water intake gates. 
From 1969-74 the AEC made a total of 10,320 inspections and found 3,704 installations with one or more violations (but imposed civil penalties or some other saction a total of only 22 times!) "New York Times" August 26th, 1974. 1974 analysis "indicating the industry can anticipate a probable accident involving radioactive material in 1975 and perhaps as many as one per month in 2000". (Donald E. Reardon, Deputy Manager ERDA, SF office, at Warren Committee hearing in November, 1 975 ). 1974, 2nd May- Savannah River, South Carolina 
A radioactive cloud of Tritium formed after a leak in a pipe at nuclear reactor. "Le Monde" 5th June, 1974. 1974, 3rd-4th May -Hanford, U.S.A. 1900 to 7600 litres of liquid radioactive waste containing 600-24- curies of Cesium 137 and 10-40- curies of Strontium 90 leaked from underground storage tank No. 1 1 1 which is forty metres above the water table. (Source: Penelope Coeling p. 4, Thieberger p. 4) 1974, May-India 
Police arrested 5 members of the personnel of a uranium enrichment plant and discovered 3.6 kilos of uranium. Enquiries revealed a gang which stole uranium, transported it through Nepal to eventually end up in Hong Kong. (Source: Thiebergerp. 9) 1974, 28th May-U.S.A. 
The U.S. AEC said that there were 861 irregularities in the industry in 1973 in the 42 reactors which were working. Of those, 371 had some potential of being hazardous, 18 really were, 12 actually leaked radioactivity to the atmosphere. (Source: Les Amis De La Terre) 1974, May-Miamisburg, Ohio, U.S.A. 
AEC laboratory leaks plutonium and contaminates the Erie Canal. "Boston Globe" 14th May, 1974. 1974, 1 1th July-Quad Cities, Illinois, U.S.A. 
Radioactive vapour escaped after a valve on the primary circuit ruptured. Reactor had been working at 25% capacity. "Chicago Sun Times" 11th July, 1974. 1974, August- Grenoble Isere, France 
Leak into the reactor pool of 2,500 curies. "Le Monde" 29th September, 1974. 1974, August- ANS Matsu, Japan 
The crew of this nuclear cargo vessel discovered a leak in pipes carrying radioactive material after leaving Japan. Because of the potential danger they were unable to re-enter Japanese waters. Operators used borated boiled rice and old socks to try to block the leak. (Source Les Amis De La Terre L'Escroquerie Nucteaire Patterson pg. 213) 1974, 3rd September-Los Alamos, New Mexico, U.S.A. 1900 to 3800 litres of radioactive liquid escaped into the enviroment on to one of the main streets and into a parking lot. The area was closed  off,  parts of the road were replaced. 
Past accidents at Los Alamos occurred on 2 1st August, 194S, 25th May, 1946, 30th December, 1958. (Source: Thieberger p. 1 1 ) 1974, September and December- Illinois and Connecticut, U.S.A. 
A crack about 7.6 cms long was discovered at the Dresden Plant in Norris. As a result of this discovery some sixty others were found. Plants of similar type were investigated (Millstone, Quad-Cities, Dresden 2) and two Japanese facilities were found to have experienced the same problem. (Source: Thieberger IBID) 1974, 19th September -Ringhals, Sweden 
Three pumps of the primary cooling system broke down. Reactor had to work at 30% capacity after the accident. "Not Man Apart " mid- 1 974. 1974, 18th October-Con Edison Tri-Cities Plant 
Radioactive gas released, exceeding the AEC limit by 33%. 
In 4,000 shipments of radioactive fuel in 1975, 400 reported accidents occurred in which 150 released "small amounts" of radioactivity, two "potentially dangerous". 
Robert Barker, NRC, Dept. of Transportation, in his summary of WASH 1238 at Warren Committee hearings in November, 1975. 1974, 10th November- Saint Laurent Des  Eaux,  France 
Fire in an electrical panel of the SL 2 reactor. Reactor shutdown and not allowed to run at full capacity. "Journal du dimanche" 10th November, 1974. 1974, 23rd November-  -Saclay,  France 
Chemical explosion occurred during the cleaning of pipes at the Osiris reactor injuring 6 people, no radioactive leak. "Le Figaro 24th November, 1974 1974, 24th December-Michigan, U.S.A. 
Pallisades reactor taken out of service after leaks in 7,000 out of the 1 4,000 tubes in condenser were discovered. (Source: Thieberger p. 1 1 ) 1975-Oklahoma, U.S.A. "Plutonium poisoning of workers in enrichment plant. Chief witness died in mysterious circumstances. (Source: Work Circle Environmental Protection) 1975-Brown's Ferry, Alabama, U.S.A. 
Fire in plant caused by electrician checking for air flow with candle. Destruction of 2,000 cables, emergency core cooling system, reactor core isolation cooling system hand all important regulators and emergency cooling system. Only chance that prevented the melting of the 1 100 megawatt reactor. Out of service for I  W  hours. (Source: Work Circle Environmental Protection) 1975-  -Gundermmingen,  Federal Republic of Germany 
* Two deaths followed leak of 800 litres of radioactive steam during vent repairs. (Source: Work Circle Environmental Protection) 1975 6th June-Zion, U.S.A. 15,000 gallons of radioactive water leaked from cooling system into reactor containment building. NRC blamed the leak on open valve caused by failure to observe proper procedures. (Source: Penelope Coeling) 1975 8th January-  -Mihama,  Japan 
Leak in pipes of steam generator of the Mihama 2 reactor ( 500 megawatts) caused radioactive gases to escape. (Sources, " Nuclear News ' ' March 1975 Patterson p. 2 1 3 ) 1975 27th March-Waterford, Connecticut 
Nearly 1,200 workers had to be evacuated from the Northwest Utilities Nuclear Plant because of a radioactive water spill. Some of the contaminated water entered Long Island Sound. 20 workers had to wade through 4,000 litres of spilt radioactive water to safety. (Source: Penelope Coleing. Work Circle Environmental Protection) 
1974-75-U.S.A. 
Over a one-year period 15-20 nuclear reactor power stations had to be closed by the NRC due to cracks in the water cooling system. (Source: Work Circle Environmental Protection) 1976 12th January-U.S.A. 
Six drums containing radioactive waste burst open after they rolled off tractor-trailer trucks in Ashfield, Kentucky, U.S.A. Two drivers were slightly injured. When the highway was cleaned checks indicated radioactivity. (Source: Legislative Research Service, Parliamentary Library, Canberra) 1976 January-Windscale, U.K. 
Leak of radioactive waste in storage tank caused by corrosion. (Source: Parliamentary Research Service, Parliamentary Library, Canberra) 1976, April-Windscale, U.K. 
Leak of active waste from still drums caused by corrosion. (Source: Parliamentary Legislative Research Service) 1976, July-Vermont Yankee Plant, U.S.A. 
Faulty valve caused 300,000 litres of radioactive water to spill into the Connecticut River. (Source: Thieberger p. 12) 1976, October-Windscale, U.K. 100 gallons per day of contaminated water leaking from an old waste storage silo. This incident was not reported to the Government for two months, and eventually set off the Windscale Public Inquiry. (Source: Parliamentary Legislative Research Service) 1976, December-Windscale, U.K. 
Leak of radioactive waste. Beach contaminated by titium (Source: Parliamentary Legislative Research Service) 1976-Maxey Flats, Kentucky, U.S.A. 
Plutonium dumped in unlined trenches, travelled 800 feet through soil in less than ten years. (Source: Thieberger p. 12) 1977, April-Windscale, U.K. 
Site and adjacent area contaminated by ruthenium 106. 
Paper: Legislative Research Service, Parliamentary Library, Canberra. 1977, 26th April-Windscale, U.K. 
Plutonium contamination blown into laboratory after a reaction between plutonium nitrate and carbon powder in a sealed handling facility. (Source: Thieberger p. 12 and Parliamentary Research Service) 1977, April- Australia 
*Australia's first victim died as a result of being exposed to radiation at AEC's nuclear reactor at Lucas Heights. The man contacted leukaemia. The AEC admitted liability by paying compensation to man's widow. Two years before the death workers had complained of a health problem which they thought was related to their work with epoxies. "Sun Herald "19 June, 1977. 1977, 10th May-Dounreay, Scotland 
A reaction between water and 2.5 kilos of sodium lifted the concrete covers off a solid waste disposal facility. (Source: Thieberger, p. 12) 1977, May-Winchester, U.K. 
Semi-trailer carrying a 15-tonne container of radioactive nuclear fuel overturned near Winchester. Five people injured. 
Paper: Legislative Research Service, Parliamentary Library, Canberra. 1977, 7th October-Colorado, U.S.A. 
Nuclear alert declared near Springfield after 19 tonnes of powdered uranium-oxide fell from the back of a truck after an accident. The material was being transported from Wyoming to Oklahoma for processing. Colorado State Department later urged the NRC to review its safety standards. 
Department spokesman said: "Luckily no other traffic came along. If cars had churned through the powder we could have been faced with a major crisis." "West Australian ' ' 7th October, 1 977 1977, November- Pierrelate, France 
Highly toxic gas leaked into the air from a commercial uranium fuels factory. No-one was contaminated and the situation quickly controlled. The leak of uranium hexafluoride occurred at the Comurex Factory where a similar accident took place in July. "The Herald "26 November, 1977. 1977, December- Maralinga, Australia 
*Four Commonwealth Policemen died of cancer after working at the atomic bomb test site. Another two are dying of the disease. (Source: Thiebergerp. 13) 1977, December -Millstone, U.S.A. 
Two hydrogen/oxygen explosions in the waste radioactive gas stream at Millstone Nuclear Power Station, Waterford, Connecticut, U.S.A. Chimney door blew off. One worker slightly injured and helpers contaminated with radioactivity. Reactor completely shut down. (Source: Parliamentary Legislative Research Service) 1977-Vallecitos, California, U.S.A. 
General Electric's small reactor closed because Federal officials found seismic fault near the plant. "Financial Review"28th February, 1979. 1978, 23rd January -Colorado, U.S.A. 
Newly built reactor belches radioactive helium gas into the sky only 56 kms from Denver, Colorado. Fifteen workers suffered "light contamination ". Reactor shut down. "The Herald "24th January, 1978. 1978, 25th January-Brussels, Tihange, Belgium 
Contamination of up to 80 people by iodine 131 while the reactor was being cooled for replacement of fuel. Another accident occurred in mid-June 1978. 
Source: World Information Service on Energy, Brussels. 1978, 14th February- Munich, West Germany 
Small amount of radioactive steam escaped from a nuclear plant being tested in Bavaria. "The Age" 15th February, 1978. 1978 April-India 
It was revealed that a CIA electronic spy-station was destroyed in an avalanche. It contained 1.3 kg. of a plutonium isotope. The station had been placed on Nanda Devi, a mountain of the Himalayas to spry on Chinese missile bases. The Nanda Deve snow waters run into the River Ganges, and so plutonium may be washed down to the millions of people who bathe, wash and drink using the water of the Ganges. "The Australian" 12th April 1978 1978 19 June-Brunsbuttle, West Germany 
Reactor steam circuit broke. The security system either failed to work or was put out of action manually and at least 100 tons of radioactive steam escaped. News of the accident got out through an anonymous phone call. Later measurements indicated some 4000 curies of radioactive inert gases escaped (against a yearly authorised level of 3500). (Source: ABC Radio News 25th June 1978) 1978 26 August -Titan II Nuclear Base, Kansas, U.S.A. 
*One man was killed and six injured when deadly fumes leaked from an intercontinental ballistic missile which was being filled with propellant. When the accident was reported gas was still leaking, forcing the evacuation of residents of Udall and Rock. Reaction to the gas can range from mild to severe irritation to the eyes, ears, nose, throat and skin to severe burns and death. 
The accident would have resulted in a nuclear explosion of the missile had it been carrying it's nuclear warhead. (Source: "The West Australian " 26th August 1978 1978 28 August-Aldermaston, U.K. 
Britain's main nuclear research station was closed when twelve workers were contaminated with plutonium dust. Unions of the workers believed the plutonium dust may have leaked through the plant's ventilation system. "West Australian " 26th August 1 978 1978 September To Kai-Mura Japan 
Japan's nuclear reprocessing plant at To Kai-Mura closed because of leakage of radioactive waste. 
Legislative Research Service, Parliamentary Library, Canberra 
Idaho Falls U.S.A. 
Plutonium waste dug up after seven years because it was leaking from the barrels in which it had been buried, causing a threat to the water supply. 
Penelope Coleing for M.A.U.M. 1979 February-U.K. 
British dockyard workers exposed to radiation while working on nuclear submarines show a greater than normal incidence of damaged chromosomes. These results are based on a ten year study. The greater the radiation dose the worker received the greater the number of cells showing chromosome damage. Damage occurs even when radiation exposures are below internationally agreed safety standards. (Source: "New Scientist" 15th February 1979) 1979 27 March-South Korea 
South Korea's only nuclear reactor at Kari (near Pusan) closed because of leakage of contaminated radioactive water. Malfunction of the 595,000 Kilowatt plant similar to the reactor at Three Mile Island has had cooling system troubles in the past. 1979, April- Lucas Heights, Australia 
Radioactive effluent discharged into the Woronora River. "Daily News" 4th April 1979 1979, April-U.S.A. 
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission ordered the closure of all Babcock and Wilcox reactors in the U.S. Exemption was granted to two reactors temporarily to prevent power shortages in three States. 
California's governor,  Mr Jerry  Brown, has accused the Nuclear Energy Industry of lying for 20 years. "West Australian "30th April 1979 1979, April-Three Mile Island, U.S.A. 
Dangerous gas bubble formed. Risk of hydrogen explosion. Some vital instruments were exposed to more radiation than they were designed to withstand. Reactor is so highly radioactive it may never reopen. Radioactivity in reactor building is 100 times lethal level. Three Mile Island accident had 150 precedents ... 150 valve failures in similar reactors, a U.S. Government official told the U.S. Senate. "Daily News" 1st May 1979 1979, May 6-Dungeness, U.K. 
Nuclear Reactor in Kent will be closed for 8 months because of cracks found in the reactor. "West Australian" 7th May 1979 1979, May 7-Tennesscc, U.S.A. 
Radioactivity released into the Tennessee River as a result of a leak in the generating unit's cooling system at Brown's Ferry Nuclear Plant. "West Australian" 7th May 1979 1979,11th May-Munich 
Fire swept through a nuclear research centre, 100 metres from the nuclear reactor. Radioactive material was threatened by flames which burnt for 10 hours. "West Australian" 14th May 1979 1979, 11th May 
Man tried to kill his employer with radioactive waste which he placed under the seat of his car. Enough radiation was given off to give anyone exposed to them a dose of 10 rems per hour. Recommended life-time dose for any one is 25 rems. "The Australian" 11th May 1979 1979,6th June-France 
French Atomic Energy Commission reported leak in experimental reactor at Cadarache nuclear research centre in Southern France. "Daily News-ah June, 1979. 1979, May 3- Rancho  Seco  Nuclear Reactor, Sacramento, U.S.A. 
Reactor shut down. "West Australian "3rd May. 1979 1979, April,-Zion, Illinois, U.S.A. 
Radioactive gas escaped into the air and released 3200 litres of radioactive water within the plant. Three men were sprayed but "all wore protective clothing and tests had shown no traces of contamination ". 
A company spokesman said "lt was only because of the Three Mile Island accident that they had informed the N.R.C.". "West Australian" 3rd May. 1979. 
Does this mean that previous accidents were not reported? 1979, 9th May-Richmond, Virginia, U.S.A. 
Nuclear sabotage attempt at Surry Nuclear Power Plant. Caustic substance dumped into 62 of the 64 fuel elements through manhole-like openings in the floor of the fuel storage building. At first believed fuel rods would have to be reconstructed at a cost of $6 million but this did not prove necessary. Could have been extremely dangerous if rods were radioactive. (Source: "THE AGE" 10 May 1979) 1979, May-June-U.S.S.R. 
Reports of prisoners dying through atomic radiation from A Shifrin the Director of a centre in the soviet Union that investigates the Concentration Camps and Psychiatric Prisons in the U.S.S.R. Some of these camps are near atomic submarine bases. Prisoners from camps reportedly clean highly radioactive parts of the submarines and thus receive lethal doses of radiation. Other prisoners work in uranium mines and refineries where they are exposed to radiation. "Baltic News" May-June, 1978 based on an article in :AT........ Russkoya Siovas", a New York periodical. 1979-Grand Junction, Colorado 
Significant levels of radom have been found in houses, schools, etc. where tailings were used for land fill and building foundations. Infant death rate for Grand Junction is 50% higher than the State average due to birth defects. (Source: Penelope Coding M.A.U.M.) 1979, July, Radium Hill, South Australia 40% or 1,200 of the 3,000 miners who worked at Radium Hill up to its closure in 1962 have either died of, or have developed cancer. 
The death toll is rising as more are discovering they have cancer. 
Workers were contaminated with radon gas at a time when the dangers of uranium mining were internationally known. As early as 1920 radon was a known killer. 
Safety procedures at the mine were substandard. Most miners did not know of the tremendous risk they were taking. Many miners are still not aware of the danger. Other miners have only recently found out, after public statements were made. Medical examinations have now shown a number have developed cancer. None were privately informed. "Nationwide " A.B.C. 23rd July 1 979. 
July 10 1979-Gentilly 1 Power Station  Trois  Rivieres, Canada 
Quebec's only nuclear power station shut down indefinitely.  Mr Hugh  Spence of the Atomic Energy Control Board said that the Gentilly reactor was fraught with problems from the beginning. "It is possible that Gentilly I will have to be closed permanently. The generating plant condemned by some scientists as a 'lemon' has functioned for only 10 days since opening in May 1977." 
The West Australian ' 1 1 July 1 979 
July 30 1979-New Mexico 
Accident in Uranium processing plant. Flashflood of radioactive material washed an estimated 130 kms. down the usually trickling Rio Puerco River which flows past a Navajo Indian Reservation. New York Times reported 100 million gallons of water and 1 100 tonnes of uranium tailings mishap considered largest such release in U.S. Residue from plant goes into large dam; dam burst. 
ABC "A.M." Program 30 July 1979 "New York Times" 28 July 1979 
August 4 1979 U.K. 
Five A.G.R. reactors (Advanced Gas Cooled) have been in use in the U.K. but "after a series of disastrous failures of design and equipment only two are now working". "The American system of letting private companies build and run A stations seems more risky than the British way". "Weekend News"4th August 1979 1979 July-Mururoa Atoll 
*"Two people were killed last month and another four were injured in accidents which followed an underground nuclear explosion at France 's Mururoa Atoll Test Area in the South Pacific Ocean". (Channel 9 News, Perth 9th August 1979 for A.A.P.) 1979  25  July 
An explosion equivalent to an earthquake registering 6.3 on the Richter scale was recorded on July 25 at Wellington Observatory. There have been about 25 tests undertaken by the French since 1975. "The West Australian" 9 August 1979 
August5 1979- Nevada Bomb Testing 
Five movie stars have died of radioactivity from atomic bomb tests fallout in Nevada testing site conducted in 1953. Fallout higher than bombs which devastated Japan. Stars John Wayne, Susan Hayward, Dick Powell, Agnes Moorhead have died along with most of their co-stars and film crew. Children in fallout area have had leukaemia rate 21/2 times the national average. "Sunday Telegraph" 5th August 1979 "Sunday Times" 5th August 1979 
August 8 1979 The Hague 
The only commercial nuclear power station in the Netherlands closed after a turbine steam bellows sprang a leak. "The West Australian "9th August 1979 
August 16 1979 Maralinga South Australia 
The former British atomic test site at Maralinga will not be considered safe until 2029 according to a report by the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council. Six Drums of plutonium have been dug up and returned to Britain in order to meet International Atomic Energy Safety standards. 
The West Australian" 16th August 1979 
WESTERN MINING CORPORATION-WESTERN AUSTRALIA 
1978, June 8 
*Two men died at Western Mining's Kwinana plant. Western Mining being prosecuted for breach of mining regulation- failure to provide respiratory protective devices. "West Australian" 19th December, 1979. 
This is the Company that the Western Australian Government is willing to trust with the mining of uranium in this State. 1978, November 
Radioactive measuring device 'lost' or 'stolen' from Western Mining Corporation 's Kambalda Nickel Refinery. Mysteriously turned up in Singapore with scrap metal after being smelted at the National Iron and Steel Works. Western Mining are still at a loss to know how, when or why the device 'went missing'. There are about 50 similar devices at the Kambalda Refinery. 
Western Mining's Kambalda manager admitted full responsibility for the Moss', the Company was prosecuted and fined only $100. "Daily News" 7th December, 1978 "West Australian" 25th May, 1979. 
There are now 66 nuclear reactors in the U.S.A. Ninety gallons per hour are leaking from waste storage into Biscayne Bay. 
The situation is continually exacerbated but is too "radioactive" for anyone to get near enough to do anything towards rectifying it. (Penelope Coleing) 
Studies in the U.S. have shown that there is a slight increase in radiation levels in rabbit and fish around reactor sites. (Penelope Coleing.) 
A transientworker employed for three months in West Valley plant in a particularly high radiation level room has since had two genetically deformed children whose life expectancy is ten years at the maximum. 
Ralph Denster claimed it was the "logical thing to do to employ transient workers for highly radioactive work ". (Penelope Coleing) 
Indeed around highly radioactive work sites around Australia there is seemingly a disproportionate share of John Browns, Fred Smiths and Joe Bloggs! 
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission wants to double its budget to $5.7 million for risk assessment studies and plans to replace inspectors at all reactors by 198 1. (National Journal 2nd January, 1979) 
Authors drop Nuclear Safety Study- N.R.C. officials in the United States have disclaimed methods and findings of their own Agency 's 3-year reactor safety study. 
The pro-nuclear lobby have depended heavily upon this report, using it as the basis of its arguments, even to the extent of misusing it. 
A spokesman for the Commission said "The summary is a poor description of the contents of the report . . . has lent itself to the misuse of the discussion of reactor risks ". ("West Australian" 22nd January, 1979 "How Safe is Nuclear Energy "-William J. Lanovette.) 
According to scientific estimates the worst possible reactor accident would result in- 3,300 immediate deaths 45,000 immediate injuries 45,000 later cancer deaths 248,000 other injuries including genetic defects ("Daily News" 4th April, 1979) 
*It is also likely that this is a very conservative estimate as most of those in connection with nuclear power have proved to be. (Harrisburg with 150 precedents was as remote a chance as a meteor strike on a city- once in a million years! ! ) 
Ledge Point- Western Australia 
One of the proposed sites for Western Australia 's nuclear power plant would not comply with Regulations of the U.S. 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission which controls population densities within 12 kilometres of the site. Ledge Point would fall within a 12 kilometre radius of the proposed site. ("Weekend News" 7th April, 1979). 
Red Rock Navajo Reservation, Arizona 
Alarming death rates amongst uranium miners caused by microscopic particles called radon daughter. 
* 17 have died, 45-50 have pulmonary fibrosis. 

 Dr Joseph Wagoner, Special Assistant for Occupational Carcinogenesis at the Occupational Safety and Health Administration has been studying uranium workers since 1960. 
Last formal count showed: 
* 1 44 cancer deaths among 3,500 miners. 
Statistically 29.8 such deaths would be expected leaving 1 1 4 instances of what doctors call "Excessive ' ' deaths. 

 Dr Wagoner's estimates of the toll through 1978 is about 200 deaths, 160 in excess "making 160 people who needlessly die due to lung cancer because we did not accept the published data that was already there for our use in the 1950's". "The date clearly indicates the inadequacy of current standards on radiation exposure in the mines". ("Daily News "6th June, 1979). 
July 25 1979 New York 
An international meeting of scientists and theologians called for an immediate moratorium on the construction of all new plants for five years. The purpose of the debate would be to enable wide participation in a public debate on the risks, costs and benefits of nuclear energy. "The West Australian" 25 July 1979. 
July 31 1979 Perth 

 Dr K. Roby the senior lecturer in the school of mathematical sciences at the West Australian Institute of Technology told a seminar that what had been thought to be acceptable levels of radiation for people working with radiation were now considered too high. The International commission on Radiological Protection had already suggested that the acceptable levels were about 10 times too high. "The West Australian" 31 July 1979. 
August 15 1979 Three Mile Island 
Radioactive air will be vented into the air from damaged nuclear reactor at Three Mile Island Harrisburg Pennsylvania as part of a four-year recovery program. The venting will be over a 30 day period and the total radiation will supposedly represent a fraction of dangerous levels- is there such a thing as a 'safe' level radioactive dose? 
REFERENCES 
"National Journal"- 2 January, 1979  "Ecologist", Charles Wakstein, July 1977, pg 2 10-215 "S.I.P.R.I. Yearbook", 1977  "Accidents, near accidents and leaks in the Nuclear power industry" 
Prepared by Penelope Coleing for Movement Against Uranium Mining 1977 "West Australian "-7 October, 1977, 26 August, 1978,28 August, 1978, 19 December, 1978, 22 January, 1979, 30 April, 1979, 3 May, 1979,25 May, 1979. "Sun Herald", 19 June, 1977 "Military Balance", 1978-79 "New Scientist", 30 June, 1977, Volume 72, pg 264 15 February 1979 pg 460 "The Australian", 9 December, 1976, 11 May 1979, 12 April 1978 "Daily News", 4 April, 1979, 1 May,1979,6June 1979,7 December 1978 "Sydney Morning Herald"-8 November, 1976, 12 November, 1976 
 How safe are nuclear power stations? " "Contingency Plan" 'Work Circle Environmental Protection' University of Freiburg/Br. W. Germany "Baltic News "-May-June, 1979-page 3 "A list of accidents in the nuclear industry" 
Second edition Published by Nich Thieberger and La Trobe University F.O.E. and S.R.C. Environment Committee "A landscape of nuclear tombs" 
Alexis Parks in Progressive V 41 (12) December, 1977, 30-31 "TheAge"-10May, 1979, 15February 1978 "The Herald "-Tuesday, April 24, 1979, 24 January 1978, 26 November 1977 
Les Amis De La Terre "L'Escroquerie Nucteaire" 
Stock 1978 France "Red light for yellow cake", Jim Falk, D. Hayes, N.Barrett, 1977 
Fission product containment of reactors under accident conditions and accidents to reactors". 
Jean Geye AAEC Publication "Weekend News"-7.4.79, 4.8.79 "Nationwide "-ABC Program, July 23, 1979 
Sunday Times "5.8.79 "Sunday Telegraph " 5.8.79 "Nuclear power plant safety- The risks of accidents" in "Atomic Energy" October 1976 No. 4 by D. Hughson and D. W. Crancher of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission " A.M. " Program Australian Broadcasting Commission 30 July 1979 
Bulletin Info. CEA No. 157 March 1971 "Rolling Stone "Australian 28 July 1977 "Nuclear accidents in the last 2-3 years" 12 September 1978 Defence, Science and Technology Group Legislative. Research Service, Parliamentary Library, Parliament House, Canberra "Nuclear Accidents "Four Corners 21 July 1979 "Nuclear Power" Walter Cram Patterson Harmonsworth Penguin 1976 
Rayonnement, A paper of the CFDT CEA, July 1 972 "Le Monde" 12 October 1971, 15 February 1974, 29 September 1974 "New York Times" 16 June 1979, 26 August 1974, 28 July 1979 "Boston Globe" 140ctober 1974, l4May 1974 "Times Record " 23 April 1 974 "LaNouvelleRepublique" 10 January 1973 "Not Man Apart" September 1972 Mid 1974 "Wall Street Journal "3 May 1973  "Los Angeles Times "5 July 1973 "The Observer" 2 December 1973 "Les  Echos"  24 September 1973 "Atmospheric Testing, a survey of medical statistics in Australia" Bruce J. Brown "Chicago Sun Times" 1 1 July 1974 "Le Figaro " 24 November 1 974 "Journal Du  Dimanche"  10 November 1973 
Robert Baker NRC Department of Transportation in his summary of wash 1238 at Warren Committee hearings in November 1974 "Financial Review"28 February 1979 
Australian Broadcasting Commission News Broadcast 25 June 1978 
Channel 9 News Perth W.A. 9 August 1979 from A.A.P. "How safe is nuclear energy?" William J. Lanovette in National Journal 2 October 1979 PG. 228 "The West Australian "-26 August 1978, 13 December 1978, 10 January 1979. 4 April 1979, 12 April 1979, 7 May 1979, II May 1979, 14 May 1979,22 May 1979, 6 June 1979  "WOrkomnisse  and  Strahlenung  falls in  Kernttechmischer Anlagen  " K. Thiemig Ed. 1966 Munich 

 Mrs Mary H. Weik,  Secretary of the American Committee on Radiological Dangers- A List of Mortalities in the U.S.A. for 1962 (Published 1964) 
Compiled from official statistics 
The Careless Atom S  Novick  Delta Books, New York 1969 
Prepared by; 

 Senator Ruth Coleman's Office 
P.O. Box B58 Perth 600 1 09/325.4772 
Cathy Bradley August 1979 
For some days now we have in this place been discussing, and asking questions about, the proposed sale by the Australian Government of the Ranger uranium mine. Unfortunately, Ministers are either unable or reluctant to talk about it. I want at the moment to refer to another uranium mine which is operating in Western Australia. I wonder whether the Ministers are even aware of its existence. I wonder whether in fact the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  is aware of the operation, and who owns it. I wonder whether the Minister for Science and the Environment is aware of it and whether an environmental impact study has been done. I wonder especially whether the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  who is at the moment in charge of the House, has been made aware of it and of the possible effects on the Ngangganawili population around Wiluna. 
This little piece of paper came into my hands some days ago and relates to the Lake Way 
Uranium Project, which is centred approximately 1,000 kilometres north-east of Perth and 10 kilometres east of Wiluna, close to the centre of Western Australia. The uranium deposits are found on the north-eastern shore of the lake within the boundaries of a large pastoral property called Millbillie, which is accessible from the main road heading east to the Gunbarrel Highway. The Yeelirrie deposit is roughly 100 kilometres to the south. This vast station, Millbillie is, surprisingly enough, owned by a large international company. It has been the headquarters for prospecting activities for the past four years, but those activities have lasted only during the four-month cool period each year- between May and September. 
The project is conducted by a three-way consortium and is being pushed forward by American interests. The partnership is led by the Wyoming Co. and Delhi International Oil Exploration Corporation. In line with Federal Government guidelines, the Australian content is being supplied by a sham Australian company, VAM Holdings. The United States interests stem from the giant parent company of Wyoming and Delhi- the Westinghouse Corporation- which builds and maintains nuclear reactors and nuclear armaments. It is estimated that mining operations could be ready to begin in two to three years. I repeat, I have not formally been made aware that this project was even in operation. I doubt whether any of the Ministers concerned have been made aware of it. If they have, I would be grateful if the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs would advise me of the stage the project has now reached. It appears that during the fourmonth period of activity each year some 1 5 or 20 people are employed in various facets of development. They include drillers, surveyors, ore analysts and radioactivity experts. Most are Australians but the key position is held by an American who is answerable to his bosses in the United States. As I have said, this debate is not really an urgency motion about the moral obligations of Australia, as an energy rich country in an energy starved world, to undertake commercial development of its abundant resources including uranium. It is purely and simply about the mining of uranium and the South Australian elections on 15 September. 
Not so very long ago the Minister for Science and the Environment said, as did  Senator Collard  a little while ago, that there had not been a death in the nuclear energy industry. 
All I can say is that a 28-page document has been incorporated in  Hansard  and the honourable senator can read all about it tomorrow. If he is still not satisfied I ask him to come back to me and I will then talk to him about the Nugget file, which contains excerpts from the United States Government's special internal file on nuclear power plant accidents and safety defects, as obtained in January 1979 by the Union of Concerned Scientists under the Freedom of Information Act of that country. Let us hear what these people have to say about nuclear energy and nuclear energy stations. The Nugget file was uncovered. It had to be uncovered because this fellow in charge of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission was hiding facts, not only from the people in the United States but also from the world, as to what really was happening. That union of scientists had this to say: 
Finally, the twelve-inch thick stack or nuclear safety documents squirrelled away by  Dr  Hanauer  became available for public perusal. The Nugget File is a collection of short reports, averaging perhaps 2-3 pages in length, about a wide variety of astonishing safety deficiencies at U.S. nuclear power plants. It casts light on both the technical and institutional aspects of nuclear power reactor safety and shows how seriously the image of safety in the nuclear program is blemished by simple and widespread carelessness. 
Whether an accident happens by human error or whether it happens by technological fault is not important. The point is that it does happen. It can endanger an awful lot of lives. We are not opposed to the development of nuclear energy if we can be satisfied that the working conditions of the people who are going to mine the product are safeguarded. We are not against the mining of uranium if we can establish that there is not going to be any harm to the environment or to the people who are in the immediate surrounds. We are not against the mining of uranium if we can be satisfied that there is some safe way in which to dispose of the waste. I point out to  Senator Collard  that that is something that nuclear scientists are still arguing about throughout the world. I have no doubt that they would be extremely grateful to receive his contribution. I doubt that it would help them very much. If he feels that he can fulfil that obligation in some way, I ask him to make his contribution to them. If we saw that we had a moral obligation to an energy starved world, to provide them with the necessary uranium, I would be quite happy for us to do so if all those obligations were fulfilled. There is no known way at the moment that we can say that nuclear energy is safe and that the mining of uranium is safe. Until such time as we can say that, it is pointless honourable senators opposite bringing on for debate an urgency motion, taking up the time of the Senate on a broadcast day for the specific purpose of publicising the South Australian elections to be held on 15 September, and then saying that it is the moral obligation of Australia as an energy rich country in an energy starved world to undertake commercial development of its abundant resources, including uranium. As I said before, this urgency motion is based purely and simply on the South Australian elections and the Government's endeavours to have further commercial development of uranium in this country.  (Quorum formed). 
The motion appointing this Committee was first moved by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in the Senate on 17 August 1978. The motion in paragraph 12 contained provision that the Committee report to Parliament by 3 1 December 1979. It was reasonable at that stage for the Attorney-General to expect that the Committee should be able to report by the end of 1979, although honourable senators were no doubt aware that it was extremely unlikely that Parliament would be sitting on New Year's eve. However, the passage of the motion through Parliament was not as rapid as might be expected by the Attorney-General when he moved it. Amendments were made to the motion in the House requiring the concurrence of the Senate. Because of the interest in the inquiry, the matter of nominations to sit on the Committee was not finalised until 12 October 1978. The first meeting of the Committee took place on 18 October 1978; submissions were called for by 3 1 December 1 978. So, the inquiry did not really get under way until February of this year when public hearings commenced. Nor could the Parliament or the Committee be expected to anticipate the tremendous public interest in the inquiry, which has resulted in the Committee's receiving 485 written submissions. 
The Committee has worked extremely hard and has pursued the inquiry relentlessly since its first public hearing on 8 February. It has conducted public hearings in all State capitals, except Brisbane, where it is meeting for a public hearing on 24 September. The transcript it has taken now comprises some five and a half thousand pages of evidence. The Committee since its appointment has accumulated a substantial body of information, both local and international, bearing on the inquiry. The  Chairman  recently returned from a study tour of Europe and North America, during which he gathered substantial data on family law systems in other countries with comparable jurisdictions. The Committee has accumulated a wealth of facts and knowledge and will require time to assess and process that information. A series of private meetings with selected experts is being undertaken to examine particular issues. Consultation on this basis is a comparatively new technique in parliamentary committee work. These meetings will cover topics where difficulties have been identified, such as the position of children under the Act, custody, maintenance, property and the organisation of the Family Court. 
As all honourable senators are aware, the issues for inquiry by the Committee are complex and diverse in their implications and it is considered that more time to finish the inquiry is needed. In those circumstances, the Committee has agreed that it would not be able to do justice to the inquiry if it attempted to rush through a report simply to meet the deadline contained in the resolution of appointment. The Committee believes that a more considered and substantial report on the many issues that this reference has raised will be possible only if an extension of time to report is obtained. The Committee believes that it could report to Parliament by the middle of the Autumn sittings in 1 980 and will direct its efforts to presenting its report to both Houses shortly after Easter next year and certainly by the end of the Autumn sittings. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health advise me whether the National Health and Medical Research Council has standing committees on health education and health promotion? If so, what are the essential differences between the two? What are the terms of reference of the two committees? What is the membership of those committees? 
-(Western Australia) -by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-Will the AttorneyGeneral give an assurance to the Senate and an undertaking to the people of Australia that the impending securities legislation will effectively outlaw insider trading? 
I am grateful to  Senator Thomas  for his comments because I do not believe that in the past our Quarantine Act has gone far enough.  Mr Bill  Toomer has made this quite obvious over many years.  Senator Thomas's  reference to foot and mouth disease reminded me of a letter by  Mr Toomer  who, as honourable senators may already be aware, has now tendered his resignation on the grounds of ill-health. Bill Toomer was, of course, the chief quarantine officer in Western Australia for a number of years. He was put in a position, I suppose, of some notoriety because he had a habit of speaking out to the Press which is against the provisions of the Public Service Act.  His  only crime, if one can call it a crime, was his concern that Australia should remain free of exotic disease. He did everything in his power to ensure that that happened. He made reference to foot and mouth disease in a letter to  The Bulletin  on 5 June 1976. Perhaps it is opportune at this time that I remind the Senate that the controversy over Bill Toomer arose back in 1973 when he drew the attention of the Australian people to the inadequacy of the Quarantine Act. He said, in his letter to  The Bulletin: 
Departmental expertise relating to much of the Quarantine Act has disappeared or never developed. There is a large drop out' of personnel in top positions where a perpetual game of administrative musical chairs exists in Canberra. 
It is a phenomenon that Australia has to date not inherited foot-and-mouth disease. There is no knowledge or explanation yet as to why we have not. We should therefore not flog our good luck, nor find expression of this in statements that the foot-and-mouth argument is emotional. Emotion enough would be introduced following a $2000 million a year loss of exports and a horrific slaughter of livestock. Ask the Argentinians. 
The cheese import restriction may or may not be valid but on performance it is unlikely that the Department of Health is capable of judging this. 
The department showed no concern at reported regular, distinct possibilities of foreign meat, bones, and ships' garbage being highly susceptible to the foot-and-mouth virus. I presented such evidence at a public service appeal hearing and it is on transcript. It was dismissed by the departmental experts for their comfort. 
There are many other examples of unrealistic quarantine application by the minister's experts and their dangerous disregard of the Quarantine Act and Regulations. 
Among American food supplies for the Exmouth naval base, the department bans sterilised baby food with egg content in order to prevent the possible introduction of Newcastle disease affecting birds and poultry. The experts do not prohibit imported egg in cake mix because they say it will be cooked in cakes; that is, if it does not become weevil infested and is thrown to the chooks. 
Recorded in a departmental publication (1973) the Minister's experts say that if rabies was introduced into our wildlife we would never get rid of it. Also recorded in the transcript of my public service appeal hearing, the department says that it would be easy to rid Australia of rabies should it be introduced into our native fauna. The advice was to shoot all our wildlife! 
Such examples of incredible ineptitude, contradiction and confusion constitutes the hallmark of  Mr Hunt  's experts who wear a cloak of knowledge which is ill-fitting and many sizes too large. 
With the introduction of this amendment to the Quarantine Act, the Government has, at long last, heeded the words of a person who could be considered an expert in this area. He devoted his entire working life to the Quarantine Division of the Department of Health. He was concerned that officers in the Health Department had no knowledge of quarantine procedures. There have been a number of headlines in newspapers throughout Australia about  Mr Toomer  's activities. I will draw attention to these headlines and I will ask for the incorporation in  Hansard  of these documents at a later stage. The  West Australian  on 8 May 1976 reported: 'Toomer Hits Out at N.W. Quarantine'. Other reports were headed: 'Hedland health threat from sea' and Council to ask for quarantine incinerator'. In Western Australia garbage from aircraft arriving from overseas is dumped on the local tip because there is no incinerator at the airport. These were some of the things that  Mr Toomer  was bringing to the notice of the Department seven years ago and no one was taking any notice of him. 
Perhaps we can sit back now and say that this is rather marvellous when we have agreed that we need tighter quarantine controls. Perhaps we need to look at the installation of incinerators at all arrival airports for overseas aircraft. Perhaps we need to have incinerators at the ports in the north west of Western Australia where overseas ships come in or where ships come to Australia illegally, as has happened on a number of occasions.  Mr Toomer  was the subject of a long debate with the Department at one stage when he ordered that a ship be fumigated. I understand that the owners of that ship subsequently charged the Western Australian Government an amount of $2,200 for the fumigation.  Mr Toomer  had a habit, as I said earlier, of going to the Press and this was not recognised by the Department as being quite the right thing as he came under the provisions of the Public Service Act. 

 Mr Toomer has had a number of questions and comments raised in the various houses of Parliament both State and Federal. I must admit that they have been raised mainly in the Federal Parliament because  Mr Bungey  from Western Australia has been quite prolific in his comments about  Mr Toomer,  He has placed a number of questions on the Notice Paper, as has  Mr Gordon  Scholes who first took up the case of  Mr Toomer  back in 1974-75. My regret about this whole amendment to the Act is that it is five years too late in the case of  Mr Toomer. Mr Toomer  was demoted and sent to Port Hedland as a quarantine officer having been degraded from chief quarantine officer in Western Australia. He was then further demoted and will finish his career in the next few days as a quarantine inspector at the airport in Melbourne. The activities of the Department and the bureaucracy over the last few years have caused a breakdown in his health. We in this Parliament are just as responsible as the Department and the bureaucracy to which I referred because we did not pay sufficient attention to what this man was saying. We did not consider that perhaps he was sane and that we were the ones who were not looking at the matter in a logical way. We did not care a great deal about what happened in those rather isolated ports in the north of Western Australia and we did not pay sufficient attention to the possibility that we could be subjected to a number of exotic diseases. 
I am very grateful for the fact that the Standing Committee on National Resources of which  Senator Thomas  is the  chairman  has seen fit to take evidence from a number of people around Australia, including  Mr Toomer.  I will read the report with great interest. I will also obtain a copy of the transcript of evidence to see what he had to say about our present quarantine measures and whether he considers they are adequate. He is the man, I believe, who is most capable of judging whether this amendment to the Quarantine Act is adequate or whether we are not just hiding our heads in the sand and we will have to sit back and wait once again for another Bill Toomer to appear on the scene. As  Senator Grimes  said earlier, we do not disagree with this Bill. We commend it to the Government. I do not believe that it is strong enough and I would sincerely hope that the Minister and his Department would look very carefully at a further application of stringent measures to ensure that we remain free of any exotic diseases in Australia. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of the report in the Soviet Union newspaper the  Kommunist  and reported in yesterday's  Age  newspaper in which serious doubts about the scope, safety and environmental consequences of the various stages of the nuclear fuel cycle are expressed? Is the Minister aware of the significance of this admission, given the Soviet Union's commitment to nuclear power and the fact that it has presently 10 large nuclear power plants under construction? In the light of this and other questions which have been raised since the Government produced its nuclear safeguards proposal, will there now be a reexamination to ensure that those safeguards are adequate for the health and welfare of people involved in the mining, processing and transportation of uranium or yellowcake and particularly the health and welfare of those people who are presently living in the vicinity of the nuclear installation at Lucas Heights? 
I am taking advantage of the adjournment debate tonight, despite the threats from some members of the Government parties that they will not be present during the adjournment debate, to bring to the attention of honourable senators a situation which has developed in a small township in the Kimberleys in Western Australia and to speak about a particular person who is employed there. The town is Fitzroy Crossing and the man involved is Stan Davey, a former community welfare officer. It is rather unfortunate that I have to do this in this way. Perhaps one of the reasons that I have to do it is that very little news that emanates from Western Australia is repeated in newspapers of the eastern States. I happen to believe that this issue is important to all people wherever they live and whatever the colour of their skin. There have been a few isolated reports on radio and a snippet here and there on television but perhaps the most important item of all appeared in this morning's  Canberra Times,  which I will come to later. 
It is important that honourable senators look at the situation in the town of Fitzroy Crossing. I was rather interested to find when I asked the statistical service of the Parliamentary Library to get me the latest census figures for the total population of that town that it had to go to some trouble to do so. The 1976 census figures show a population of 649 at Fitzroy Crossing. Of these people 108, or 16.6 per cent of the total population, are classed as Europeans and 534, or 82.3 per cent, are classed as Aboriginals. I would hesitate in 1 979 to accept that those figures of 1 976 are still appropriate but I would certainly accept that the percentages would be approximately the same. Eight separate Aboriginal communities reside at Fitzroy Crossing, and I intend to read letters from the leaders of those organisations very shortly. It is important for people to appreciate how the population in that town has increased over the years and the reasons why it has increased. For instance, Audrey Bolger, a lecturer in the Department of Social Work at the University of Western Austarlia, says that it is due to the pastoral award being put into effect. I believe that that is largely correct, but there are other factors. The point she makes is well worth taking. She states: 
. a lot of Aborigines were turned off the pastoral properties- 
They are her words, not mine-  on which they were working, and so the population increased in those years from somewhere around 200 to about 800 people. 
The majority of the pastoralists did not want to have to pay Aborigines for the work that they were doing. They had been exploiting the Aborigines perhaps for generations and they did not like the idea of paying for labour which until that time had been relatively free. I am not condemning all pastoralists because I believe that there were, and still are, a number of people in the Kimberleys, in the north of Western Australia, and in other States who highly valued the work that their Aboriginal employees did then and still do. The point I am making, and that Audrey Bolger makes, is that not all of them liked the new situation with the pastoral award. Audrey Bolger went on to say: 
The conditions in Fitzroy were appalling. There was nowhere for the Aboriginal people to stay and most of them camped around the hotel. They were seen as a large, unruly group. There were fights, there was drunkenness, there was unemployment . . . really a situation of chaos. 
That was the situation at Fitzroy Crossing. Let us look at Stan Davey.  Mr Davey  has a long history of work with the Department of Community Welfare. Indeed, he has a long history of work with Aborigines. In Victoria, for instance, he worked with the Aborigines Advancement League. He worked with the Federal Council for Aboriginal Advancement and he worked with the Community Welfare Department at Wyndham and at Oombulgurri. Some five years ago he announced his intention to retire and perhaps to go to Queensland to live. He has not given a reason for this. Perhaps he saw that he could work amongst the Aboriginal communities there. I do not know. He has a history of caring for and a knowledge of those communities that very few white people are ever fortunate enough to obtain. Perhaps his greatest commendation comes from Professor Colin Tatz who is the head of the Politics Department of the University of New England and who has known of Stan Davey 's work for 20-odd years. He has written a number of books on the subject of racism and politics and the attitudes of blacks to whites and whites to blacks. He says: 
Stan Davey suffers from one disastrous fault. He's successful in his relations with black people, and there are an awful lot of people who sit by and don't like to watch the success of somebody, particularly in the. light of their record of failures. 
As I said, about five years ago Stan Davey decided that he would retire and go to Queensland to live. He subsequently notified the Department of his intentions. It was the Director of Community Welfare in Western Australia who asked him to go to Fitzroy Crossing because of the racial problems that were emanating there, to make an assessment of the total situation and possibly to make recommendations on what could or should be done. It is pretty obvious that Stan Davey was well thought of by the Department, to have the Director of Community Welfare himself suggest that this might be an area where he could find fulfilment and where he could be helpful to the Aboriginal community. 
I think it is important also that we look at the sacrifices that have been made by Stan Davey in his work in the Kimberley area.  His  wife, Jan Richardson, also has made some sacrifices in her work amongst the Aboriginal community. I understand that  Senator Chaney  was at Fitzroy Crossing quite recently and met and spoke with both of them. He will understand the amount of work that has been carried out at Fitzroy Crossing, largely with the help of both of these people. It is not an easy life in the Kimberleys. I suppose one would have to spend time there to understand just how isolated it can be. I have mentioned in the Parliament before that it was said to me at Halls Creek that its residents were so isolated and so out of touch with what was happening that if war were declared in Perth on a Saturday they would not find out about it until the Sunday papers did not arrive on Tuesday. I do not think the situation is much different at Fitzroy Crossing. On the few occasions that I have been there I have been struck by the absolute desolation of the majority of the countryside. I have also been terribly impressed by the community spirit that has developed there in the last few years. I would say that that is largely because of the work of Stan Davey. Professor Tatz, who has been to the Kimberleys, describes Fitzroy Crossing as 'in some ways a bit of a hell hole in terms of white living conditions and white living standards'. He said further: 
It takes a very special kind of selfless person to spend five years at a place like Fitzroy Crossing . . . and is willing to spend the rest of his life there. 
Let us look at what Stan Davey and his wife have been doing while they have been at Fitzroy Crossing. I think it is important that one recognises that four years ago the Federal Government purchased Noonkanbah pastoral station for the Aborigines. It was already being run as a pastoral station. It had been managed by a number of white companies and white managers who had not been able to make it a profitable concern. It was purchased by the Federal Government, and the Aborigines took it over. The fact that they are running it as a cattle station, and running it very successfully, is indicated by the fact that since they have had control they have made more profit than was made by the white owners and the white managers in the previous five years. 
In 1974, 1 believe. That is one program that has been achieved, and from the letters I will read from the leaders of the community the Senate will be able to appreciate the help, assistance and advice that Stan Davey was able to give the Noonkanbah people. Of course, there are many other projects. For instance,  Ms Richardson,  the wife of Stan Davey, has started an extremely successful homemaker program. It is a very imaginative program. It was the first of its kind in Australia. It is rather interesting that people from other States have come to look at it and to see how it works, and they are adapting it in their own communities. In other parts of the Kimberleys it is already under way, and I believe it is now going into the Northern Territory. So  Ms Richardson  has been very successful in her own right in the black community. 
As I said earlier, I understand that  Senator Chaney  was at Fitzroy Crossing in August of this year, at about the time a great deal of this racial unrest was making itself felt. Some 12 months ago there came into this situation a police sergeant, Sergeant Malcolm Cole, and that is when the trouble really started. The previous sergeant, a Sergeant Westerside had been most appreciative of the black people's problems and obviously had commanded their respect. He was prepared to listen to them and accept that their way of life was different from that of the white man. Whether the white man's way is the good one or not is something that honourable senators will have to determine for themselves. In the 12 months that Sergeant Cole has been at Fitzroy Crossing 24 allegations of police brutality against blacks at Fitzroy Crossing have been made, and they are only the ones that have been reported to the Aboriginal Legal Service. One questions whether there were other allegations of police brutality against Aboriginals at Fitzroy Crossing in that same period that were not reported to the Aboriginal Legal Service. The point I am making is that Sergeant Cole has a history of brutality going back to 1968 in Port Hedland, as I recall it. 
As a result of these 24 cases being reported to the Aboriginal Legal Service, the Police Commissioner in Western Australia, Owen Leitch, decided to send two senior policemen who were experienced in the north-west to look at the situation in Fitzroy Crossing. At roughly the same time reports were made to the Commissioner for Community Relations alleging police brutality, and it was decided that a  deputy, Mrs Lorna  Lippmann, would go to Fitzroy when she had the opportunity, which I believe was two weeks ago. There is a bit of a problem here because I have to question the wisdom of the Police Department posting a person with a history of problems with the Aboriginal community to an area with a predominance of black people. I wonder whether it is not all part and parcel of a rather intricate design. It does not appear that in all the years Sergeant Cole has been in the north-west he has learned anything about Aboriginal people. If he has, he certainly has not used that knowledge. 
A meeting was held on 23 May this year, and I referred briefly to this before, between the Marra Worra Worra and the police. Present were the  chairman,  Joe Lanigan, the members of the council, and, by invitation, Superintendent Styant and Senior Inspector Walker, and  Mr Vincent  from the Aboriginal Legal Service. A number of questions were asked which apparently had already been placed on the blackboard to enable the Aborigines to determine the area about which they wanted to speak and to give them some assistance in making any statements they wished to make. At this stage, I think I should seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the minutes of that meeting. 
I have no problem with that. I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that I have marked some names with the letter P' simply to indicate that they are police officers, so that there is no confusion. A number of interesting things come out of those minutes. For instance, in reply to a question as to whether it is right for policemen to drink on duty, the superintendent said that they have many rules, one of which is that they should not drink on duty. The senior inspector went on to say that it is a very hot climate and that they do relax the rule and people can drink a little. I think that is an entirely reasonable attitude to adopt. Unless one has been to the Kimberleys and unless one has suffered the heat one cannot possibly know just how hot and how dry it can be. As I said, I think the attitude expressed by the senior inspector at that meeting was a very sensible one. 
Of course, it could be considered also a little unreasonable if, as a result of that little drink, there were incidents that occurred later on. I am not saying that all the incidents occurred after the policeman had had a drink. I am simply raising the possibility that it may have occurred because some very serious charges were made at that meeting. There are suggestions, for instance, that people have been belted up, pulled out of their cars, kicked, had their arms twisted, punched, and even punched while handcuffed. There are certainly allegations contained in those minutes that police were drunk when some of those brutalities occurred. I think it is probably sufficient, at this time, to say that as a result of that meeting there apparently was a recommendation that the senior police officer would be transferred- or perhaps I should say that the communities were certainly under the impression that they had an assurance that he would be transferred. 
As I have said, I make it perfectly clear that not all police officers carry out brutal acts against Aboriginals. I believe that the majority of those people in the north of Western Australia, those policemen who have been there for some years, have adopted a very kindly attitude towards the black population. But I think it is a very dangerous situation, having almost certainly been given some assurance that there could be a transfer of a police officer, that we suddenly found that into the fray came the Police Commissioner of Western Australia. He decided to reverse the decision that had apparently been made. He decided that Sergeant Cole would not be transferred. He decided, for instance, to go to Fitzroy Crossing himself and to talk to the people again. 
I think, once again, I have to admit to a strange feeling about that particular meeting. I would have said that on the surface it appeared to be a good action, but from information that I have received it would appear to have been a meeting with a very select audience. One of the people who did not know that the meeting was on was a man who was very much involved in community affairs. That was Stan Davey. In fact, he was so much in the dark about the meeting that he went off to Derby to fulfil another commitment. I can assure honourable senators that his visit to Derby would not have been intentional. If he had been aware that there was a meeting with the Police Commissioner in that town he would have broken any commitment to be there, not only to advise but also to put propositions forward in the interests of all the community, not just the black community. The only conclusion one can draw from that fact is that that knowledge was deliberately kept from him. That immediately raises other questions. Whom else was this knowledge kept from? How many Aboriginals attended the meeting? I have been told two; I have been told six; I have been told 12. 1 have not been able to establish a true figure. But if any of the Aboriginals who are supposed to have attended that meeting did, in actual fact, attend it, did they speak? If they did, did they speak as representing the communities? Were those who attended elders of the eight Aboriginal communities that I have mentioned before or were they just Aboriginals who happened to drop by? 
Earlier this year- I will have to try to draw all these strings together pretty soon as the time is late- the Noonkanbah community lodged an appeal in the courts against a decision to allow the Amax corporation to drill for oil on its property. The corporation wanted to drill at Noonkanbah on a site called Pea Hill. Pea Hill is considered to be a sacred site by the Aboriginal community at Noonkanbah. The interesting thing I found in this dispute was that whilst the Government said that it was quite happy to have the museum prepare a report on the sacred significance of Pea Hill, the court did not wait for that report to come down. In fact on the very day that the museum stated that Pea Hill was a site of sacred significance, the court determined that, in the national interest, it would permit drilling for oil at Noonkanbah. Personally I am getting a little tired of the phrase 'in the national interest'. In fact, we heard it this morning on the national news. The Pakistani Government stated that it would not hold an election it had promised 'in the national interest'. It seems to be a phrase that can be drawn into absolutely anything. When people disagree with governments they say that something is 'in the national interest'. 
At this stage we are concerned only with Noonkanbah. The Aboriginals, as I said, decided that they would not permit Amax to drill on Pea Hill. The company co-operated to the extent that it said that drilling operations would not start until 1980 and then only on a site removed from Pea Hill. One might think that that should have been the end of the problem. In the intervening period we have had this problem with the communities and the problem of the alleged police brutality. Then came perhaps the most bitter blow of all, the transference of Stan Davey. Stan Davey was advised that he was transferring to Kalgoorlie. The date, I understand, was set at 5 October. Perhaps one could say that it was a jolly good thing to have him transferred to another area where he could establish the same rapport with the communities and set up the same programs with which he had been so successful at Fitzroy Crossing except for the fact that a job was not available for him at Kalgoorlie. He was doing marvellous work in an important area in which good relations had existed prior to the immediate 12 months. There has been marvellous community relations in that area. Stan Davey had, in part, been responsible for that. Now he was suddenly being transferred to a nothing job in Kalgoorlie. He was being taken away from people who admired and respected him and for whom he had a great admiration and respect. 
It is opportune that at this time I read letters from the various communities that were written in September of this year. They give an indication of the high regard in which Stan Davey was held. The first letter is addressed to the Commissioner for Community Relations in Canberra from the Aboriginal community leaders at Fitzroy Crossing. It complains about the transfer of Stan Davey from Fitzroy Crossing by the Western Australian Department for Community Welfare. It reads: 
We wish to make a complaint under the Racial Discrimination Act, 1975. We have been told that Stan Davey is going to be transferred by the Community Welfare Department from Fitzroy Crossing to Kalgoorlie. 
He has been working with our community since the start of 1973, and he has done many things to help us. He was the first white man to come to this place to help Aborigines. He has taught us how to do many things for ourselves. He has helped us with housing and transport. He does not interfere with us in how we run our communities, but he will always give us advice and support when we ask him. 
Many white people don 't like Stan because of what he has done to help us. One reason he has been told for why he has to leave is that he does not get on with the whole community. He gets on well with all the Aborigines, so that means some of the white people must have been complaining about him. 
We think that forcing Stan to leave Fitzroy is discrimination because it will make things harder for we Aborigines. 
And also because a small number of whites have made the trouble Tor him, while all the Aborigines would like to see him stay here with us. 
We would like to see one of your officers come here to try to get at the truth of why Stan Davey is being made to leave Fitzroy Crossing. 
That letter is signed by the  chairman  of the Bayulu  community, the  chairman  of the Noonkanbah Management Committee, the  chairman  of the Milijidee  Management Committee, the National Aboriginal Council representative at West Kimberley, a community worker at, and the  chairman  of the Kroonull  community, and the  chairman  of the Wangkatjunka  community of the Windmill Reserve. I have another letter from the  Kadjina  community at Fitzroy Crossing. It reads: 
I don't think we'll let him go, Stan Davey, he's doing a good job for us. He's the one been start us off doing good things for us. We are doing things for ourselves now, and he doesn't interfere with us, just helps us when we ask him. 
All we Kadjina people, and the Noonkanbah people, and the Bayulu people and the Kroonull people, we see he is alright. He hasn't done anything wrong. 
We don't know how this thing's been going to try and push Stan away from here, and we don't want him to go out from this place. Why is this going on? We want to know who is the man writing a letter to try and do this. 
We don't see nothing wrong with Stan. He's been doing a good job for us for years. 
The letter is signed by George Bell of the  Kadjina  community. The next letter reads: 
I never seen anything wrong with Stan Davey. In the first place we never see any Gudia- 
For the benefit of those honourable senators who do not understand, that word means European'-  who can help us, only Stan. Before we never used to come in the office, but this time we got a good life. With Stan we learnt a lot of good things. 
Stan is working with Aboriginal people. He doesn't feel afraid of us, and we don 't feel afraid of him. We trust him. 
When we first moved to Kurnangki we only had one tap. Today we got houses, more taps and a toilet through Stan helping us. I don't think Stan leave here. 
It is signed by  Wadgie Thirkall  chairman of the Kurnangki community. The next letter which I have reads as follows: 
Stan Davey never did anything wrong here. He doesn't interfere with us at Milijidee. He was a good helper and a good worker with us and we started the station. Wc didn't have any trouble with him. 
He is a good bloke and he is doing a good job for the Bayulu community and the Kroonull community. We need him to stay in Fitzroy Crossing to help the Aboriginal People. 
This letter is signed by Charlie  Rangi,  chairman of the  Milijidee  Management Committee. It goes on and on. I have half a dozen letters from various communities to the Director of Community Welfare. Perhaps honourable senators will get a better appreciation of how this transfer was regarded when they learn that there was even a threat of a strike by members of the Civil Service Association. That would have to be considered to be an unprecedented action on the part of those who are normally considered to be most conservative in their activities. On 26 September a newspaper report under the heading N-W Strike Threat' stated: 
The Department of Community Welfare could face strike action in the North- West if officials insist on transferring a popular Fitzroy Crossing field officer. 
The Civil Service Association claims that  Mr Stan  Davey is being ' evicted ' for political reasons. 
And the Opposition spokesman on community welfare matters,  Mr Harman,  says he will demand a judicial inquiry. 

 Mr Davey has been told to report for work at Kalgoorlie on October 15. 
The general secretary of the CSA,  Mr Tony  Black, said today he had been to Fitzroy Crossing to investigate the matter and was satisfied that  Mr Davey's  transfer would dramatically interfere with the department's assistance programme for Aborigines in the town. 
I can see no other reason for his transfer than poltical embarrassment if he is kept in the area, ' he said. 
There is a very clear feeling among his co-workers in the North- West that they should take direct industrial action if the Department proceeds. ' 

 Mr Black said that problems in the town seemed to have been resolved some months ago when the Aboriginal Legal Service received an assurance from the Commissioner of Police that the local police sergeant would be transferred away. 
But, after a visit to the town by the Commissioner and the  deputy chairman  of the Public Service Board,  Mr Pat  Shaddick, the sergeant was still there and one of the DCW's most effective officers was being transferred. 
He said  Mr Davey  had had to make a formal request for the reasons for his transfer. 
He was not even told why he was being transferred. The article continued: 
A telex message in response claimed the matter had been discussed by senior members of the DCW and the Public Service Board. 
It said that both agreed it was in the best interests of the needs and operations of the DCW and PSB for him to be transferred. 
The department had to be concerned about the 'broad community' in order to provide the most efficient and effective service. 

 Mr Harman said he would give notice in Parliament today of a motion calling for a judicial inquiry into the situation involving the community at Fitzroy Crossing. 
Particular reference will be made to the proposed transfer of a community welfare officer, ' he said. 

 Mr Davey said today he would not comment on the growing controversy. 
It is a growing controversy and it has not been eased by the fact that  Mr Davey  has now announced that he will resign. The article claims that the transfer of Stan Davey was politically motivated. Of course, the Western Australian Government has denied that it would be a party to anything like that, so I think it is important that we go back a little further in history. We can go back, for instance, to the State election of 1977. This was the election in which the sitting member for Kimberley,  Mr Alan  Ridge, very nearly lost his seat to an Aboriginal candidate for the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Ernie  Bridge. Honourable senators will remember the controversy that arose at that time because it was important enough for all the eastern States Press to carry the matter. It eventually went to the Court of Disputed Returns where allegations were made that Liberal Party candidates and members of the Liberal Party had applied undue pressure to members of the Aboriginal communities to ensure that their votes were not cast in the way they wished them to be cast. 
In the court  Mr Justice  Smith found that the Labor candidate had been improperly denied votes by the tactics of the Liberal candidate,  Mr Alan  Ridge, who was then the Minister for Community Welfare. A new election was subsequently held, I think on 19 December 1977, and  Mr Ridge  retained his seat. It is quite feasible to suggest that the vote of the black people could tip the balance at the next State election which is due early next year, because in a letter presented to the Court of Disputed Returns  Mr Ridge  stated, in part: 
I would anticipate that the next election there could be 3000 to 4000 Aborigines on the roll and under such circumstances the Liberal Party would be doomed to failure. 
I said earlier that Stan Davey wanted the Aboriginal people to be able to stand as true Australians and to be a proud race of people in their own country. He wanted them to be able to accept the responsibilities that are accepted by the European community, part of which is the right to cast a vote in elections and to know what one is voting for. We tend to accept those rights fairly lightly because we have always had them, but the Aboriginal people have not. At the moment the Western Australian Government- this may appear to be another diversion, but I can assure the Senate that it is not and that it is part and parcel of the same activity that is being conducted in Fitzroy- has before it a very important and most controversial piece of legislation. It is an amendment to the Electoral Act and it will preclude many Aborigines from casting a vote in the next State election, on the grounds of illiteracy as much as anything. There are provisions in the Bill which raise other objections, one of which is that to get on to the electoral roll a person has to have an application form signed by a justice of the peace, by an officer of the Electoral Department or by a police officer. That is one provision that I object to, but there are other provisions relating to how-to-vote cards being accepted as an indication of the way a person wants to cast a vote and other things like that. 
I have spoken already about the allegations against a police officer at Fitzroy Crossing. I do not know whether a justice of the peace is resident there, but certainly there is no person who can be considered to be an officer of the Electoral Department resident there. If enough distrust were built up about a police officer of course there would be considerable apprehension on the part of the Aborigines about going to him to get assistance to get their names on the electoral roll. Many potential black voters would not be eligible to enrol. 
Earlier I mentioned the Amax corporation and its proposed exploration for oil at Noonkanbah. I find it a little more than coincidental that the very week before the transfer of Stan Davey from Fitzroy Crossing to Kalgoorlie was to take effect another large mining company, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd, moved drilling equipment on to Noonkanbah station- probably once again 'in the national interest'. 
I understood that it was by agreement but I am disturbed by what I read in the  Canberra Times  this morning. I am even more disturbed that I could not find a reference to it in the  West Australian.  Admittedly I did not go through the business page, the sporting page or the comics, but I did think I would find something about the matter in a fairly prominent position because Western Australia is the State where the action is. If the  Canberra Times  can find room on page 3 for an article on the subject one would expect that the newspaper barons in the State where the action is, would at least have found a spot somewhere for a report. The article on page 3 of the  Canberra Times  of Wednesday, 17 October, under the heading of Blacks tell minor to get off land ' states: 
Conzinc Riotinto of Australia has been told to 'get out' of an Aboriginal pastoral lease in the eastern Kimberleys by the elders of the community. 
The  Nookembah  community has accused the mining company, which has exploration leases on the station, of deceiving it about its intentions about the land. 
You say you only look at one part of our station and go away after three weeks', a letter from the community to CRA, issued in Canberra yesterday, said. 
But we, after talking more between ourselves, say we don't want you because if you find something up there you may come more and more on to our land and we don't want that. 
Also you didn't tell us you were looking for uranium. That stuff dangerous for everybody. 
We have been born out of the ground and we have to stay in that bit of ground. 
So we don 't want the mining companies to come. We only say one thing, get out. We don't want mining companies on our land'. 
Nookembah has already made a number of attempts, some through the courts and some by confrontation of prospectors, to prevent exploration on the station. 
It has had only limited success, however, because the Western Australian Government is firmly opposed to Aboriginal land rights over the area and believes that exploration should go ahead. 
Presumably, the Western Australian Government wants exploration to go ahead in the national interest. There are newspaper articles going back to 1971. Stan Davey is mentioned in an article written by Diana Warnock in the  West Australian  of 12 May 1971 under the heading Aboriginals' plight angers poet'. In this article  Mrs Kath  Walker is quoted as saying: 
At Wyndham Stan Davey, field research officer for the Aborigines Advancement League, wanted to set up an employment bureau for the Aborigines where they could arrange to sell their labour to the stations at the correct price. 
There are dozens of articles on the matter in Western Australian newspapers, particularly the  Daily News  but not so much in the  West Australian  because that newspaper does not see the importance of the matter. Many newspaper articles have been written about the work of Stan Davey in the Aboriginal community and the regard that the Aboriginal community has for that man. It is a little bit distressing to me- and I would hope it would be to other members in this chamber- to read in the  Daily News  of 15 October, two days ago, an article under the heading 'Welfare officer resigns'. It confirms that Stan Davey has decided that he cannot take any more of this controversy. He is not prepared to put in jeopardy any longer those people whom he considers to be his people- those people at Noonkanbah and the  Bayulus  and all of the communities in that area, those people for whom he has a love, a regard, a caring and a respect and who return that love, regard and respect. So he has resigned. This is what he had to say: 
It is better that I resign than let all this build up and up. 
He said that he was prepared to negotiate his finishing date with the Department of Community Welfare and help to settle a new officer into the job that he had held for four years. He said: 
I would like to stay on at Fitzroy Crossing working with the Aborigines if I can find a sponsor, but there's not a lot of work around that pays enough to keep a family. 

 Mr Davey's position at Fitzroy Crossing has caused upheavals among other officers in the department and in State Parliament in the past month. 
Members of the Civil Service Association of WA threatened strike action on 2 October if  Mr Davey  was transferred. 

 Mrs L. Lippmann, assistant to the Federal Commissioner for Community Relations,  Mr Grassby,  spent three days in the town investigating. 
Classic 
Today the Opposition spokesman on community welfare,  Mr J.  J. Harman said: 'This is another classic example of the government getting its way against someone who dares to oppose or question them. 
No real reason has been given for this transfer. The only explanation was that it was "at the convenience of the department". 
It's really a matter of "The transfer or the axe". 
The Government has already partly conceded its mistakes by postponing the transfer date.  Mr Davey  was to move today, but on 3 October the Minister for Community Welfare,  Mr Young,  told Parliament that it was off until the end of the school year. ' 
I might add that the change to the end of the school year was made upon the application of  Mr Davey  himself, who pointed out that he had a young family attending school in Fitzroy Crossing and did not want to disrupt the education program of his daughter. The article continues: 

 Mr Harman said that no replacement had been chosen for  Mr Davey. 

 His welfare programs with Aboriginal communities at Fitzroy Crossing had several months to run. 
Leaders of all eight Aboriginal communities at Fitzroy Crossing had written in support of  Mr Davey  and he had been backed by other professional social workers. 

 Mr Harman said it was obvious that  Mr Davey  had been forced to resign for political purposes. 
He said: 'There is no doubt he is a very competent and popular officer. 
But he made the mistake of questioning the Court government policy of allowing mining on sacred Aboriginal sites. 
He was reprimanded for this and he accepted the reprimand, but that wasn't enough for the Government- they insisted on his transfer. ' 
He said that  Mr Davey's  resignation was the third major step by the Government in its campaign to ensure that the present member for Kimberley, the Minister for Housing,  Mr Alan  Ridge, held the seat at the next State election. 

 Mr Harman said: 'The first step was to push Ernie Bridge (the endorsed Labor candidate) off the Aboriginal Lands Trust. 
Then they fixed the Electoral Act to make it much more difficult for Aborigines to enrol, and now they've forced Stan Davey to quit because he just might have helped Aborigines to stand up for themselves. ' 

 Mr Harman said he still wanted a full judicial inquiry to be held into Fitzroy Crossing. 
As my colleague  Senator Grimes  has already said, we have moved this amendment because of our concern and disappointment that this Bill does not go anywhere near meeting the needs of the community that it is supposed to serve, that is, those large number of people who are classified as and considered to be homeless. A definition of a homeless person appears in Law and Poverty in Australia', the second main report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty of October 1975. It is a very tight definition. It states: 
Although there is no universally accepted definition of the homeless population, the following is a useful attempt: 
A homeless person falls below an objectively defined poverty line, at least from time to time, and is effectively single permanently, in so far as he is cut off from or has no relatives or close friends. Though he may be receiving some form of outside support, he has few independent resources, often has no immediate means and in some cases has little future prospect of self-support. He is without a conventional home and lacks most of the social or economic supports a home normally provides. The term homeless person' may include such casual, seasonal or migratory workers who present welfare problems while passing through a community or staying in it for a relatively short time. 
As I said, the definition is very narrow. Many more people in the community can and must be considered homeless. We recognise that the figures given in the report that there are between 3,000 and 3,500 homeless people in the inner city area of Sydney alone may have been valid in 1975. The figures are no longer valid. As  Senator Mason  said, the figures in Victoria now total some 7,000 persons. I think that would be a very conservative estimate. We have no idea of the true extent of homelessness because no one has ever done a comprehensive survey on those people who see themselves as being homeless. I refer, for instance, to those people who come from country areas, perhaps in Western Australia, to the city in search of employment because there is no possible opportunity for them in their country towns where their parents are resident. They come to the city. They gravitate perhaps into a communal-type home or perhaps they have to gravitate to a refuge. Generally, though, there are only women's refuges. I must admit that there is not the same facility available for young men. No one, to the best of my knowledge, has ever gone around to those people and asked: Do you consider yourself homeless? 
When we contacted the Department of Social Security in Western Australia this afternoon we were not able to find those organisations which had applied for and been rejected a grant under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. 
Debate interrupted. 
The Minister stated that $5.6m would be spent under the homeless persons assistance program this year. I ask whether that figure includes the amount of $4m which, according to the second reading speech of the Minister, has already been allocated to projects in Queensland, or whether she is expecting, or already has, an additional appropriation of $5. 6m for the program. 
Does that mean that $4m is to be provided from the capital fund and $5. 6m under the subsidy arrangement, or that in fact there is a total of only $5. 6m of which $1.6m would be in the form of subsidies? 
I think we should draw attention to the fact that, because no increase has been made in the subsidies provided under this legislation, it has become extremely difficult for the voluntary organisations operating in the community not only to continue with the programs which they already have established but also to expand any of those programs. This afternoon I spoke about the Jesus People in Western Australia. I was disturbed by the reply I received when I asked them what type of meals they would provide because I knew that they would have no idea of the numbers of people they would need to cater for. I was told that in the main it would be stews, casseroles and meals of that nature which could be eked out. When I questioned them how often they would provide people with a roast of beef or lamb they did not bother to answer because they know that they will not be able to do that at any time. 
I think we have to acknowledge that it costs more than 75c to put a person into a bed. It costs more than that just to launder the sheets that a person uses. It costs more than 25c to feed a person. At today's prices, for 25c a person could not even have a bowl of porridge with the necessary milk and sugar to go with it. This means that sooner or later those organisations which are working in that capacity in the community will have to take up other activities to raise funds in order to continue those projects. I would hate to think that those organisations might have to resort, as a lot of women's refuges do, to lamington drives and the like simply in order to provide a service to the needy people of the community. 
I made my plea this afternoon. I simply join with other senators on this side of the chamber in requesting that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  now go back to the Government and ask that more money be made available for this purpose. It is very easy for us in Disarmament Week to spout about the amount of money which is being provided throughout the world for arms and armaments. Today is International Child 's Day. I have not heard any mention being made of that in this Parliament. 
I apologise to  Senator Walters.  I was not in the chamber at that time; obviously I was engaged in other parliamentary duties. Nevertheless, today is International Child 's Day and a lot of children are starving in the Australian community because their parents are starving. Their parents are starving because no work is available. We all admit that over the past few years the level of unemployment has increased dramatically. Whether we want to accept blame or to cast blame on governments or oppositions or whatever really is not the issue. The issue is that there is a high level of unemployment. High numbers of people in the community cannot afford to eat. I simply request that the Minister now go back to the Government and suggest that funds can be made available. As has been suggested already, funds can be made available by imposing higher rates of taxation on the people who are making a profit out of the provision in the community of those very services about which we have spoken so much today. I refer to the food services in the community- to the very small number of people who control the food industry, who dictate not only the price a person will pay for the food but also the quality of the food a person will eat. 
They do, indeed.  Senator Walters  has reminded me that people in that industry employ people. They do not employ people anywhere near in proportion to the amount of profits that they make. We have had evidence to that effect not only before this chamber but also before various committees and non-government organisations throughout the community. It is time now that we sat and had a good, long, hard look at ourselves. The situation will not improve tomorrow. It has not improved in the past four or five years. It will not suddenly be better tomorrow. It certainly will not be better for the majority of the people concerned next week and possibly even next year. By that time the level of unemployment could have risen to such an extent that the figures which have been cited here today will have doubled. 
Before the sitting of the Senate was adjourned last night, I was addressing myself to the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill 1979 and to the amendment moved by my colleague, the Opposition spokesperson on social security,  Senator Grimes.  For the benefit of honourable senators, the amendment reads: 
At the end of motion, add 'but the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should legislate for increases, in line with increased costs caused by inflation, in the food and accommodation subsidy paid to those who provide assistance to homeless persons. '. 

 Senator Mason during his supporting speech last night, provided the Senate with figures which he said related to the situation of homeless persons in Melbourne. I queried whether the figure he mentioned of 7,000 homeless persons could be considered a true and accurate figure. I doubted whether in fact there had ever been a survey done to establish just how many homeless people there are in our communities. I certainly do not know of any such survey. In my mind I am quite positive that one has not been carried out on all of those people whom I consider would come into the category of homeless people in the State of Western Australia. 
I question whether in fact a survey has been done of those people who, I regard, would perhaps constitute tile largest number of homeless people in Western Australia. I refer to the Aboriginal population, a large proportion of whom would be centred on the metropolitan area where they are still in some large numbers sleeping under bridges and sheets of tin, on vacant blocks of land, under trees, in parks or wherever they can get shelter. Of course some of them are aware that shelters are available to them; and they attend these shelters on a fairly regular basis. I do not think these people have been taken into consideration when figures such as 7,000, have been mentioned. I believe that the figures would be much greater in the highly concentrated population areas of Melbourne and Sydney. 
I would think that even the figure of 7,000 would be a conservative estimate in the city of Perth alone. I made the point last night that when my office contacted the Department of Social Security in Perth yesterday it could not obtain any information about the sorts of organisations which had made submissions for assistance under this program and which had had those submissions rejected. I also made the point that the Department of Social Security is obviously not concerned with organisations that are unsuccessful. Yet people in those organisations may be the very people who could give the Department most valuable information as to the number of homeless people in a community. I am rather surprised that the Department of Social Security has not seen the necessity to keep an accurate list of organisations that apply and individuals who apply for grants, no matter under which Act they apply for subsidies. That practice would assist governments in establishing just how many people in the community are disadvantaged in some way. One has to suggest that perhaps these people are considered to be statistically invisible- the unknown. Perhaps there is a department already established that is supposed to cater for their needs even though that department may not be fulfilling their needs. 
As I also mentioned last night, a large number of people have been forced to migrate to the cities from country centres because no work is available for them in the country. These people are mainly young men and women who have found no employment opportunities in their own home-town centres where their parents reside. They then gravitate to the cities. They hope- I think rather vainly at this point in time- that perhaps the situation in the city might be better for them. Many of them are extremely disappointed to find that employment opportunities are just as scarce in those city centres as they are in country centres. Many of them find it impossible to live on $36 a week. I imagine that it would be extremely difficult for any of us in this place to live on $36 a week. It is no less difficult for those young people. I suggest that many of them do in fact join together and live in a communal-type housing area where perhaps they can share the cost of a house or flat. They can share the cost of food and, therefore, be able to eat more cheaply and perhaps at a little higher standard. As a result of all those things, they may even manage to live with a little dignity. 
Some young people are not in a position to take advantage of knowing other people in a like position. I imagine that those people gravitate to crisis centres or refuges. As I have said in this place many times, a number of women's refuges in Perth find that they have to cater for the needs of young women who suddenly find themselves destitute and without a place to stay. For instance, in Perth there is a refuge known as Nardine which has actually taken over a house next door to it. The house has been devoted almost entirely to providing accommodation for young people but it does not qualify for a subsidy. I do not think it would qualify for a subsidy under this Bill either. That disturbs me a great deal. The people who use that service are homeless. Because of their youth, they are possibly more homeless than a lot of other people in the community. All of us are aware that a large number of young people have become unemployed or have never been employed in the community. I think the figure in July last was something like 150,000 young people unemployed and who were under 20 years of age. I imagine that at that age a person is in an extremely disturbing situation when he finds that he is rejected not only once but also sometimes anything up to ten or perhaps 12 times in a week when he applies for a position. He would have $36 a week unemployment benefit coming in and absolutely nowhere to stay. 
A number of crisis centres are run by voluntary organisations. For instance, in Western Australia we have the Jesus People, an organisation amongst a number of others. The Jesus People organisation is the group I know best. Up until May this year it ran a hostel in Adelaide Terrace, Perth- right in the city- which was capable of accommodating 70 people a night. I have been assured that very few nights went by when it was not fully booked out. At times, people were sent to another refuge because the accommodation for them just was not available. The hostel was situated at the old Westminster Hospital. That property was required for a multi-storey development and the facility is now lost. Young homeless people in Perth have lost that facility in the centre of the city. At the moment the Jesus People organisation has a crisis centre which can cater for the needs of some 25 boys and 10 girls, which is a big difference to the 70 people it was accommodating up until May of this year. 
The figure of government subsidies that I was most interested in relates to the financial year ended 30 June 1 979 when the group still had the Westminster Hospital operating as a hostel. In that period it received Federal government subsidies of only $9,344. If one notes the fact that the hostel was almost fully occupied each nightthat is, with up to 70 people- one sees that $9,344 does not go very far. The subsidy not only related to 75c a night a person for accommodation, but also to 25c a meal a person. Of course, the hostel provided far in excess of that number of meals each day. People in the community perhaps would not consider going to a crisis centre and asking for overnight accommodation. They might go for a meal on a onceafortnight basis when they are waiting for their unemployment benefit or pension cheque to come through. They may occasionally go for a meal, possibly once a week. They may be in the habit of going there once a day because they know that the facility is available. I imagine that many of them would go there purely and simply for company because they are so alone and feel so homeless in a society which has virtually turned its back on them. One of the most disturbing elements of my conversation with the Jesus People about homeless people was that I was told that the large majority of homeless people appear to be between the ages of 16 and 19. When I asked them what was the major cause of so many young people being homeless to the extent that they went to crisis centres and to hostels, their spokesperson said, without any hesitation at all: 'Unemployment'. I said, 'Is this unemployment that they are affected by directly, or is this unemployment in their immediate family?' I was told that as a general rule it was their own unemployment that was the cause of their being homeless, because of the effect their being unemployed had on their own immediate family. 
It is not infrequent now for parents of young people to find that they suddenly become unemployed. That creates more tension in the home, and that in turn creates more homelessness in society, because it makes it extremely difficult for a person who has held a job, sometimes for a number of years, to suddenly find out that that job is taken away from him and he is no longer able to be accommodated in another like position. Suddenly he is at home, and if there are already unemployed young people in the same household more tension is created. I believe that governments do have responsibilities to all of these people. We on this side of the chamber are concerned that there has been no increase in the subsidy since it was introduced by the Whitlam Government in 1974, despite the fact that there have been dramatic increases in costs in that time. We believe that it is quite unrealistic for the subsidy to remain at 75c for accomodation and 25c for meals. There has been no recognition even of inflation by the Government in the amendment that has been put forward. 
The second reading speech of the Minister ki Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  referred to the Youth Services Program under which $3m has been offered to State governments on a dollar-for-dollar basis over a three-year period. I must admit that I was concerned that when the Minister originally announced this problem, which from memory was almost on the eve of the Victorian State election, it appeared that Victoria would receive the lion's share of the $3m. I understood her to say at that time that half a million dollars would be allocated to Victoria each year for three years, and that would have meant that only $ 1.5m would be divided among the other States and the Territory over the same three-year period. I am therefore extremely grateful to the Minister and to my colleague,  Senator Grimes,  for the question that was asked at Question Time this afternoon and the reply given by the Minister in which she clarified the situation. That half a million dollars related not only to the Federal Government subsidy but also to the matching dollar-for-dollar by the Victorian State Government. 
I was also under the impression that the Western Australian State Government was not very enchanted with the youth services program and indeed had showed some reluctance to participate. I am feeling quite a bit better about it now that the Minister has clarified it for us and has been able to tell us today that there would be a grant of $83,800 from Federal funding- and one presumes on a dollar-for-dollar basis- an amount in excess of $160,000 available to the people of Western Australia through the State and Federal governments for a much needed program. I do not believe, however, that that is a sufficient amount. At least it is an amount. Perhaps we will see that during the three-year period there will be increases from the federal sphere. 
Whilst I have devoted quite a bit of my speech to the problems of the young people who must be classified as homeless, there are other people in the community who also qualify. I read last night into the  Hansard  the definition that was given by the Law Reform Commission as to who constitutes a homeless person. I have mentioned the Aboriginals, who do not have a permanent residence, and the fact that they are perhaps more obvious in city areas than they might be in outer metropolitan or country areas. Then there are the older people who are perhaps suddenly faced with unemployment and unable to keep up their payments for either rent or the purchase of their home, either for themselves or for themselves and their dependants. They are all homeless people in the strict definition of the word. 
I want to clarify the  Hansard  record, a copy of which I saw this morning, which does not seem to tally with the figures that  Senator Grimes  gave last night. I think it is a simple error. There appears to have been a line left out. The figures which I have had provided to me by the Estimates committee indicate that over the various years there has been an amount of money that has been allocated and a lesser amount spent. I think it is important that the record is set straight. I think it is important for people to realise that these figures are presented by responsible officers of the Department in reply to questions by members of the Senate Estimates committees following the Budget and the Supply Bills each year. 
In 1975-76 the allocation was $4.4m, of which only $ 1.6m was spent. In 1976-77 the allocation was $2.8m, and $ 1.5m was spent. In 1977-78 the allocation was $5. 57m, and $1. 73m was spent. In 1978-79 the allocation was $3. 88m and $2.08m was spent. If we add all those figures together we get a total allocation over those four years of $ 16.65m, and a total amount spent of $6.83m. In other words, more than $10m was returned to the Treasury. I believe that there have been plenty of opportunities for that money to have been spent. I am sure that with the increases in prices and costs the demand for subsidies must have increased over those four years. I am very disturbed to find that there has not been one year when more than half of the money allocated by this Parliament under the homeless persons assistance program has in actual fact been spent and to find that over four years $ 10m, or $2. 5m a year, has been returned to the Treasury. That is nothing short of criminal. 
I believe that people who are considered homeless are extremely vulnerable. Last night we heard  Senator Grimes,  as a medical practitioner, speak of some of the pressures which are being applied to those people and which are affecting their health. I believe that their morale is very low and that the opportunities are always there for people who are homeless, people who do not feel that they are being supported by the community, to venture into petty crime, into problems of drugs which are so prevalent in our community. Governments have to accept some responsibility to ensure that every possible assistance is given to those people who are homeless, in the same way that I expect them to accept their responsibility with regard to those people who are disadvantaged in any way. Those people are part and parcel of the Australian community. They are entitled not only to be accepted by government but also to be treated by the Commonwealth Government and the State Government concerned as  Australian  citizens. I commend  Senator Mason  for the words that he expressed last night, and I support the amendment. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, follows a question that was asked last Tuesday by  Senator Elstob.  I ask: Can the Minister inform the Senate of the nature of the British nuclear tests at Maralinga and in particular whether the experimentation included work on a cobalt bomb? If the answer is in the affirmative, was a cobalt bomb actually developed and /or exploded in the area and what are the implications of the nature and extent of contamination from the dangerous gamma rays that would have been emitted? What arrangements have been made with the United Kingdom Government to provide the Australian Government with a full report on the material removed from Maralinga, or is it just accepted that the only contract with the United Kingdom was that for the removal of the waste deposit? 
I think it is important that I go over a few of the points my colleague from Western Australia, the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack),  has just made. One would have expected that with his legal background he would have known the difference between a price control body and a prices justification body. One is to assess and control and the other one is to assess and force people into justification of an increase in prices. He also seemed a little unaware of why the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices was established. It was not to control prices; it was to investigate price increases for specific manufactured goods. He criticised the fact that we set a level of $20m as the income for companies to which the Prices Justification Act would apply and then said it was necessary because of the inflation rates experienced under the Labor Government to increase this to $30m. I would defy anybody to assess the inflation rate under the Whitlam Government at 50 per cent.  Senator Durack  then tried to blame the PJT for the increase in the rate of inflation. I am sure it would be delighted to think it had that power. He said: 'We had to maintain company profitability'. I intend producing figures in a moment to prove that, in fact, company profitability has been maintained. 
When the Labor Government introduced the Prices Justification Tribunal, it was seen not only by the government of the day but also by consumers, consumer organisations, the trade union movement and even the Press as being perhaps the only means of monitoring prices and having some form of control over unwarranted prices, particularly for essential goods. The $20m was, we believed, a fairly reasonable amount. It certainly was not strict enough to prevent any profitability levels being maintained. I recall as a member of that Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices, together with  Senator Gietzelt,  expressing concern and a feeling of alarm at the amounts of time that were being spent by legal eagles who were employed by very large corporations purely and simply to make application to the Prices Justification Tribunal. Even before one application had been heard by the Tribunal lawyers were already working on their next application.  Senator Gietzelt  will recall our discussions with  Mr Williams  at that time. 
I remind honourable senators- if they need any reminding; we certainly do not on this side of the House-that 1975 was the year of the Liberal-Country Party coup. Immediately prior to the forced election in December of that year the present Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  was already threatening to abolish the PJT on the very grounds that I mentioned earlier- that insufficient profitability levels were being maintained. So it is important to look at the profitability levels. Figures for the operating profits for funds employed for each of the years 1 966-67 to 1976-77 are given in the Industries Assistance Commission annual report. If members on the Government side like to dispute them I suggest they take them up with that body. The figures are as follows: 1966-67, 10.6 per cent; 1967-68, 11.4 percent; 1968-69, 12.6 per cent; 1969-70, 13 per cent; 1970-71, 12.1 percent; 1971-72, 11.5 per cent; 1972-73, 13 per cent; 1973-74- this is the very interesting figure because this is the first year the PJT is supposed to be forcing profitability levels down- 12.6 per cent as against 13 per cent the year before; 1974-75, 12.1 per cent; 1975-76, 13.1 percent; 1976-77, 13.4 per cent. What is this silly nonsense that we have heard today from this Government about the lack of profitability levels available to manufacturers? 
From the outset the Fraser Government has had great ideological objections to the PJT because of the pressure of big business. In 1975 the Prime Minister threatened the Australian people that he would abolish the PJT. Obviously he had second thoughts. Whilst the Government has amended the legislation fairly dramatically it certainly has not done what it threatened to do. The 1976 amendments, which extracted most of the teeth of the PJT, did a number of things. They raised the exemption level from $20m to $30m. They excluded companies not considered in a 'dominant position' from having to notify the PJT of intending increases. They placed greater emphasis on profit restoration. This is what the new legislation said: 
In exercising its functions under sub-section ( 1 ), the Tribunal shall have due regard to the need for the company or companies concerned to achieve a level of profitability that is sufficient to enable the company or companies to maintain an adequate level of investment and employment. 
I have already shown that the increases following the introduction of the PJT were up by something like 3 per cent on 1966-67 prior to its introduction. There can be no doubt that levels of profitability have increased and have been maintained. Following those amendments we saw the PJT in perhaps more of a surveillance role than the role of an effective body to limit excessive price rises. In October last year the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  announced even further changes in an endeavour to emasculate the Tribunal. Those amendments limited even further the number of companies required to notify price rises to the Tribunal. They provided that in future PJT inquiries must have the Minister's approval. Only he could order a public inquiry into any company. No longer could the Prices Justification Tribunal, of its own accord, institute a public inquiry. The price freeze provisions of the Act were modified to allow the PJT to approve interim price increases in the course of a public inquiry. The Minister at that time said that the purpose of the changes was to minimise the regulatory effects of the Prices Justification Tribunal's operation. Honourable senators will remember that those amendments elicited a great deal of condemnation from the trade union movement and from the Press. In fact, the  Australian Financial Review  of 19 October 1978 under the heading PJT Powers are Stripped ' says, in part: 
The Prices Justification Tribunal will lose its powers to initiate public inquiries on its own account under major amendments to the Prices Justification Act . . . 

 Mr Fife announced that the Government had decided that the tribunal could not initiate inquiries without first receiving its approval. 
Of course, what he meant was the Minister's approval. He did not mean the Government's approval but purely and simply his own. The Adelaide  Advertiser  on 1 9 October under the editorial heading 'A risky hand ' said: 
Two simple but nonetheless important questions arise from the Federal Government's latest changes to the Prices Justification Tribunal. The first is why? and the second is why now? 
The  Age  on 19 October 1978 in a comment by Nigel Wilson under the heading 'Fife calls tune in tribunal charade ' said: 
And in the process  Mr Fife  appears to have totally forgotten that the tribunal had an important consumer protection facet- one which his new guidelines seem to ignore. 
Also in the  Age  of 19 October 1978, appears the heading 'Government has slapped union movement in face, Hawke says: PJT loses its teeth: Price rise wave is feared'. Once again, a comment by Nigel Wilson reads: 
The Federal Government has scrapped the price monitoring capacity of the Prices Justification Tribunal, opening the way for a wave of price rises. 
We have seen them increasing not only at the rate of once a week, but also at the rate of two and sometimes three times in the one week on the same article. 
Does the honourable senator not ever do the weekly housekeeping? He should go to the supermarket and talk to the people who have to make their money go round. 
I can name any number of items. Has the honourable senator looked at the price of eggs or the price of salt. In fact, according to surveys that have been done by consumer organisations the one item that has not increased over six months is pepper. How many times a year would anyone buy a container of pepper? 
I am telling the honourable senator that there are items that go up three times in a week. If he speaks to the retailers they will tell him that when their dockets come in they see that sometimes there has been a price change between the time they order the item and the time it arrives in their stores. If the honourable senator does not get out to talk to those - 
Let us look at the price of beef. 
-Yes we did,  Senator. We  said quite a deal about it. At that time we said that the producers of that product were the people who were getting least of the consumer's dollar and that is still the attitude maintained by the Australian Labor Party. The  Canberra Times  on 21 October 1978 published an interesting article headed 'Neither Fish Nor Fowl' but unfortunately I will not have time to read it. I suggest to honourable senators that they read it. Not only has this Government drastically limited the powers of the PJT but it has also severely limited its effectiveness by halving its staff. In 1974- 75 it had a total of 160 people employed. In the first full year of this Government 's reign in 1975- 76 the number of its employees was reduced to 138; in 1976-77 to 116; in 1977-78 1973- 74, 99 and in 1978-79 the PJT is down to a staff of 82 people which is almost half of the 1974- 75 figure. The Budget cuts to the Tribunal have continued each year. In the latest Budget cut the allocation for salaries was reduced in real terms by approximately 1 5. 1 per cent. 
Funds for its computer services have been reduced by up to 53 per cent. Since 1975-76 the notices of price rises processed by the PJT have naturally fallen. If it has not the staff to process them and the guidelines are increased that is a natural extension. In 1973-74, 3,859 notifications were processed. That was the first year of its operation. In 1974-75, 7,502 were processed. In 1975- 76 the figure peaked at 7,739. After the amendments were introduced the figure fell to 4,696 in 1976. After the further amendments it reduced in 1977-78 to 2,244. We have seen the interference not only by this Government but also by a Minister with the the actual workings of the Tribunal. 
If honourable senators look at what happened in the Colgate-Palmolive case- which was a scandal and was designated as such by the members on this side of the House- they will see that the Minister attempted to instruct, perhaps I should say order, the Tribunal not to consider advertising costs as a factor in approving price rises. That is a condemnation of the Minister and a condemnation of the Government of which he is a Minister.  (Quorum formed).  In the short time that is left to me I have time only to thank  Senator Knight,  on behalf of the Labor Party, for making sure that I did not complete my speech! However, I have made all the effective points and I defy the Government to refute them. 
I raise just one issue in the Committee stage of the Local Government (Personal Income Tax Sharing) Amendment Bill. I believe it is a very important issue and one which should have been brought before honourable senators at a much earlier time. It relates, in part, to the actual time of the year when funds are paid to local government authorities. Last weekend I had the opportunity to visit the Shire of Carnarvon in Western Australia. For the information of honourable senators who may not be aware of this, Carnarvon is 610 miles from Perth and 300 miles from its nearest neighbour. On the weekend of 3 and 4 November I was informed that the Shire had not yet received any of its funding. I suggest that that is not a unique position. I anticipate that I am speaking on behalf of all the shires and councils in Western Australia which are finding themselves in equally difficult circumstances. 
I met the Shire President and a number of his councillors and staff. They were all concerned that as each year goes by the payment of funds gets progressively later. I believe that last year it was October and the year before it was late September, early October. We cannot anticipate that shires or local authorities will be able to do the work on the projects that are so vital in those remote areas of Australia, any more than we can anticipate that they can do the work in the more densely populated areas, if we do not ensure that their funding is received at a much earlier time in the year. We are now well into November. The shires are anticipating that it could be at least the end of this month before any funding is received. That simply means that projects have to be halted, or money which is ear-marked for other projects has to be used for particular works, or work has to be done on credit. That is not a perfect situation for any shire. 
When people live in a State such as Western Australia, where most of the country centres consider themselves isolated, I think we have a responsibility to ensure that their funding is made at a proper and due time so that they can budget correctly for their entire term and so that they know and their constituencies know exactly what can be done, what it is expected will be done and when it can be done. 
I draw the attention of the Attorney-General to a question without notice asked by  Senator Missen  on 17 October to which I understand there has been no reply. I remind the Attorney-General that there are a number of honourable senators on this side of the chamber who are extremely interested in this issue. The question was: 
Will the Attorney-General tell the Senate whether he has received from Amnesty International, the United Nations Associations, civil liberties organisations and other bodies submissions in connection with the Human Rights Commission Bill and the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill which have not yet been debated in the Senate? 
In his reply to  Senator Missen,  the Minister said: 
I will take note of the question  Senator Missen  has asked and give consideration to it. 
I now ask: As this matter is now due for debate in this place later this day, has he given consideration to that request and will information on it be given to all honourable senators prior to the commencement of the debate? 
I want to say a few words on the statement brought down by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  on this matter. It is now five years since the Family Law Act was instituted and there have been a great number of expressions of concern in the community at the time span between the presentation of the Bill, the passing of it by this Parliament and the setting up of the Institute of Family Studies. We recognise some of the difficulties with the technicalities of the Act and the amendments that were necessary for it to be possible for the Institute to be set up. Nevertheless we are disturbed at a general constant theme of submissions coming before the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Family Law Act which has recognised the importance of such an Institute and at the dearth of information which is available in the community. 
The Attorney-General in his statement has not mentioned the actual duties of  Dr Edgar  and we would hope that, as well as advising and assisting the Attorney-General in relation to making grants, there will be provision for the setting up of research sectors within the Institute itself, so that the Institute will be entirely independent in some areas for its own research. We hope that  Dr Edgar  will not only promote the encouragement and co-ordination of research but also that he will be responsible for bringing to the attention, not only of this Parliament but also to the people of Australia the very important things that are at issue with our family situation. We have been unable, on many occasions, to obtain information which we considered vitally necessary for the presentation of a report to this Parliament because no one has been doing any research in this area. The appointment is at least a start. 
I have to come back to the statement that I originally made. It is now five years since the Act was instituted. The appointment not being taken up until February means that we have another three months time lag and there will, of necessity, be something like 12 months before the Institute will, in actual fact, be able to provide us with figures which we consider to be of vital importance for our community life. 
