-The Government and the Opposition have expressed congratulations to you,  Mr President.  I should like to associate myself with those sentiments. The fact that you come from one of the less populous but nonetheless important States is significant for the future of the Federation. In addition, it is apparent from what has been said that you have the fairness which your office demands. I therefore look forward to serving in this Senate with you as  President. 
-I associate myself with the remarks made and congratulate  Senator Drake-Brockman.  I look forward to working with him in this chamber on committees. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. It concerns the Administrative Review Committee chaired by  Sir Harry  Bland. Will the Minister obtain an assurance from the Prime Minister that the Committee, in its examination of FederalState relations, pays particular attention to the paucity of Commonwealth Government expenditure being directed to the smaller States? I am particularly concerned about Commonwealth expenditure in the administrative and production areas of employment and believe that my State, Tasmania, is not receiving its fair share of this expenditure in the form of contracts, administrative services, etc. If this matter is not receiving consideration by the Administrative Review Committee, will the Minister ask the Prime Minister to direct the Committee to examine it? 

 -Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the expressions of condolence upon the death of Tun Abdul Razak. I had the privilege of meeting Tun Razak when representing the Australian Council of Trade Unions at a conference in Kuala Lumpur. He was an unassuming, modest man, but a very able administrator. One of the greatest disappointments of his life was his need to suspend for a short time the Constitution of Malaysia, as he himself was one of the architects of that Constitution. I join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  in expressing condolence to his family and to the nation of Malaysia. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
My question follows that asked by  Senator McAuliffe  and is directed also to the Minister representing the Treasurer in this place. Is it a fact that the new Australian Savings Bonds Series 1 which were issued from 23 January and which are now closed were designed especially to appeal to the smaller investors and savers? Is the Minister in a position to advise the Senate whether the claim is correct that wealthy financial companies and nominee companies rushed to subscribe to the bonds at the very generous interest rate of 10.5 per cent? Whilst wealthy profiteering companies would grasp at any opportunity like this, especially when the only restriction imposed by the Government was a limit on the amount of bonds which one subscriber could take out, will the Government note what has happened on this occasion and frame its conditions for any future special savings bonds in a more appropriate manner? 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I appreciate the suggestion that I should receive the usual courtesies but I am reminded that I have spoken 3 times in this place already and I feel that if any honourable senator wishes to make an objective interruption during my speech I should be happy to receive that sort of assistance. I am not unused to it.  Mr President,  I stand here in rather an unusual position. Never have I had a desire to enter this place. As some honourable senators would know and as most people in the State from which I come would know, at any time in the last 10 years I could have sought and obtained preselection for this place. But I am a trade unionist. I have been a full time union official for over 1 7 years. That is my love; that was my life. I was committed to uplifting the poor, to championing the cause of the underprivileged- not only in this country but also in the developing countries to our near north- and to representing the aspirations of the workers. In fact, I was committed to giving effect to the objectives of the body of which I had the honour to be the secretary, namely, the Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council. That first of those objectives is to contribute to the development of an economic and social order in which people can live with freedom and dignity and pursue both their spiritual development and material well-being in conditions of economic security and equal opportunity. 
Why, then, am I here? I am here because, after years of constant, unremitting, relentless pressure being directed at me by the extreme Left coalition forces- a pressure designed to so muddy the industrial pool with political invective as to cut away support from me in a key position in the trade union movement- a situation arose last year in which for days and weeks on end I simply had to put aside the work that I was doing for the people that I represented just to defend myself. Of course that was counter productive. I was elected to the position to represent the workers and in having to spend my time simply in defending myself I felt I was getting nowhere. I was not achieving the objectives of those for whom I was attempting to fight. There was in fact a road block. It required a detour to be taken and it may be- I hope I am right- that I have found the highway upon which I can advance the objectives of the people that I represent, namely, the people of Tasmania. 
Why was all that pressure exercised? Because almost 10 years ago I declared that the friends of the communists were attempting to silence me. I have never been silenced by the friends of the communists and I do not intend to be silenced by them in this chamber. I have a great deal of admiration for those workers who suffer silently in the slave camps of Soviet Russia. I have a great admiration for the writers who are brave enough to express their thoughts and suffer as a consequence. We all have a great admiration for those men and women. And why? Because they hurl courage and truth into the teeth of totalitarian power when it would be so much easier, so much more comfortable to submit and to embrace the lies on which that totalitarian system exists. 
Speaking of power, we heard  Senator Gietzelt  last night give a lecture to the new senators about power. We heard him say these words: 
But what has to be said and certainly what the newlyelected senators have to learn is that what one says in this place has very little relevance, very little value, in terms of parliamentary democracy, in terms of one's contribution to the maintenance of parliamentary democracy and in terms of one's understanding of the way in which our society operates. 

 Senator Gietzelt then posed the question as to where the real source of power exists. There are only 2 things wrong with that statement, one being that  Senator Gietzelt  did not tell us the sources of power with which he is very familiar, the second being that he rather sneeringly inferred that all senators- not only the new senators but all of us- were wasting our time in this place. An opportunity will be given tonight to honourable senators on both sides of the House to show whether we are wasting our time. From what I heard of their speeches, I do not think that the new senators were wasting their time and I believe that together we will see whether the power can be restored to the people through the system of parliamentary democracy. 
Ideally, in a parliamentary democracy power should be exercised in consultation and cooperation with elective organisations within the community, in preserving the integrity of institutions within society and in recognising that power should be kept close to the people and not manipulated by the corporate State method. I subscribe to the view that power should reside with the smallest, most local group capable of performing efficiently the function for which the power is required so that the people over whom the power is exercised themselves have a greater control, a nearer control over the centre of power. Rather than sneering at the new senators, I should like to associate myself with those who have congratulated them for their sincere and erudite speeches, which will go down in the records of Parliament. I have already had the honour of congratulating you,  Mr President,  and of congratulating  Senator Tom  DrakeBrockman. I am sure that the new senators will strive to represent their States fairly. I, with my colleagues from Tasmania I hope, certainly will fight for that State's rights. But that State's rights depend on a defence of the rights of this House. Surely honourable senators will recall a recent Gallup poll which showed that 91 per cent of Tasmanians subscribe to the view that there should be equality of representation in this House from each of the States and that 8 1 per cent of the whole of Australia felt that this House should be a genuine house of review. 
It is my intention to have circulated an amendment to the Address-in-Reply motion. The amendment will give honourable senators an opportunity to indicate whether they regard this House as a house of review and also a States' rights House. Let historians argue about whether or not the power exercised last November by this House was used prematurely. That is a debatable question and it will have to be answered by historians, and the Prime Minister of this country will have to face their judgment. On the one hand, there is the argument that the Senate should not have power over money Bills. On the other hand, the statement has been made that the Senate has the power and passed its test by blocking Supply last year. That has been the burden of the argument in this chamber over the last week. On the one hand there has been an argument that this House should not have the power to block money Bills and on the other hand there has been the argument that this House passed its test last year. It is certainly an incontrovertible fact that the Senate has power over money Bills. But the crucial test was not last November; the crucial testing time is at hand now. I should like to foreshadow the amendment that has been circulated, which goes to amend the AddressinReply motion by adding the following words:   . . and the Senate is of the opinion that your advisers, having declared their intention of taking particular care over the special circumstances of the less populous States, should obtain the approval of those States prior to the implementation of your adviser's new approach to federalism. 
Of all the issues that might come before this Senate- this place which was formed as a result of the constitutional conferences, this place in which it was agreed by the States that they would have equality of representation as a precondition for their joining the federation- what is the most significant issue in that sense? Surely it is the question of federalism. Very little has been said about that subject in the Address-in-Reply debate. In opening the Parliament, the GovernorGeneral in his Speech referring to the policy of the Government said:   . . the Government proposes to make the most important reform of the Federal system since Federation. Its core will be the principle of tax sharing. 
I ask the Senate: What about those States which do not come up to the tax capacity of the larger States? The Speech continues: 
The possibilities of this new approach to Federalism are demonstrated by the recent Premier's Conference. 
I do not know, frankly, what the recent Premier's Conference demonstrated . at all because my reading of the comments made by the various Premiers was that they each had a different view of the proposals put forward at that conference. 
The Governor-General said further: 
The working of our governmental system has been corroded by the absence of reasonable financial autonomy for the States. 
I will go along with that. The Speech continues: 
In making these reforms, particular care will have to be taken over the special circumstances of the less populous States to ensure that they are in no way disadvantaged. 
I ask: Disadvantaged from what standard? 
I normally do not quote from professors because some of their views are 'way out'. But I turn to a very interesting article entitled  Fraser's Federalism different- but tantalisingly vague,  by the Associate Professor of Economics at the University of Sydney.  His  name is  Dr P.  J. Groenewegen. He says: 
The problem which has received most publicity in this concept of income tax revenue sharing is the plight of smaller' States, if the income tax proportion going to the States is distributed according to origin, as it must under this proposal. In the absence of massive equalisation grants, this would mean a huge distribution of income from Queensland. South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania towards New South Wales and Victoria. 
I, as a senator from Tasmania, having regard to the plight of that State and to the crucial issuecash which is required to ensure an adequate standard of employment and an adequate standard of living for the citizens of this State must ask the Government for more detail, must press the issue before this States House, and do so in the manner that I have done, that is, by proposing to move an amendment to the AddressinReply motion, so that these matters can bc thoroughly examined and so that the States themselves have the right to say whether this is on or whether it is not. 

 Mr President, whilst honourable senators arc looking at my amendment and considering which one of them will second it, I wish to pass on to some other issues. I know that the time is late. I will not bore the Senate by going through all of the issues that I would like to raise at this time. But there are two or three matters that I wish to discuss. First, I turn to the GovernorGeneral's Speech and congratulate the Government or the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  whichever it was, for the wording of that document. I do not think anybody can object to the words that are contained in this document. But it is action that will count as well as some of the aspects which are not contained in that document. 
Let us turn our attention to women. What does the Speech say about women? The document says: 
The Government is firmly committed to furthering the equality of opportunity for women in education, employment and in public life. The Government will encourage the full participation of women in all aspects of Australian life u&gt; ensure that their contribution of skills and talents is used lo the full. The Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation Scheme to be introduced shortly has been amended to make better provision for women employed by the Government. 
What about the majority of women? What about the most discriminated against of all women in this country? I refer to the woman who, under a great deal of economic pressure, decides to do the most important job in this community- that is, the mother who stays home, who looks after and who nurtures her children into good citizens? What about her? Nothing is said about her at all. 
In what other occupation does a person work 1 6 hours a day, 7 days a week and is on call at night with no holidays or any sick leave? She is a nurse, an educator, a physiologist and a psychologist- those great occupations? What other person in this community is so discriminated against because of the lack of attention to that person over a long period of years? What is the Government going to do to ease the economic burden thrust upon that person and the consequent psychological problems that sometimes result? We know what has happened; 40 per cent of them have gone into the workforce to make ends meet or to keep up with the standards that are imposed by the advertising moguls of this country - 
Or because they want to. Of course. Married women should have a true freedom of choice but they should not be forced through economic circumstances- and that is the situation at present- to go out to work in order to maintain a decent standard of living. Perhaps, if the Government turned its attention to that matter, some of the unemployment problem that this nation faces might be diminished in some measure. 
Why were married women forced into the workforce? It was a deliberate plan by the employers and the then government in the 1 960s, together with the Department of Labour and National Service, to recruit married women into the workforce as a source of cheap labour. That is what it was all about. When the trade union movement- nobody else, but the trade union movement- won the true equal pay case in 1973, a situation developed where, because minimum wages had not been raised to acceptable levels many of those women remained in the workforce simply to maintain family economic standards. 
The second point to which I wish to come is the statement made about our near neighbours in South East Asia. 'Within South East Asia, Australia has particularly good relations with the ASEAN group of countries', says the GovernorGeneral's Speech. It continues: 
The Government will seek ways of expanding cooperation with them both individually and as a group as well as maintaining and developing substantive communications with all the countries in the Asia-Pacific area. 
Communications and co-operation are mentioned, but what about aid? Governments must realise, as I realise, having worked on and off in the area for some time over the last 10 years and particularly over the last 2 years, that, with the withdrawal of the United States influence in the area and its recent failure to match its military capabilities with political commitment, the individual nations in South East Asia are becoming a prey to the protagonists of the Sino-Soviet dispute. What is Australia doing about that? I know that most peoples of nations in the area do not wish to be associated with the Sino-Soviet dispute. I know that there are massive diplomatic offensives by the Soviet in those countries and within particular institutions to get their members to go to the Soviet Union to learn their system of totalitarianism. What are we doing about it? What are we doing to assist trade unionists and their organisations in these countries? What are we doing for other institutions in these countries to foster the ideals of grass-roots democracy? 
The other point I want to mention briefly is decentralisation. Over many years now lip service has been given to decentralisation; but when it has come to putting the hand in the pocket governments have been found wanting.  Mr President,  I have only a brief time left. I point out that one of the grave problems faced by centralisation in the major cities is that now only one wage earner in six can afford to finance land and a home, compared with 90 per cent of wage earners in 1964. The Government should contemplate those figures and act in accordance to remedy this situation. 
Equality of representation in the Senate from the States was regarded by the States at Federation as the guarantor that the economic lifeblood of the Federation could, if necessary, be forcibly pumped to its extremities on the basis that if those extremities started dying off the whole body Federation becomes ill. That is what concerns me about the unexplained features of the new federalism policy of the Government. Maybe I am wrong. I hope that the amendment which I am about to move will be carried because I hope and I trust that every honourable senator will seek to obtain clarity on this matter and will see that the State parliaments have a right to say whether they will accept the new federalism policy or not. I move: 
That the following words be added to the AddressinReply: 'and the Senate is of the opinion that your advisers, having declared their intention of taking particular care over the special circumstances of the less populous States, should obtain the approval of those States prior to the implementation of your advisers ' new approach to Federalism '. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce in his capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer. The Minister will recall that last Thursday in the Senate he promised to obtain further information for me in respect of subscriptions to the Australian Savings Bonds, series 1, He will be aware also that on the evening following my question the Treasurer admitted that the bonds had attracted 'some large subscriptions from institutions and professional investors.' Is the Minister yet in a position to provide the Senate with the promised information, particularly the role played by 'professional investors '? 
I will not traverse the issues that have already been covered. The position has been put very clearly. All that has been said about this Bill has been put very succinctly. I think that logic is certainly on this side of the chamber with regard to this particular piece of legislation. I propose to vote against the provisions in these clauses because I believe that the Government is acting in some haste to get them through when certain questions still remain to be answered. I do not see why the disadvantaged of this community should bear the brunt of Government attempts to reduce disproportionately the rate of inflation. I also feel that there are many people in the State of Tasmania, from which I come, who, if they have a number of children, will not be able to go to a public hospital, wait around and then obtain their prescriptions from that hospital. This will be the case particularly in a very populous area of the State which has been affected by the fall of the Tasman Bridge. I think that it would be better for the Government to delay consideration of this Bill until all the facts are to hand. 
I for one am waiting for some information which has not yet come to hand. I would have liked to have heard from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  what practical steps the Department of Health is taking to reduce the bureaucratic expenses that are involved in servicing the benefit. These expenses amount to almost half the cost of the benefit. If the Government is seeking to reduce spending it should let honourable senators know precisely what it intends to do, rather than abolishing altogether the benefits of which at least some of the low income families and groups have availed themselves. I propose to vote against the clauses. 

<graphic href="067232197602264_28_3_1_A.jpg"></graphic>

Question clauses stand as printed. 
I rise to speak to sub-section (3) of clause 4 of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill. I have listened to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood),  who represents the Attorney-General in this place. In his explanation the Minister has valiantly tried to explain the clauses of this Bill. He said that the reason the Australian Industrial Court was mentioned at all in clause 4 was that section 33 of the Trade Practices Act provided that the  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal should be paid the same rate as the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court. I understand that is what the Minister said. My point simply is that -I am not pressing this matter with a great deal of vehemence- as a trade unionist I object to the Australian Industrial Court being mentioned at all in a Bill dealing with the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, ls the Minister aware of the existence of a dispute which could result in all inward and outward Tasmanian shipping cargoes being brought to a standstill within the next few days? Is the Minister aware that the proximate cause of this situation arises from the refusal of the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour to make arrangements with the Australian Foremen Stevedores Association to introduce a guaranteed wage for five of its members who are the only casual workers in the main Tasmanian ports denied this wage? Is the Minister aware that this continued refusal is despite a request by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that the AEWL enter into meaningful discussions with the AFSA and the fact that Tasmanian companies involved in stevedoring operations generally support the workers? If the Minister is aware of this situation, will he impress upon the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour in Sydney the importance of this matter to Tasmania and the need for it to rectify the discrimination against those 5 workers and to avoid the unnecessary action which would result therefrom? 
If I am permitted I would like to oppose the motion moved by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers).  I do so because it appears to me, as a new senator, on reading the Standing Orders that they are designed to ensure the passage of the motion or amendments to the 
Address-in-Reply before any Government business is dealt with. I would like the Leader of the Government to indicate why there is such a great urgency for the Bills to be dealt with, particularly the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. As I understand it, that Bill is precisely the same as the Bill that was introduced when the previous Government was in power. 
I assure the Leader of the Government and the Opposition that I am not prepared to allow this BUI to go through this place without any proper consideration, which apparently has not been given it until this point of time. I am in a difficult situation because this is the first inkling I have had that this legislation would be introduced as a matter of urgency. I feel that the Government would be well advised not to proceed with this matter until the conclusion of the debate on the Address-in-Reply. If the Senate wishes to have these Bills proceed through this chamber without the proper attention they deserve, it will pass the motion now before the Chair. 
I shall deal mainly with the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. Before I do that I shall refer briefly to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation 
Bill. I mentioned when I rose before to oppose the re-arrangement of business to allow this legislation to be debated now that I believed that the Government should consider its position. As far as the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill is concerned, I admit that there is some urgency. Obviously,  Mr Justice  Woodward has to be appointed DirectorGeneral of ASIO. Therefore an enabling Bill must be passed through the Senate in order that that can be effected. However, I express concern that in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill reference is made to the Australian Industrial Court. I refer the chamber to proposed new section 6a, of which sub-section (3) states:  "(3) If the Director-General is a Judge, other than Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court, and the rate per annum of his salary as a Judge is less than the rate per annum of the salary applicable to the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court, he shall be paid additional salary at a rate equal to the difference between the rates of those salaries, and, if the rate per annum of his annual allowance as a Judge is less than the rate per annum of the annual allowance applicable to the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court, he shall be paid additional annual allowance at a rate equal to the difference between the rates of those annual allowances. 
That simply means that the prospective incumbent of the job ought to be paid what he is being paid now, namely, his salary as  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal. Why did not the Government say precisely that in the legislation. As a trade unionist I object to the name of the Australian Industrial Court being used in a Bill relating to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. I know that there is no similarity between the ASIO and the KGB. We all know also that the previous incumbent of the position of Director of the KGB was the so-called  president  of the AUCCTU of Russia. Any link between the industrial system of a country and the intelligence organisation, albeit simply a mention of a name in a Bill, should be opposed. I suggest to the Government that it should rephrase proposed new section 6a (3) of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill. It should say what it means which is that  Mr Justice  Woodward should receive the salary he is now receiving, namely, the salary which applies to the  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal. 
But I do not want to talk about ASIO. I agree with other speakers who have said that an intelligence organisation is necessary in any country. I do, however, want to refer to the Bill for an Act to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, 
It is basic to the implementation of any industrial policy, good or bad, that an entity such as the Australian Industrial Court should exist and that it should command the respect and obedience of the trade union movement. Does the Government agree with that? Does the Opposition agree with that? If they do, let us examine the situation of the Australian Industrial Court. Might I say that this has nothing to do with my being a party to the longest running case before the Industrial Court, which has cost the taxpayers of Australia $250,000 in the last year and which is now before the High Court of Australia. 
The case of  Egan v Harradine and Others. 

 - Mr Egan. Let me point out firstly that the Bill which is currently before the Senate is precisely the same Bill as was introduced by the Whitlam Government last year. Let me refer to something that the Opposition in the House of Representatives at that stage said.  Mr Howard  then led the case for the Opposition.  Mr Howard,  who is now the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, had this to say - 
-I am trying to assist.  Mr Howard  had this to say: 
So I say at the outset that the Opposition is concerned that the Commonwealth Industrial Court may not have a sufficient work load to justify the appointment of an additional judge. 
He went on to say: 
We will not oppose the second reading of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, but I emphasise again that the Opposition reserves the right when this Bill comes before another place - 
He was referring, of course, to the Senate-  to take a different attitude. We are of the opinion, on the basis of information and also our own assessment of the situation, that there is no justification for the appointment of an extra judge, that the work load of the court is not increasing. Therefore, if on further assessment and consideration of the information supplied by the Government we remain convinced that there is no justification for appointing an extra judge, it will be our intention to take in another place a different attitude from the attitude taken here. 
I wonder what has changed between November and the current date. 
Yes, the Government has changed, but I say that nothing in the Industrial Court sphere has changed other than the fact that there has been the appointment of 

 Mr Justice Woodward to ASIO and that another judge is likely to come back full time to the work of the Industrial Court and be able to fill his place. I go back to 1973 when the spokesman on this subject for the then Opposition in this House,  Senator Greenwood,  had certain things to say about a proposal by the then Government, which introduced the Bill in the lower House- the Bill was introduced by  Mr Clyde  Cameron- that, as I recall it, there be no limit to the number of judges appointed to the Industrial Court. The following words were used by  Senator Greenwood: 
But leaving that aside, the substantive amendment seeks to remove the limitation on the number of members of the court from not more than 7 other judges after the appointment of a Chief Judge and to substitute the words: 
Such number of other judges as are appointed from time to time. 
In short, instead of the court being limited to, in total, 8 members it would be a court of an unlimited membership. The Opposition believes that the amendment in this area is unnecessary. 
Therefore  Senator Greenwood  moved that the provision in this respect be omitted. He went on to say that the court certainly was not overworked. I have obtained figures from the Parliamentary Library which show that the court is certainly not overworked at the present moment.  Senator Greenwood  went on to say: 
I know that in earlier years when I had a ministerial responsibility which comprehended a responsibility for these judges, the number of days and hours upon which they were engaged in matters in the industrial jurisdiction would have been the envy, I would think, of every Australian. 
I go along with that, particularly in the circumstances at the present moment whereby the Government is trying to cut down on Public Service expenditure and yet in this Bill it is attempting to increase Government expenditure by appointing a new judge to the Industrial Court. 
I propose now to analyse the situation as regards this Bill. Section 98 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act says: 
There shall be a federal court to be known as the Australian Industrial  Court,  which- 
shall consist of a Chief Judge and not more than 9 other Judges; and 
shall be a Superior  Court  of Record. 
We heard  Senator Button  say very well and succinctly that this court has the overview of the organisation provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. As I said at the beginning, it is basic to the implementation of any industrial policy that the entity of the Australian Industrial Court should command the respect of the parties to that system. But I venture to say that the current Industrial Court does not command the respect of the parties to that system, as witness what was said by  Senator Button. 
Let me take the Senate into an area in which we can examine the situation in regard to the Industrial Court and the history of this legislation. The maximum number of judges in addition to the Chief Judge was increased from two to three in 1960 and from three to four in 1964. There was an increase from four to six in 1966, from six to seven in 1969 and in 1973 the number of judges on the bench was increased from seven to nine. Now, we see an attempt to increase that number to ten. 
I should have said that in 1973 the number of judges on the bench was increased from seven to nine. Now we have before us a Bill which seeks to increase the number to ten. Soon it will be possible to hold a mass meeting of Industrial Court Judges. 
The judges appointed since 1 December 1972 are very significant. We have  Mr Justice  J. B. Sweeney who was appointed on 10 December 1973. Previously, he was a  Deputy President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. We have  Mr Justice  P. G. Evatt who was appointed on 2 July 1974 with very little industrial experience. We saw the appointment of  Mr Justice  R. J. B. St John, similarly qualified, from 15 April 1975. I am not reflecting at all on the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  who is in charge of the Bill. It is now proposed to increase the number of judges, other than the Chief Judge, from nine to ten to cover the transfer (but not the retirement) of  Mr Justice  Woodward to the position of Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation.  Mr Justice  Woodward will retain his judicial status during his occupancy of the position of Director-General of ASIO. He is hanging his hat on the Australian Industrial Court. Why should this be so? 
Similarly several of the Industrial Court judges, in addition to holding that position, are also judges of other courts coming within Federal Government jurisdiction. I will delineate them: Dunphy, J.- Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, Supreme Court of Norfolk Island, Supreme Court of Christmas Island and Supreme Court of Cocos (Keeling) Islands; Joske, J.- Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, Supreme Court of Norfolk Island; Smithers, J.- Supreme Court of the Australian 
Capital Territory, Supreme Court of the Northern Territory; Nimmo, J. does not have duties other than those involved in the Australian Industrial Court, except those that I will refer to later; Woodward, J.- Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, Supreme Court of the Northern Territory,  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal since 1 October 1974 and now appointed as Director-General of ASIO; Franki, J.- Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, Supreme Court of the Northern Territory,  Deputy President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal, Copyright Tribunal; Sweeney, J.- from 5 September 1974, Supreme Court of the Austraiian Capital Territory; Evatt, J.- Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory from 6 September 1974; St John, J.- appointed to Industrial Court on 15 April 1974, no appointment in addition to that. Honourable senators might be surprised that there a members of the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory who are not Industrial Court judges. In the Australian Capital Territory they include  Mr Justice  Fox,  Mr Justice  Blackburn and  Mr Justice  Connor. In the Northern Territory, they are  Mr Justice  Forster,  Mr Justice  Muirhead and  Mr Justice  Ward. 
As  Senator Button  said, over the years and more frequently over recent years, judges of the Industrial Court have been called on to perform assignments- not Industrial Court assignmentsrequiring their absence from the court in some cases for several months. For example, let us take  Mr Justice  Woodward. Honourable senators will remember that we are expected to approve of an increase in the establishment of the Industrial Court to fill the vacancy which will be created by the departure of  Mr Justice  Woodward. How long has  Mr Justice  Woodward spent in the work of the Industrial Court.  Mr Justice  Woodward has been inquiring into Aboriginal conditions, from which emerged the Woodward report on that subject, and into the pay and conditions of the armed Services. I will tell honourable senators how long he spent on the bench of the Industrial Court during the last 12 months. He spent 28 days. I will tell honourable senators what he did in 1974, the year before. In 1974 he spent 16 days on the work of the Australian Industrial Court; in 1973, he spent 2 days sitting in the Industrial Court; in 1972, he spent only one day sitting in the Industrial Court. Yet the Government is asking us to approve of the appointment of another judge to take his place. I say to Government supporters: What about the screams that are coming from your own public servants about cutting down on their employment? Yet the Government is trying to increase the number of judges on the Industrial Court. 
That is a good thought. The Chief Judge,  Sir John  Spicer, has on numerous occasions presided over courts of marine inquiry and inquiries into air accidents. He is an Australian Industrial Court Judge and is now also the  president  of the Copyright Tribunal.  Mr Justice  Eggleston resigned on 30 June 1974. He carried out inquiries and presented reports on the salaries of staffs of universities. 
It may have been a great contribution but we are talking about the Australian Industrial Court.  Mr Justice  Sweeney has made inquiries into indemnity payments. Of course, he also inquired into the  Moore v. Doyle  situation. Let us have a look at the appointments that have been made since December 1972. The 3 appointments to the Industrial Court since 1972 have all been made from the Sydney Bar.  Mr Justice  Sweeney, Q.C., was a senior counsel engaged in diverse industrial cases as well as in a number of other matters. The other 2 appointments,  Mr Justice  Evatt and  Mr Justice  St John were in fact virtually unknown in the Federal industrial arena and were not greatly known in the State industrial arena. 
Let me delineate the dates of appointment and the ages of judges appointed prior to 1972. The Chief Judge,  Mr Justice  Spicer, was appointed in 1956.  His  date of birth was 5 March 1899 and his age is seventy-six.  Mr Justice  Dunphy was appointed in 1956.  His  date of birth was 18 June 1907 and he is 68 years of age.  Mr Justice  Joske was appointed in 1960.  His  date of birth was 5 October 1 895 and he is aged eighty.  Mr Justice  Smithers was appointed in 1965.  His  date of birth was 3 February 1903 and he is 73 years of age.  Mr Justice  Nimmo was appointed in 1969. He was born on 5 January 1909 and he is 66 years of age.  Mr Justice  Woodward, whom the Government is now transferring to other spheres, was appointed in 1972.  His  date of birth is 6 August 1928 and he is forty-seven years of age. 
Yes.  Mr Justice  Franki was appointed in 1972. He was born on 23 June 1915 and he is aged sixty. Tonight we are being asked by the Government to approve the appointment of another Industrial Court judge. I have obtained from the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library- a very good service indeed; I did not know it existed until I fronted up to the Federal Executive- material setting out the number of sitting days of members of the Industrial Court from 197 1 to 1975. 1 seek leave to have the document incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="067232197603023_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

That document mentions that  Mr Justice  Nimmo was seconded to the position of Chief Justice of Fiji. Since his return he has resided in Canberra and had appeared only infrequently on the Australian Industrial Court Bench. However, on the basis that his Norfolk Island assignment was supposed to be completed by the end of last year, he should be available for Industrial Court work in 1 976, thus providing an effective replacement for  Mr Justice  Woodward. Has the Minister thought of that? Here we have a judge of the Australian Industrial Court who over the last few years has done very little work in the Industrial Court- he did no work in 1972, none in 1973, 6 days in 1974 and 8 days in 1975. Now that he is returning to the Industrial Court he surely will be able to take up the slack, which will be caused by the transfer of 

 Mr Justice Woodward to the DirectorGeneralship of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. 
I ask honourable senators to bear in mind that last year  Mr Justice  Woodward spent 28 days sitting on the Australian Industrial Court Bench. Surely  Mr Justice  Nimmo will be able to take up that slack. During the past 1 8 months  Mr Justice  Nimmo has been virtually full-time on the Norfolk Island inquiry.  Mr Justice  Sweeney, as honourable senators would know, has been engaged on the maritime inquiry concerning indemnity payments and prior to that on the  Moore v. Doyle  inquiry. The Chief Judge,  Mr Justice  Spicer, and  Mr Justice  Dunphy have conducted maritime collision inquiries.  Mr Justice  Woodward, as  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal, has been engaged on trade practices matters which, in addition to becoming more numerous, are by their very nature lengthy in their hearing. Prior to that, he spent several months on the Aboriginal inquiry.  Mr Justice  Franki is dealing with matters relating to copyright. In addition to all of this, various judges are engaged from time to time in their parallel duties in Canberra as judges of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. I have enumerated who they are. The departure of  Mr Justice  Woodward virtually coincides with the return of  Mr Justice  Nimmo, whose Norfolk Island inquiry, was expected to finish at the end of last year. The Minister may correct me if I am wrong but I believe it has conculded. 
I understand that the inquiry may have finished. I have said it twice. What I am simply saying is that it is a case of one off, one on. 
I am sorry. 
It is a different Nimmo. The transport inquiry. 
I see. If all the judges excluding  Mr Justice  Woodward were available all the time for Industrial Court matters, there would be sufficient judges to cope with such matters. For a start, there would be sufficient for 2 full benches. I remind the Minister that on a 

<graphic href="067232197603023_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

number of occasions when the trade unions have had matters before the Australian Industrial Court it has had to wait because there were not sufficient full time practitioners in the Australian Industrial Court to provide 2 full benches. 
Two significant results would arise from having a. complete availability of judges. Firstly, the Industrial Court would be able to operate with the same degree of regularity, continuity and stability as do the High Court and the Supreme Courts of the States. Secondly, the reputation and effectiveness of the Industrial Court would be enhanced because of its increased efficiency and capacity to deal more readily with matters coming before it. 
To replace  Mr Justice  Woodward with another judge would simply perpetuate the present unsatisfactory situation which has grown in recent years, whereby judges of the Industrial Court are available for Industrial Court matters only if they are not engaged on non-industrial matters. Reminiscent of what  Senator Button  said, the Australian Industrial Court has been regarded as the 'grab-all' by the Government to have judges appointed and then hived off into other areas. 
Arrangements should be made for the nonindustrial court matters to be dealt with in 2 ways. Firstly, a specific judge or judges of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory should be appointed to head the Trade Practices Tribunal. This would, at one stroke, remove from the Industrial Court the need to have one of its own judges on the Trade Practices Tribunal and also sitting in Canberra on the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court. It would be preferable to appoint an additional judge, or judges to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory Supreme Courts and allow them to be used for extra-curricular jobs, thus leaving all the Industrial Court judges free to deal full time with the more sensitive and more nationally important work of the Industrial Court. Secondly, senior barristers should be appointed to conduct inquiries into matters such as maritime collisions, instead of relying on the use of personnel from the Industrial Court and so denuding that body of the expertise which is required for the functioning of the Australian industrial conciliation and arbitration system. 
There is one further aspect of Industrial Court activity, recently expanded, which should receive attention. More and more charges relating to breaches of Commonwealth awards are being laid as a result of the appointment of Commonwealth inspectors. As far as can be ascertained there was a ministerial direction, during the term of office of the previous Government, that these charges were not to be heard by local magistrates but by the Australian Industrial Court. Whilst none of these matters involve lengthy hearings or are of legal significance beyond the status and capability of magistrates courts, the fact is that a judge or judges have to go all over Australia to deal with them. That is absurd. 
Let me give honourable senators one example of this absurdity. One case involved the charging of a husband and wife who operated a hotel with one part-time employee. I believe it was in Queensland. The charge was that of not keeping a roster record, even though only one part-time barman was employed by the husband and wife as owners. If a direction still exists that such matters should be heard in the Industrial Court, it should be revoked. Matters such as this could be dealt with in magistrates courts. Surely they are quite competent to deal with such matters rather than have them take up the time of the Industrial Court. There appears to be a growing tendency to use judges of the Industrial Court more and more in other activities the number of which, in terms of importance, frequency and duration of hearings, is expanding. The Trade Practices Tribunal is a good example. Its hearings are somewhat prolonged and are becoming more numerous. The practice of allocating extra- curicular activity to Industrial Court judges is, in itself, expanding. I refer to the inquiry being conducted into Aboriginal rights by  Mr Justice  Woodward; the inquiry into Norfolk Island by  Mr Justice  Nimmo; and the maritime inquiry into indemnity payments by  Mr Justice  Sweeney, who was, according to the Parliamentary Library, also the Chief Justice of Fiji. It is now 20 years since the Industrial Court was established, following the Boilermakers case, as mentioned by  Senator Button. 
Which today, the inexpertise or rush of senility, as expressed by  Senator Button,  is controverting. The degree of industrial activity in Australia has intensified in that time. The importance of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Industrial Court in operating the machinery provided for in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is now infinitely greater than it was in 1956. The Industrial Court, nevertheless, operates on a piecemeal basis subject to other requirements. It is time now, with the expected departure of  Mr Justice  Woodward, to take stock of the position to ensure that suitable Industrial Court judges are engaged full time in the work of the Industrial Court so that it carries on as a judicial body should carry on. The extracurricular activities which the Industrial Court judges have hitherto carried on over the years should now be carried on under separate arrangements unconnected with the Industrial Court and its judges. 
The legal integrity or ability of judicial or quasi judicial appointees of the previous Government are open to question. I will not give examples here but all practititioners before the Industrial Court on both sides and on all sides of the political spectrum understand what I am saying. It is clear that we should return to a situation in which there are full time practitioners and full time judges of the Australian Industrial Court, not a situation in which we see the majority of its members hived off into other areas for political convenience. That is what we have seen over the last few years. 
I return to what I said in opening and I say this with the greatest degree of commitment that I can gather at this time of night. I say it because I have defended for a long period the system of conciliation and arbitration that we have in this country. Of course there are problems with the system but those problems result only from the refusal of a minority of the participants in the system to agree to its working properly. There are 3 participants in the system- the unions, the employers and the Government. I charge that the Government is not playing its part in attempting to preserve the integrity of the Australian conciliation and arbitration system. What it has done with the Industrial Court is to denigrate it in the eyes of trade unionists. 
I say in conclusion that is basic to the implementation of any industrial policy- good or bad- that the entity known as the Australian Industrial Court should exist and that it should command the respect of the other participants in the system. I believe it does not command that respect at this point of time. I charge the Government that it should go beyond the advisers it has at present, that it should go beyond the suggestion that we will fix Woodward's appointment to ASIO by appointing another judge, and that it should inquire fully into the operations of the Australian Industrial Court. For the time being there is sufficient provision for appointments to the Australian Industrial Court to enable it to carry on its functions without this Senate 's agreeing to another appointment. 
The Government is saying: 'Cut down costs'. It is saying to each and every department: 'You have a ceiling for employees and beyond that ceiling you cannot go'. I say to the Government: Have a look at the Australian Industrial Court, go beyond the advice from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and see whether you cannot exercise that policy in this area and also bring back to the Australian Industrial Court an integrity and an honour which people were prepared to give it in days gone by and which they are not prepared to give it now '. I say to the Government that the onus of proof is on it to prove to the Senate that there is a need for an increase in membership of the Industrial Court. The Government has not given us that proof. What did the Government say in the second reading speech? In regard to this Bill in the second reading speech there is one paragraph. Contempt! It reads: 
The second Bill, the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, provides for an increase of one in the number of judges in the Australian Industrial Court so that the Court will consist of a Chief Judge and ten other judges. 
Fancy that! We could read that in the Bill. We did not need a second reading speech to know that. It continues: 
This will allow the court to operate if necessary at its present strength during the period of  Mr Justice  Woodward 's appointment with ASIO. 
Strength' is the word. That ought to be the word which the Government should take up- to strengthen the Australian Industrial Court to ensure that the appointees to the Australian Industrial Court are there to do the job. Why? So as to ensure, as  Senator Button  said, that a situation develops in which the Australian Industrial Court can operate with the same degree of regularity, continuity and stability as do the High Court and the Supreme Courts of each of the States. I oppose the Bill. 
I am proposing to move an amendment to clause 4 of the Bill. That amendment is now being circulated. I mentioned last night that I felt that any connection, however tenuous, between the security intelligence organization of a country and the industrial system of that country should be discouraged. The Bill that is currently before the Committee stipulates that the DirectorGeneral's salary is related to that of the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court. That is a tenuous connection indeed; nevertheless I feel that if it is at all possible the Government should reconsider that clause and accept the amendment that I propose to move. My amendment simply attempts to delete reference to the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court and to include reference to the  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal. After all, we all know the reason for the inclusion in the Bill of the provision relating to the Director-General 's salary. 
The Director-General to be appointed,  Mr Justice  Woodward, is currently the  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal. I realise that the salary applicable to the  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal is the same as that applicable to the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court. I do not go into questions of work value, nor do I go into imagining how one would conduct a work value inquiry into the salary of the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization compared with the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court. I accept that there is a level of remuneration which is being paid to the current Director-General, but I believe that there is no drafting problem and in witness thereof I have distributed the amendment which I propose to move at the end of my comments.  Mr Chairman,  shall I read the amendment or is it taken as read? 
The  CHAIRMAN  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  It is not necessary; it has been circulated. 
Thank you. I now turn briefly to the other Bill, the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. I am in a very awkward position because the Senate has agreed to take these 2 Bills in tandem so in fact I cannot really vote against the propositions and attempt to defeat the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill. I wish to amend that as I have set out. However, I feel that a case has not been made out by the Government to increase the establishment of the Australian Industrial Court by one member. Last night I detailed to the Senate a number of matters relating to the Australian Industrial Court. I incorporated in  Hansard  a table which was prepared by the Parliamentary Library setting out the number of sitting days of members of the Industrial Court. I said that there was a motive behind my attempting to raise these matters before the Senate. I said that an institution similar to the Australian Industrial Court should exist and should have the confidence of registered organisations. 
However, I want to make it perfectly clear that the criticisms that I levelled last night at the work load of the court and anything else I might say in the remainder of this debate about the work load should not be construed as criticism of the court itself. The point which I made last night was not that the justices of the Industrial Court are underworked as individuals but that they are underworked as justices of the Australian Industrial Court. The problem is with the Government which has been in the habit of loading upon the shoulders of these judges extracurricular activities, work and inquiries, particularly over the last 2 years. I have reason to believe that in the last 2 years the work load of those judges available for industrial work was deliberately increased by previous Attorneys-General to bring about an administrative breakdown in the Industrial Court so that that breakdown could be used as an argument and could be pointed to in this place in support of an imagined need to create the Superior Court. If that claim is correct the judges were the victims of a political manoeuvre which reflects little credit on the persons who conceived it. I cannot conceive of very many other reasons why the judges of the Australian Industrial Court should be hived off into other areas, and I am putting that claim forward as one of the reasons. 
As I have spoken of the court in a collective sense in some of my earlier remarks I desire to say that to the extent to which the Australian Industrial Court still enjoys the confidence of the trade union movement is in no small measure due to the integrity and application of such jurists as the Chief Judge,  Mr Justice  Spicer.  Mr Justice  Dunphy,  Mr Justice  Smithers.  Mr Justice  Franki,  Mr Justice  Nimmo and  Mr Justice  Woodward, who of course is what this Bill is all about. The amendment which I propose to move relates to clause 4, which reads in part: 
After section 6 of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: 6b. ( 1 ) If the Director-General is not a Judge, he shall be paid such remuneration as is determined by the Remuneration Tribunal and such allowances as are prescribed. 
) Sub-section ( 1 ) has effect subject  to the Remuneration Tribunals Act  1973-1975. 
If the Director-General is a Judge, other than Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court, and the rate per annum of his salary as a Judge is less than the rate per annum of the salary applicable to the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court, he shall be paid additional salary at a rate equal to the difference between the rates of those salaries, and, if the rate per annum of his annual allowance as a Judge is less than the rate per annum of the annual allowance applicable to the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court, he shall be paid additional annual allowance at a rate equal to the difference between the rates of those annual allowances. 
Where a Judge, not being the Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court, retires as a Judge or dies and, immediately before his retirement or death, he held office as Director-General, the  Judges' Pensions Act  1968-1974 applies to or in relation to him as if he had been Chief Judge of the Australian Industrial Court immediately before his retirement or death. '. 
I move: 
Leave out sub-sections (3) and (4) of proposed section 6b, insert the following sub-sections: 
If the Director-General is a Judge and the rate per annum of his salary as a Judge is less than the rate per annum of the salary that would be payable to him if he were President of the Trade Practices Tribunal, he shall be paid additional salary at a rate equal to the difference between the rates of those salaries, and, if the rate per annum of his annual allowance as a Judge is less than the rate per annum of the annual allowance that would bc payable to him if he were President of the Trade Practices Tribunal, he shall be paid additional annual allowance at a rate equal to the difference between the rates of those annual allowances. 
Where a Judge retires as a Judge or dies and, immediately before his retirement or death, he held office as Director-General, the  Judges' Pensions Act  1968-1974 applies to and in relation to him as if the appropriate current judicial salary applicable to him for the purposes of that Act were salary (including additional salary payable by virtue of sub-section (3)) at the rate that would be payable to him as Director-General if he had not retired or died.'. 
I believe in respect of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill that the Government has not made out a case for an increase in the establishment of that body. Finally, I remind Government senators of the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about commissions, boards of inquiry, and so on. I believe that if effect is to be given to the Prime Minister's statement about commissions and the like, fewer commissions will be appointed and the members of the Industrial Court will be available to do the work for which they were originally appointed, that is. to be full time members of the Industrial Court. 
I will not take up too much of the time of the Senate.  I  want the new Goverment to clarify whether it will take a different attitude from the previous Administration. Frankly, I do not understand why another judge has to be appointed to the Industrial Court. I believe that the Government has not made out a case for such action to be taken. Obviously, when  Mr Justice  Woodward joins the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation the Government will raid the Industrial Court to find a replacement  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal. 
The point I am making is that  Mr Justice  Woodward at present is not doing work for the Australian Industrial Court. He is  President  of the Trade Practices Tribunal. Therefore, the argument that he ought to be replaced on the Australian Industrial Court does not hold any water. What the Government is concerned about, of course, is a replacement for  Mr Justice  Woodward as  President  of the Trade Practices 
Tribunal. I may be wrong but I do not see why the Government needs to obtain a new President of the Trade Practices Tribunal from the Industrial Court. Section 3 1 ( 1 ) of the Trade Practices Act states: 
A person shall not be appointed as a presidential member of the Tribunal unless he is- 
a Judge of a Federal Court, not being the High Court or a court of an external Territory: or 
a person who has the status of a Judge of the Court. 
That section quite clearly does not say that a presidential member must come from the Industrial Court. Surely there are other areas which the Government could raid rather than the Australian Industrial Court. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: The Government has previously indicated that the report of the Nimmo inquiry into transport to and from Tasmania and related matters, would be available about this week. I ask: Has the report been given to the Government? If not, when will the report be given to the Government? In either event, when will this report, which is of such vital interest to all Tasmanians, be available for public examination, having regard to the fact that next week the Parliament is not sitting? 
I beg leave to address the Committee for only one minute. The matter which I wish to raise was raised before in this debate, I think, by  Senator Devitt.  It concerns the reliance upon air transport, particularly of passengers travelling to and from Tasmania. At present more than 90 per cent of persons travelling to and from Tasmania travel, in fact, by air. Rather than deal with the problems associated with travelling to and from Tasmania while we are discussing this Bill, I simply foreshadow that at a future time after the report of the Nimmo inquiry into transport to and from Tasmania has been presented, I will again be raising this matter in this chamber. 
I believe that the overall application of air navigation charges is discriminatory to the State of Tasmania and to other areas of decentralised population. On behalf of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council, I gave evidence about this very subject before the Nimmo inquiry in Tasmania, not quite 2 years ago. I tabled documents which showed that the air mile rate between Melbourne and Tasmanian ports was far greater than the air mile rate between the main trunk routes travelled by the airlines. Rather than preempt what might be contained in the Nimmo inquiry report, I will leave any further contribution that I might have to make on this matter until such time as that report is brought down. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and relates to the subject matter of questions asked in this place by  Senator Devitt  and in the other place by  Mr Keith  Johnson. I preface my question by saying that the answers were unsatisfactory, as were the questions, both of which missed the point. Is the Minister aware of a letter dated 4 April 1975 written by a former Minister for Labor and Immigration to  Mr B.  J. O'Connor, the Director of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, in which the Minister said: 
I would like the staff to be informed - 
That is the staff of the Stevedoring Industry Authority-  that whatever arrangements for the industry the Government ultimately determines, employees of the Authority will be continued in employment on terms and conditions no less favourable than those provided in their employment with the Authority. 
Is the Minister aware that this clear undertaking was passed on to the staff by the Director of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority? Is he also aware that on the basis of that guarantee the staff have continued loyally in the employment of the Authority? Is he further aware that a similar guarantee was also given by the next Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Senator James  McClelland? What is the current Minister going to do about upholding those guarantees given to the ASIA staff by the Government concerned? 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority tabled last sitting day and the report of the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission tabled on 2 March. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen a newspaper report of the address by one  Mr John  Halfpenny, a member of the National Industrial Committee of the Communist Party of Australia, to an accounting convention in Melbourne yesterday, in which  Mr Halfpenny  reportedly said: 'The Australian economy had the support of a massive protection racket that would have turned Al Capone green with envy'? Did the Minister note that one of the examples used by  Mr Halfpenny  to support his claim was the assistance to the Tasmanian apple industry and that he claimed that Tasmanian apple growers had a rate of subsidy around $15,000 a grower? Is the Minister aware that the subsidy paid to the Tasmanian apple growers is not meant solely for the grower but is shared also by the packing and manufacturing industries and others and that the apple industry in Tasmania provides employment to many people in that State through associated industries such as shipping, packing and transport? What steps will the Minister take to expose this type of anti-working class propaganda which strikes at the base of an industry which is struggling to provide jobs in an economically depressed area? 
-I seek leave to make a statement on the same subject. 
I refer to the business paper which was distributed. It states: 
A list of Reports to be presented by Ministers is circulated. 
The list of reports was circulated and unless I have a different list from other honourable senators it shows reports by the Minister for Administrative Services, the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Education, the Minister for Science and the Minister for the Capital Territory. There is no mention at all of the very important statement that has been made by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  on behalf of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I express concern about that because of the nature of this statement. Furthermore, I would be very concerned if the Senate were to accept this statement as being properly tabled without there being adequate discussions with the trade union movement and others concerned with this vital issue. The Senate will recall that the Australian Council of Trade Unions at its February meeting adverted to the fact that decisions were being taken by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations in respect of this very matter without consultation with the trade union movement. The ACTU asked the Government to bear this in mind and, particularly on this subject, to consult with the trade union movement. I am quite sure that some of the matters which were causing the Government concern could have been ironed out with mutual consultation. I am apprehensive that the tabling of this document, without any consultation whatsoever, will be counter-productive and will not achieve what is desired by the Government. I thank the Senate for giving me leave to make this statement. 
I direct a question to  Senator Guilfoyle,  the Minister for Social Security, who yesterday presented a statement relating to unemployment benefits and work tests on behalf of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is the Minister aware of the provisions of International Labour Organisation Conventions, including Conventions No. 2, No. 83, No. 88 and No. 122 which have been ratified by the Commonwealth Government? Is the Minister aware that these conventions concern employment policies, unemployment, including unemployment benefits, and the organisation of employment services and that they specifically require member countries to consult trade union and employer organisations on these matters? Is the Minister aware that a previous coalition government was so committed to the consultative provisions of the then unratified conventions concerning unemployment and employment services that the then head of the Department of Labour and National Service,  Sir Henry  Bland, used those provisions to persuade a doubtful 
Australian Council of Trade Unions to participate in formal consultative machinery on employment, unemployment and industrial policies? Does the Minister realise that the failure of the Government to consult plays into the hands of extremists bent on industrial confrontation for political purposes? Is the Minister aware that on Tuesday, 17 February, the ACTU Executive specifically referred to the Government's proposed interference with unemployment paymerits and systems without consultation or advice to the ACTU and requested that such consultations take place? 
-Is the Minister aware that there has been no consultation with the trade union movement on the work test and unemployment policy which were the subject of the ministerial statement presented by her yesterday? 
This is an important subject. Was this apparent disregard for international conventions and recommendations undertaken on the advice of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations which, under a previous distinguished Permanent Head, was familiar with the responsibilities of the ratifying parties and the obligations of the Government to consult? Is the Minister aware that methods are available, under international covenant, to bring to heel the failure of the Government to observe those international instruments, with consequent damaging exposure to Australia's international standing? Finally, in view of all those factors, are the Minister and her colleague prepared to give an undertaking now- at this late stage- that they will immediately enter into consultations with the trade union movement on the matter of the ministerial statement to overcome the recognised problems associated with the work test, the payment of unemployment benefit and relevant matters? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Prime Minister been drawn to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  by Anthony Hill entitled: 'GMH breaks with wage policy: Fraser angry'? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the statement in that article that the private agreement reached with the unions concerned is outside the wage indexation guidelines and that the Government is also concerned to try to prevent a flow-on of the GMH agreement to private awards negotiated by both the Ford Motor Company of Australia and Chrysler Australia Ltd. Despite what the Prime Minister said today in another place, do inquiries by him reveal the article is totally false? Do further inquiries reveal that the agreement was based on the catch-up provisions which were within the wage indexation guidelines, that the agreement was made to rectify a situation in which all employees in the whole motor vehicle industry, except those at GMH were receiving the increased rates, and, that the increases will have no effect within the industry or on the wage policy generally? Will the Minister investigate the question whether false information was supplied by an officer of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations to  Mr Anthony  Hill in an effort to set up this Government in an unnecessary confrontation? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware of the effect of the 
Government's economic measures on the efficiency of the Department's arbitration inspectorate in Tasmania, which is currently staffed by only 2 inspectors? Does the Minister realise that as a result of these measures all routine inspections have ceased and that visits to the north, north-west and west coast of Tasmania to investigate complaints have been cut by more than 80 per cent? Is the Minister aware of the valuable time wasted by inspectors being required to use public transport- for which, incidentally, dole tickets were issued until recentlyinvolving in every week many hours of walking to and from factories and bus stops? Is the Minister aware that as a consequence one inspector took to his private bicycle to do his rounds on a 20-mile radius from the General Post Office in Hobart? Whilst this mode of travel might be good for the officer's health and strikes a blow for the anti-pollution cause, why was an allowance for the replacement of worn out bicycle tyres refused to this officer, who has now left the inspectorate? Will the Minister initiate measures to ensure that the arbitration inspectorate in Tasmania is able to resume routine inspections and to cope with complaints and investigations, in the interests of industrial relations in that State? 
-I seek leave to propose a motion. 
I raise these issues before the Senate hoping that all honourable senators will regard them as very serious indeed. There has been a pattern of perjury that has resulted in a man losing his job. 
I beg your pardon. I am prepared - 
I am prepared at the end of this speech to table my statutory declaration and to table all of the statutory declarations that have been referred to tonight. The major reason that I have raised this matter tonight is that there is a man out of work.  (Opposition senators interjecting) 
My reason for raising this matter tonight is to endeavour to see that the Senate which was requested by  Mr Bray  to provide redress almost 9 months ago takes action to see that redress is provided. 
I hoped that members of the Australian Labor Party would have supported that in the interests of trade union principles. 
I want to know whether the members of the Labor Party agree that the employment by  Mr Gietzelt  - 
I want to know why honourable senators on the ALP side are prepared to condone the use of private investigation agents to develop perjured evidence against one of their own Party members. 1 say this: I have put up tonight. It is up to the Government now, which through one of its back benchers said 'Put up or shut up', to test this matter in the courts. I will stand by what comes out of the court so far as it affects me.  Mr Bray  is without a job because of the false evidence that was brought against him by the very man who perjured himself against me. I wish to seek from the Senate redress for that citizen. I believe that this House is not only a protector of the rights of the States but also is the protector of the rights of the individual citizen and has prided itself on being such. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate take note of the Paper entitled  Position Statement on Future Arrangements for the Stevedoring Industry,  by R. M. Northrop, Q.C., dated February 1976. 
The Senate is engaged in debate on the first reading of the Wheat Export Charge Amendment Bill 1976. Apparently it is traditional in this House that the first reading of a money Bill enables honourable senators to raise certain issues which may not be relevant to such Bill. I promise that my intention at this point of time is only to endeavour to sort the wheat from the chaff. I want to raise 3 quite important issues tonight. The first relates to the rights, functions and duties of the House to protect the rights of ordinary citizens who seek redress from it. I refer to the position of  Mr Norman  Bray who sought redress from this House last year and sent a statutory declaration to all honourable senators setting out how he was dismissed from office in a particular union on the basis of false evidence. That statutory declaration was tabled in this House by  Senator Greenwood  on 16 July 1975. 
-That is correct, during the adjournment debate. He stated in the affidavit that he is a member of the Australian Labor Party. He stated clearly that he was elected by a court controlled ballot of the rank and file as full-time secretary of the Australian Leather and Allied Industries Branch of the Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union of Australia. On 6 February 1975 he was confronted by the Federal Executive of the Miscellaneous Workers Union with a document signed by one Francis Anthony Shanahan. The charges that were laid against Norman Bray and supported by a statement signed by Frank Shanahan but not sworn by him indicated that in particular  Mr Bray  had participated with Shanahan and others in a meeting with one Brian Harradine, the secretary of the Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council, concerning the issue of the election in which  Mr Ray  Gietzelt was involved at that time. In his affidavit which was presented to this House  Mr Bray  said: 
I say and the fact is that I have never in my life met Brian Harradine so far as I am aware and I have certainly never attended any meeting at which  Mr Harradine  was present, whether at the address given by Shanahan or anywhere else, and the allegations made by Shanahan to the contrary are false. 
After hearing read Shanahan 's statement the Federal Executive of the Miscellaneous Workers Union of Australia voted to dismiss me from my offices and to suspend me from membership in the Union until 30 June 1975. The practical effect of the latter suspension was to deny me any possibility of obtaining employment in the industry in which I had worked before becoming a union officer. 
That citizen sought redress from the Senate and that citizen has no permanent job now. He is blacklisted throughout the whole of this industry which is exclusively covered by the Miscellaneous Workers Union, whose federal secretary is one  Mr Ray  Gietzelt. 
How was this set up and why? Why was this man railroaded by innuendo and false evidence? An inkling is contained in the other statutory declaration which was submitted on the same date by one Peter James Moxon. In it he said that the evidence that was brought forward by one Francis James Shanahan against  Mr Bray  was given at the instigation of  Mr Barry  Thomas Egan and on the basis of gain by  Mr Shanahan.  Moxon stated in his statutory declaration:   . . from about mid 1973 . . . Egan began to ask me to be careful to avoid any open connection with him as he was dealing with Gietzelt and did not wish to antagonise him. . . Early in 1975 Egan told me that he had put Frank Shanahan on his payroll as an organiser in the Australian Workers Union - 
That is the New South Wales registered organisation and has nothing to do with the federal association-  of which Egan was secretary. He told me: 'Shanahan and his wife get $300 a week between them. Shanahan got an AWU organiser's salary, a house in Wagga and a car, and his wife will be paid as the AWU office girl in Wagga. 
That is still the situation. Egan went on: 
 I look after those who stick with me. Now I have got to clear it with Ray Gietzelt so he knows it is not aimed at him.' 
On a later occasion in January or early February 1975 Egan rang me and said: 'I cleared Frank Shanahan 's appointment with Ray Gietzelt but Gietzelt has set a condition. He says I must get Frank Shanahan to make a statement about all the people who assisted in the campaign. Do you have any ideas on what it should say? We will have to concoct something for Frank to say to keep Gietzelt happy. ' 
The declaration goes on. Because my time is limited I will not read it all but honourable senators will find it in the Senate  Hansard  for 16 July 1975 on pages 2793 to 2798. This man, Norman Bray, sought redress from the Senate and thus far the Senate has failed him.  Senator Greenwood  was one of those senators who attempted to raise and who in fact did raise this matter in the Senate. This is what  Mr Norman  Bray indicated quite clearly in his affidavit: 
I expressly disclaim any wish for any enquiry to be made by any person into the internal affairs of the Australian 
LaborParty,theFederatedMiscellaneousWorkersunion  of Australia or any other organisation grouping or event and ask only that the Senate or a senator or senators take such action as is necessary to ensure that the specific questions of fact referred to in this my affidavit are investigated and reported upon to the Senate for such action as the Senate may then see fit to take. 
Previous to that, he had stated: 
 I respectfully request of the members of the Senate of the Australian Parliament and especially of those senators who are members of the Australian Labor Party the following relief- 
He then set out a number of items on which he sought relief.  Senator James  McClelland was then the Minister for Labor and Immigration. He made these remarks to the Senate in replying briefly: 
I have no knowledge of the allegations contained in the affidavits which he has tabled. If he will let me have a copy of them I will have the matter investigated immediately. If the allegations to which the honourable senator has adverted are true I acknowledge that this is a very serious matter, requiring prompt attention from the Government. I undertake to have the allegations raised and the affidavits investigated promptly and, if any action is called for, to take such action. 
I do not know  Mr Bray.  I have never spoken to him and I have never met him, but from information supplied to me by members of the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales he is a decent, ordinary citizen who sought redress from this Parliament and has not obtained it. Let me come to the second issue that I would like to raise. It is linked somewhat to the first issue only because the person who signed a document adducing false evidence against  Mr Bray,  who lost his job, was one of those persons who swore evidence against me before the Federal Executive of the ALP. That also was false evidence as I propose to prove in the next few minutes. 
I wish now to turn to the evidence that was put forward against me at the Federal Executive meeting of the ALP. This evidence was described as perjured evidence by  Mr Whitlam,  the then Prime Minister, on 28 September 1975 to the State council of the New South Wales branch of the party. He said: 'Harradine is the victim of perjured evidence'. What was that perjured evidence? More importantly, where was it deposed and what action should be taken about it? Evidence was given by  Mr Shanahan  that I attended several meetings but that in particular I attended a meeting in the R. A. King room on Tuesday, 30 March 1971. He was supported by 2 private inquiry agents hired by  Mr Ray  Gietzelt of the Miscellaneous Workers Union to spy on me. As indicated in a document entitled  Socialist and Industrial Labour,  apparently these private inquiry agents had been following me for some time. They came up with only one alleged incident. It was that I allegedly held a meeting on 30 March 1971 to campaign against  Mr Ray  Gietzelt and his election to the Miscellaneous Workers Union in the R. A. King room from 2 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. along with 7 other people. It was suggested by  Mr Ray  Gietzelt and some others on the Federal Executive of the ALP that I was in cahoots with people trying to knock off  Mr Gietzelt  and that that meeting took place at that time. This is what transpired at that time.  Mr Shanahan,  according to the affidavits that were presented to the Parliament on 16 July 1975, told  Mr Moxon: 
In return you must both make a statement that Harradine attended a meeting in Sydney with you, offered to supply money and did supply money for the campaign against Gietzelt. Ray says there will be no worries about any comeback against you because your statements would be used only at an ALP Federal Executive inquiry and unsworn statements would suffice. 
I knew of that document because it was on the table at the Federal Executive meeting of the ALP. I was not going to have a situation in which unsworn evidence was to be laid against me. So I asked that those who would seek to place evidence before the meeting about me give sworn evidence. I said that I was prepared, because of my religious beliefs and because of my knowledge of the consequences at law, to swear that I was not at that meeting. I knew that I was at a meeting of a Youth Week sub-committee of the Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I had not thrown out my old diary. When I returned from Malaysia I fossicked around my drawer. Lo and behold, I found my 1971 diary and on the appropriate date there was printed 'ACTU sub-committee'. I ask any honourable senator to tell me where he was on 30 March 1 97 1 . He would not be able to tell me. 
The honourable senator was lucky. Most people would not be able to say where they were but at least I was sure where I was by looking at my diary. What happened? The people concerned swore that I was at that meeting. After consideration of that matter, the  President  of the ALP contacted the secretary and sought advice as to whether a meeting of the youth committee had taken place. The advice came back that there had been a meeting of the youth committee held in the same room, at the same time and between the same hours as it was alleged by these private inquiry agents, supported and hired by  Mr Gietzelt  and his cohorts to spy on me. This was the subcommittee meeting of the Executive of the ACTU and not the meeting that was alleged. Sure, there were 8 people present but not all those whom it was alleged were present by the private inquiry agents bought by  Mr Geitzelt.  That meeting was chaired by  Mr H.  J. Souter, the secretary of the ACTU. That raises a couple of issues. For example, is the alternative government of this country prepared to condone a situation where there is invasion of privacy and where members of that Party will hire private investigation agents to spy on their fellow members? Over the last eight or nine years there has been one member of that Party who has been denied equality of opportunity with all the others, and one of the first to deny him that equality was the former Attorney-General in the previous Government- and I am not referring to  Mr Enderby.  What is the situation at the moment? We have a man who did not lie and others who did lie. The minutes of the Federal Executive meeting held in Canberra show that these men were cross-examined by  Mr Whitlam,  and the cross-examination makes very interesting reading. 
The third issue I want to raise in the short time available to me is this: Surely the current Commonwealth Government and the New South Wales Government must be aware that breaches of the law have been committed by a person who has been instrumental in railroading an innocent union official and by persons who have been instrumental in railroading me. In this debate I am not interested in myself; I am interested in the fact that a man who refused to lie is still without a permanent job while those who did lie have reaped their rewards in cash and kind. Let me say where  Mr Shanahan  is at present.  Mr Shanahan  is still employed by  Mr Barry  Thomas Egan. He is employed at the rate of $12,000 a year and his wife is employed as a clerk in the same office at $6,000 a year.  Mr Barry  Thomas Egan is employed at approximately $290 a week, with expenses of $30 a week, petrol allowance of $20 a week, and a rank and file car- a Volvoprovided.  His  wife is employed in the same office as an organiser, under her maiden name, receiving $208 a week, an allowance of $30 a week and a petrol allowance of $20 a week - 
No. I will answer - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Drake Brockman)-  Order! I will allow only one  speaker  at a time. 
There is no snooping in this. I happen to be a Federal official of the Shop Distributive and Allied Employees Association and  Mr Egan  is the Federal Secretary of that organisation. I, as a Federal councillor of that organisation, am entitled to know and do know what our Federal Secretary receives in jobs other than the job he is doing for us. 
Now let me get down to the question of what this Government's responsibility is. I would like to table the documents to which I have referred; that is, my statutory declaration, the statutory declaration of  Mr Shanahan,  the statutory declaration of  Mr White,  one of the private inquiry agents and the statutory declaration of  Mr Syron,  the other private inquiry agent. I seek leave to table them. Clearly, from the evidence in the minutes of the meeting of the Australian Council of Trade Unions sub-committee these people have perjured themselves. Where have they perjured themselves? They have perjured themselves in the Australian Capital Territory. We have seen  Senator Rae  say in his newspaper article that I had better put up or shut up. There are two types of people in this world in relation to me: Those who say that I have put up too much and those who say that I have put up with too much. On this occasion I am putting up. What is the Government going to do about this clear evidence of where these people have perjured themselves blue in this Territory? Furthermore, what of the Shanahan perjury, which is in the jurisdiction of the New South Wales Governmentagain a Liberal Government? Furthermore, it is clear from the investigation of these private investigation agents by the Federal Executive- investigation by  Mr Whitlam-  that one of three things happened. Either the private inquiry agents willingly perjured themselves and did it in full knowledge-  Mr Whitlam  in examining them got from them that they refreshed their memory from a Websters diary- 
No. This is the New South Wales firm of investigation agents. Alternatively, Websters Investigation Agency was responsible for the false evidence being supplied to these private inquiry agents. The private inquiry agents did say that they were given photographs of the people who were going into the room by the Miscellaneous Workers Union. The third alternative is that those photographs were of the wrong people; that they were of the people who actually went into that room, people whom the Miscellaneous Workers Union knew would go into that room because  Mr Gietzelt  would have received the notice of the meeting that was to be held in that room. Someone is going to have to say what happened. This investigation agency- Websters Investigation Agency- is registered under a New South Wales Act called the Commercial Agents and Private Inquiry Agents Act. With a clear indication that perjured evidence was given by one former employee of that agency, what is the New South Wales Government going to do about it? Let me say this: What a travestyof trade union principles it is to have secreted private inquiry agents in the hallowed halls of the Sydney Trades Hall, the birthplace of the trade union movement in Australia. Where did they look to find people going into the room?  Mr Deputy President,  I am not sure how long I have left. 

 Mr DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman) You will be told when your time has expired. 
I will readjust a little from the transcript of the Federal Executive meeting. Let us see whether it matches up with trade union or Labor Party principles. 
What would I know about trade union principles? Have you ever heard anybody criticise me one iota for deviating in any way from the principles of the trade union movement in my 18 years as a full time union official? No one has! Not one!  (Opposition senators interjecting)- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! 
All there was was political invective to muddy the industrial pool so as to attempt to wean away my support in the key trade union movement of Tasmania. That is what it was.  (Opposition senators interjecting)- 
No one! There has been not one person who has put forward any criticism of my trade union record. I will say this,  Mr Deputy  President: Let us - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order ! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
That an extension of time of 5 minutes be granted to  Senator Harradine. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Martin  has moved: 'That an extension of time of 5 minutes be granted to  Senator Harradine'. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I call  Senator Douglas  McClelland. 

 -Mr President, pursuant to standing order 408 I seek the indulgence of the Senate to make a personal explanation concerning a newspaper report which misrepresented my statements in the Senate. 
I direct a question to  Senator Carrick,  the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. In view of the Minister's answer to  Senator Lajovic  that the New South Wales Government will be able to reduce State taxes and charges in anticipation of the introduction of stage 1 of the Commonwealth Government's new federalism plan, can he give an assurance that the implementation of the Commonwealth Government's Federalism policy will result in all States, including the smaller States, being able to reduce taxes and charges whilst maintaining services at Grants Commission levels? 
I rise to oppose clauses 7 and 1 1 of the Social Services Amendment Bill. A social services policy should be based on providing help for those most in need. This entails an assessment of need with consequent administrative and other problems. This benefit is one of the remaining benefits that are paid on the basis of need. A test is applied. Of course, this entails administrative problems. Why has the Government suggested that this particular benefit should be abolished? 1 believe that it has done so on the advice of its Department which has an administrative headache. But what does the Government do? Its answer is to chop off the head and not to examine the real problem which would be an administrative problem associated not only with this benefit but also with any other benefit if those benefits were truly and properly based upon social service policies, namely, of providing help for those most in need. That is one of the principal reasons why I oppose these clauses. Here we have that principle and that principle is going out the door. 
It is not the money that is of importance. The amount of the benefit, $40, would not even buy a casket. If it were a question of the money or the box, you would take the box every time. If there were some suggestion that funeral directors were raking on" some money as a result of the Government benefit, there are ways and means of attending to that problem. I would seriously recommend to the Government that an examination be undertaken of this matter and that even at this late stage it adjourn consideration of this Bill so as to reconsider it and leave out clauses 7 and 1 1 which abolish the benefit. 
I am also very encouraged to hear that on this side of the chamber as well as on the other side there is a recognition that this is a House of review and that it has real powers. These real powers will be used because at a future date not long from now we, as representatives of the States, will have to consider what moneys will go to the States. I hope that the spirit that influences us here now will influence us then. If the situation arises in which expenditure cuts are proposed, the Senate will vote accordingly to throw out the proposition. I further wish simply to say that I will be opposing clause 7 now. If clause  1  is carried, I intend to vote against it on the motion that the Bill stand as printed. 
I rise to foreshadow a further amendment to the Opposition amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Social Services Amendment Bill. I believe that in so doing the record must be put straight. Where justice is delayed then justice is denied. One of the purposes of the Bill is to adjust and increase rates of pensions payable under the Act to take into account increases in the consumer price index for the September and December quarters of last year- a total increase of  6.4  per cent. The Bill seeks to make the increase in pension operative from  13  May  1976  whereas, of course, the operative date ought logically to be  1  January  1976;  or alternatively the date on which the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission decision became effective in respect of increases in the consumer price index, namely  15  February  1976. 
Attempts have been made over a number of years to have pension adjustments made retrospective to an appropriate date consistent with the application to wages of an increase in the consumer price index for a particular period. Such an attempt occurred in  1964  when  Senator Tangney  moved an amendment that the adjustments take place from  1  July  1 964.  In  1 966  Senator Tangney  again moved a similar amendment for adjustments to take place from  1  July  1966  when the Bill provided for the adjustments to take place from  13  October  1966.  Both of those amendments were defeated. In  1967  Senator Toohey  moved an amendment which was carried. In  1968  Senator Fitzgerald  moved an amendment which was designed to make the increases retrospective to  1  July  1968.  That was defeated. In  1969  Senator Poke  moved an amendment which noted the question of retrospectivity. That amendment was carried. Of course, the Senate could not amend a money Bill. Since that date no amendments referring to retrospectivity of pension increases have been moved. 
I wonder why on this occasion there should not be moved an amendment which seeks to highlight the fact that these pension increases are not to operate from the appropriate date which I believe ought to be  1  January  1976.  For that reason at the end of my speech I will move an amendment to the Opposition's amendment in the following terms:  and deplores the failure of the Government to back date all increased payments to 1 January 1976. 
There is no need for me to canvass this matter at length. I believe the only thing that needs to be said is that justice delayed is justice denied. 
Turning to the question of funeral benefits, it is recognised that there is a substantial administrative problem in respect of this matter. Nevertheless, that administrative problem has not been placed fully before the Senate as far as I am aware, and until such time as it is I believe that the Senate should reject this attempt to delete Part IVA of the Social Services Act. This funeral benefit is very small. Whilst some administrative problems may be involved, the funeral benefit ought to be maintained in some fashion. I will support whatever action is suggested in this place to ensure that the funeral benefit is maintained. I suggest to the Government that the administrative problems involved ought to be detailed perhaps to the  Sir Henry  Bland Committee that is inquiring into administrative matters at present. Certainly until such time as the position is rectified, the funeral benefit ought to be maintained. I move: 
At the end of the amendment of  Senator Grimes'  add the following words: and deplores the failure of the Government to back date all increased payments to 1 January 1976. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)-  Is  Senator Harradine  's amendment seconded? There being no seconder, the amendment lapses. 
Is it a fact that the Minister for Social Security early this afternoon instructed her Department to prepare the necessary machinery for an increase of 6.4 per cent in pensions and benefits in anticipation of the legislation providing for such increases being passed by both Houses and receiving the royal assent by Friday of this week? Does this indicate a change of attitude from that expressed by her last night and a truer reflection of the real concern which I am sure she has for the pensioners of this country? 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services whether he is aware of the difficulties being experienced by public libraries in obtaining government documents and statistics. Is he aware of the difficulties that this creates, particularly in provincial areas, for trade unionists, lawyers and others who rely on government documents, to a certain extent, and on statistics and who have no access to Australian Government publication services? Will the Minister undertake to make an investigation as to why these documents and statistics are not freely available to public libraries? 

 - Mr Deputy President, pursuant to standing order 364 1 move: 
That the documents that were quoted from by  Senator Geitzelt  be tabled. 
A Document quoted from by a  Senator may  be ordered by the Senate to be laid upon the Table; such Order may be made without Notice immediately upon the conclusion of the speech of the  Senator who  has quoted therefrom. 
There is cerainly nothing there which suggests that the will of the honourable senator concerned has anything to do with the question. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT-Senator Harradine is in order in moving his motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (4.15)-  Mr Deputy President,  may I in the very first sentence that I utter reply to an observation made by  Senator Gietzelt?  By way of an interjection I said that there was an Indonesian desk in the Department of Foreign Affairs. At the time I made the interjection I was using the old nomenclature. In fact, I checked it out afterwards and found that that area in the Department of Foreign Affairs is known as the South East Asia area or sector. Therefore, I wish to make it perfectly clear that I had, by interjection, misin- formed the Senate. That is the area to which any further reference by any honourable senator should be made. 
I must make my position perfectly clear at this juncture. It would be impossible to traverse all the various elements that have been raised by  Senator Gietzelt.  I must deal, in rebuttal, in my own way with the matters that have been raised in this matter of urgency. The main thrust of  Senator Gietzelt  's argument is that Australia must intervene in East Timor. How is it to intervene? The horse is brought out by  Mr Halfpenny,  the secretary of the Victorian branch of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union- he has the support of other unions- who stated that they have collected money, that they have chartered a ship and that they intend to float the ship into East Timor. At the same time they have asked the Australian Government to give the ship covering protection. As far as I can see, that will not in any way help the alarming situation that exists in East Timor at present because the reality of the matter is that if these stores are required- I assume that they are required- the proper international body to use to get them to East Timor is the International Red Cross. I have not found out from any observation by  Mr Halfpenny  or anybody else whether in fact overtures have been made to the International Red Cross to see whether it can obtain the support and the influence necessary to get this ship into East Timor. 
How did the present situation in East Timor arise? The situation in that country is now attracting the attention of a great number of members of the Australian Labor Party both in another place and in this place. Here I think that I have to embark upon a resume of how the present situation in East Timor arose. The position before this situation arose was quite clear.  (Quorum formed)  I was about to mention to honourable senators the position which led clearly and remorselessly to the situation in East Timor. There was a revolution in Portugal. The main thrust of that revolution was that the 
Communist Party there took over the direction of the armed forces in that country. 
I would be doing less than justice to the previous Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  if I did not direct the attention of the Senate to the anticipatory situation which was revealed when he went to Jakarta and had a discussion with  President  Suharto. Subsequently they had another conference in Townsville. The subject matter of those conferences in Jakarta and Townsville was the rising situation or the stormy clouds that were beginning to rise in East Timor. However, we have never had any explanation of why those conferences took place or of what took place at them. That led me quite remorselessly one day to ask in the Senate whether the papers relating to those 2 conferences, the memoranda of conversation, would be tabled. Last week the Leader of the Opposition in another place (  Mr E.  G. Whitlam) addressed a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on the subject of East Timor. I think it is proper for the fuller information of honourable senators, that I read from page 1736  of Hansard  the reply given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to  Mr Whitlam. Mr Peacock  said: 
I understand that you did write a letter on 7 November in connection with the then Government's inquiries relating to newsmen. You had at that stage met a fair degree of obstruction in the matter and you decided to take some action. It is interesting to note that, apart from your tacit approval in September 1974 regarding any impending invasion of Timor, I think this is the first action you actually took. The first occasion on which you raised aspects relating to Timor and Indonesia was in September 1974- and whether it was done tacitly or avowedly I do not know because I do not break conventions and go through the records of your Government in office. But my recollection is that it was well known amongst your Government, amongst your colleagues and amongst some who have worked for you and who are now writing for journals, that what I am saying is correct. So in the time frame of September 1974, when as I have said, either tacitly or avowedly you gave support to a degree of 
Indonesian expansionism, you then wrote on 7 November 1975 regarding the missing journalists. 
Unless the Minister for Foreign Affairs breaks the conventions that relate to correspondence and documents of previous governments, it is not possible to draw any conclusion other than the conclusion which I draw. The conclusion which I draw not only from the observations of the Minister for Foreign Affairs but also from an article written by  Mr Gregory  Clark, an ex-member of the Department of Foreign Affairs attached to  Mr Whitlam's  staff, is that the Prime Minister of that day gave tacit approval to the invasion of East Timor by the Indonesian Government. 
From that anticipatory situation, as I have described it, we then came to what I describe as the gathering of forces, the gathering storm. Remorselessly these events, which had been set in train by both the communist revolution and takeover of the armed forces in Portugal and the flow of arms into East Timor by the then revolutionary government in East Timor, led to a situation where there seemed to be no possibility of their being halted by the Australian Government at the time. Then, on 1 1 November the Governor-General imposed on the caretaker Government the responsibility of maintaining the policies of the Government which it had replaced- an undertaking that was fulfilled. I assume that, whatever arrangements had been made by the previous Government, it was not within the capacity of the caretaker Government to halt those arrangements in any way. That is an observation which I make in passing. 
What is clear is that in February this year, and after the election when the incoming Government could take charge of events, action began to flow from the present Government- the Fraser Government- and, in the case of the foreign affairs matters, under the aegis of  Mr Peacock.  Then came  Mr Peacock's  journey to Jakarta, where he had conferences with Adam Malik, the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Indonesia followed by his incursion into the United Nations. The General Assembly of the United Nations met to look at this problem and carried a resolution stating that the matter should go to the Security Council. It is interesting to read who voted for that resolution and who abstained, but the more interesting thing is that the nations in the area were opposed to the intervention of the United Nations and the subsequent intervention of the Security Council. 
However, the matter went to the Security Council which involved itself in those delicate matters that seem to activate in a semantic way the business of the General Assembly and the Security Council. The Security Council met on 22 December 1975. After the verbiage such as'having noted', 'having heard', 'recognising', 'being gravely concerned', 'deploring' and 'regretting' -all of which is the method by which the United Nations comes to an inconclusive answer- the Security Council made the vast decision that it would remain seized of the situation. 
But what is to be done if Indonesia refuses to withdraw all its troops? That is the problem. How is that withdrawal to be obtained? Surely it can only be obtained by rational discussion either in the United Nations or between this Government and the Government of Indonesia. Nothing that  Senator Gietzelt  has said indicates in any way at all how this situation is to be resolved if we cannot resolve it by, firstly, persuading the Government of Indonesia to withdraw its troops or, secondly, by persuading the United Nations to apply sanctions. It is very interesting when sanctions are applied. They were applied unilaterally by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in south west Africa when it airlifted Cuban troops from Cuba into south western Africa. Is an implicit invitation being extended to the Australian Government at the present moment that, for example, the USSR should proceed to airlift Cuban troops or some equivalent forces into East Timor? Is that what is being tacitly suggested? Are we being tacitly invited to put armed Australian forces into East Timor?  Mr Halfpenny  is half inviting us to do that by creating the conditions of  casus belli  between Indonesia and Australia in demanding that an Australian covering force be provided to protect the ship which, unilaterally, the trade unions in Victoria and other parts of Australia are loading with supplies. 
There is no answer to the situation except that Australia must use to the maximum its good offices. It is very surprising to discover that the Western European nations and the North and South American nations regard East Timor as an irritant from which they can avert their eyes and pay no attention. It is extraordinarily interesting to look at the declarations make in the General Assembly and in the Security Council by representatives of nations who live in that area such as Singapore, the Philippines and Malaysia who will not have any intervention in any way at all by the United Nations. In other words, there are 2 great forces in the world. There is the western society of Europe, with the exception of Sweden which is a professional neutralist, which does not want anything to do with East Timor. The nations in the area do not want to have anything to do with East Timor. 
I say again that all that is left is that Australia, through its Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, should maintain to the maximum the capacity to get a peaceful resolution of the situation that exists in East Timor. That will be done by dealing with either Indonesia, as I have mentioned, or by persuading the Security Council that it has to exert some further moral pressure on Indonesia. The attitude of the Fraser Government is clear and unequivocal, namely, that the problem must be solved by peaceful processes. The inflammatory statements which are being made by the Australian Labor Party at the present moment add in no way at all to the peaceful solution of the problem. As I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks, this problem has its genesis in the behaviour, the conduct and the policies of the member in another place who leads the Opposition and who gave, I say categorically, tacit approval to the Indonesians to take over East Timor. 
Because the Government desires to pass the States Grants (Schools) Bill tonight and to get the money flowing, time will not permit me to debate the whole question of education. I shall have to do that on another occasion. I simply want to refer tonight to just one thing that  Senator Martin  who preceded me in the debate has said, and that is that the Schools Commission should not be free from criticism where criticism is due. It should not be regarded as some sort of god which can do no wrong. In fact this Bill, which I understand is the result of the recommendations of the Schools Commission, is quite inadequate in its provisions so far as the State of Tasmania is concerned. The payments recommended in this Bill for the State of Tasmania do not even bear relationship to the population of Tasmania as a percentage of Australia's population. I for one will stand in my place here and criticise the Schools Commission for not providing to government schools in the building and equipment projects and recurrent expenditure section an amount of money which is consistent with the rights of the people of the States to their fair share of expenditure. 
In addition the recommendation of the Schools Commission in relation to nongovernment schools falls $250,000 short. The reason for that is the way in which the Schools Commission has worked out the grants for the non-government schools. If the moneys payable to non-government schools fall $250,000 short, that lowers the general standard of education in the State of Tasmania. Let me analyse what I have said and prove the point that the Bill before the Senate falls $250,000 short in that respect. In Tasmania 15.1 per cent of the State's school population goes to non-government schools. Many of those students going to nongovernment schools are from working class families in which the breadwinners make money sacrifices in order to send their kids to those particular schools. Because of the small State Government per capita payments- the smallest in Australia- and the inter-relationship of these payments with what is known as the SRRI- the Schools Recurrent Resources Index- the parents of children at non-government schools in Tasmania will receive under the provisions of this Bill approximately  a  quarter of  a  million dollars less than they should receive. 
Back in March of this year, the headmasters conference of the non-government schools in Australia distributed a Press statement to all the Tasmanian media and sent copies of that statement to all Tasmanian parliamentarians. The Press statement quoted the grants given by all State governments in Australia. It said:   the people of Tasmania are sadly disadvantaged by a depressed level of State Government's contribution. Parents are doubly disadvantaged by this because schools must increase fees to offset the loss from State Government contributions, and this in turn changes the school 's SRRI rating, thus causing the benefits from the Federal Government to drop. 
I have since discussed this matter with nongovernment school authorities in my State. Additionally, I have asked the education and welfare group in the Parliamentary Library to prepare for me some material which would explain the operation of the Schools Commission, the SRR index and its inter-relationship with the level of assistance provided by State governments. After studying this material, I am convinced that the headmasters are correct. I have known headmasters to be incorrect- particularly the one I had, as he always told me that I was not correct. But on this occasion I am convinced that the headmasters are correct and that parents of children at independent schools in Tasmania are doubly disadvantaged principally because of the low level of State Government assistance in Tasmania. I refer honourable senators to table 4.22 in the Schools Commission report for the triennium 1976-78. 1 ask for leave to have that table incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  ( The table read as follows)- 
Table 4.22 
Direct Recurrent Grants by State Governments to NonGovernment Schools, rates per Student, 1975- 

<graphic href="068232197605051_52_0.jpg"></graphic>

Special grants paid in proportion of per capita grants, amount to an additional $ 1 5.82 per primary student, $22 per junior secondary and $35 per senior secondary student. 
Source: Schools Commission Report for the Triennium 1976-78. 
I thank the Senate. That table demonstrates that the 1 975 per pupil grants by the Tasmanian Government for nongovernment schools- even including the special grants- were significantly lower than corresponding grants made by other State governments. Because the non-government schools in Tasmania receive the lowest State government per capita assistance of any State in Australia, they have had to increase their fees to offset this loss of assistance. Of course, the parents have been burdened with the result. These increases in fees will affect and have affected the SRRI rating and, consequently, the amount of assistance from the Commonwealth Government is lower because the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1976 is based on the recommendations made by the Schools Commission in its 1976 interim year report. Those recommendations are based in turn on the same general principles and priorities outlined in the Schools Commission report for the 1976-78 triennium. 
I am aware that the Association of Independent Schools of Tasmania has written to the Commonwealth Minister for Education about this problem. That Association has calculated that the low State per capita grant has reduced Federal aid to Tasmanian non-government schools by a figure 'not less than $225,000' for this period. That is the amount of approximately a quarter of a million dollars to which I referred previously. This Senate is presented with a Bill, the provisions of which are recommended by the Schools Commission and which when passed will disadvantage the independent school system in Tasmania by about a quarter of a million dollars and disadvantage government schools in Tasmania by a much greater amount. This is outlined on page 56 of the Bill in Schedule 1 . The reason why I say that is that, even granted Tasmania's population, the amount set out in Schedule 1 should be far greater than it is. As I read it, it is only 2.6 per cent of the total amount to be disbursed. If that is thought to be a fair deal for Tasmania and if that is the sort of recommendation which the Schools Commission dishes up, I believe that it is about time we had a look at the Schools Commission. For one thing, the cost of educating a child in the government school system in Tasmania is, because of the size of that State, greater than the cost in any other State. That is axiomatic. Yet, here we have a recommendation that will disadvantage government schools and non-government schools in my State. 
In respect of non-government schools, there are 2 ways in which the problem to which I referred previously can be overcome. The SRRI- the Schools Recurrent Resources Indexcould be altered, or the State Government could increase its per pupil grant. I am wondering what this Government will do about that anomalous position. I am wondering whether discussions will be held with the Tasmanian Government to ensure that it plays its part by raising its per pupil grant and whether the Schools Commission will act realistically in this current instance. I would have thought that because the Tasmanian Government failed to raise the per pupil grant to the appropriate level this Bill might have contained some extra funding to make up the difference; but it is not there. Not only is the amount of loss that is accumulated not there, but the quarter of a million dollars which is the short fall for this year is not there either. I am most concerned that this Bill does not provide to Tasmania its fair share of expenditure for education. I am concerned about this aspect not only for the needs of education within Tasmania but also for the workers of that State, many of whom would have been employed in building and equipment programs had an appropriate and proper disbursement of funds been provided for in this Bill. 
I am sorry to have taken the time of the Senate to raise this matter. I realise that the Government wants to get this Bill through and to get the money flowing. But I feel that this matter had to be raised in the interests of fairness to our State and in the interests of getting something done, and done quickly, before the non-government schools are forced out of existence and before the government schools feel the pinch as a result of the provisions of this Bill. 
During his speech  Senator Button  referred to a document which he said was a letter from a Father Martin, I think it was, which he presumed had been sent to other honourable senators. I, for one, have not received that document so, presumably, it has been set out selectively. Pursuant to standing order 364, 1 ask that  Senator Button  table the document. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I give contingent notice of motion as follows: Contingent on the Senate's consideration of any Bill relating to the stevedoring industry, and where appropriate, I shall move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill should not be further proceeded with until after consideration of general business notice of motion No. 4 standing in the name of  Senator Harradine  and relating to a paper on the stevedoring industry by R. M. Northrop, Q.C. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and concerns the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Is the Minister aware that early this month Soviet authorities refused to allow a visit to Russia by  Sir Charles  Curran, the Director-General of the British Broadcasting Commission, because of the BBC's refusal, despite pressure from the Soviet Embassy in London, to withdraw an interview with  Mr Solzhenitsyn?  Is the Minister aware also that, in the period since Solzhenitsyn 's release from the Soviet Union, the Australian Broadcasting Commission has screened only one interview with Solzhenitsyn, despite the fact that several other interviews were available and at least one was offered by the BBC to the ABC but was rejected as not suitable? Will the Minister ascertain the specific reasons the ABC considered the BBC program not suitable? Will he ascertain also who made that decision and whether any pressure was applied by the Soviet Union on the ABC similar to the pressure applied without success to the BBC? Will the Minister seek an assurance from the ABC that the apparent decision not to provide an opportunity to the Australian public to hear what Solzhenitsyn has to say is not based on political considerations and that, should the Soviet Embassy in Canberra attempt to apply pressure on the ABC, as it did on the BBC, any such pressure will be firmly rejected? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and refers to the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, presented by the Minister for Labor and Immigration in the previous Government,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, to provide a new section 133a and new section 140 (1) (d). Does the Minister realise that that amending Act provided that registered organisations had 12 months from the commencement of that Act or such longer period as the Registrar determined to bring their rules into conformity with those provisions? Is the Minister aware that very few organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act have brought their rules into conformity with those provisions? Is the Minister also aware of the grave difficulties experienced by registered organisations in this regard? Will he obtain for the Senate the percentage numbers of industrial organisations which have brought their rules into conformity with those provisions? 
I rise to point out to the Senate and to you,  Mr President,  my objection to what occurred last Wednesday during the debate on the 
East Timor situation. I register my strong objection to the Government's gagging that debate when all points of view had not been registered in this Senate. It is all very well for the Government and for the Opposition to be in each other's pocket but there is another point of view which should have been expressed at that time. I cannot go along with what  Senator Chaney  said at the end of the debate, that is, that there was a substantial area of agreement between the parties in the Senate on the question of East Timor. I agree that he could have felt that I was of the same opinion as the vast majority of Australians that the East Timorese have the right to self determination. I had made that clear to  Senator Chaney  before coming into this chamber. However, what was not adverted to during the discussion was the hypocrisy of the Left on this question which is shown when its attitude, and particularly that of  Senator Gietzelt  who initiated the debate, is compared with the attitude that it adopted in 1962 over the invasion by Indonesia of West New Guinea. I certainly hold the same view as I did on the previous occasion. 
At the second reading stage I was a little at sea in that I did not put my name down on the speakers' list. I want to ask a question in relation to clause 6 and the constitution of the interim council. I notice that there is nothing there to signify whether the interim council will be representative of any bodies, but undoubtedly the Government will consider organisations when deciding upon the members of the interim council. I am aware that some federal unions during the debate on where the college was to be established were not in favour of its being established in Launceston. Needless to say, the unions in Tasmania were very much in favour of it and supported those who were seeking to have it established in Launceston. However, by simply referring to just those categories mentioned by  Senator Carrick  I can see some of the unions that will be involved. 
There is the Australian Institute of Marine and Power Engineers, Professional Radio Employees Institute of Australasia, Merchant Service Guild of Australia, Seamen's Guild of Australia, and if we are talking of fishing vessels there is the Australian Workers' Union, Federated Shipwrights and Ship Constructors Association of Australia, and the Australian Shipping Officers Association. We can add to that list the marine cooks and marine stewards unions. They are some of the organisations that may be involved. I suggest that consideration be given to making contact with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and its State branch, the Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council, when the interim council and any of its committees are established. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Social Security follows the question asked by  Senator Cavanagh.  I refer to the aged persons housing survey which was released by  Senator Greenwood  and which showed that the State with the highest percentage of the aged in unsatisfactory housing was Tasmania where 1 9 per cent were involved, compared with an average of 10 per cent in other States. Is the Minister aware that a close examination of the results of the survey indicate not only that Tasmania has the most unsatisfactory housing situation for old persons on an overall basis, but also that it had the poorest rating for the design, condition and safety of steps, stairs, porch and verandah, interior dampness, structural condition of floors and fire risk. Granted that the survey is being conducted with a view to improving the Government's programs of assistance for aged persons' housing, will the Minister examine whether some form of urgent and immediate assistance might be given to those elderly Tasmanians whose living conditions are well below standard? 
Is the Minister representing the Attorney-General aware that on Tuesday of this week in the Supreme Court of New South Wales in Sydney a person was sentenced to 8 years gaol after pleading guilty to 5 charges of maliciously damaging 4 buildings and a car in Sydney with gelignite in March and April 1973? Is the Minister aware that one of those incidents involved a Commonwealth car park at Woolloomooloo? Does the Minister recall that the period in which those incidents occurredMarch and April 1973- was around the time of certain statements being made in this chamber about Croatian terrorists, and that some newspapers maliciously speculated that the bombing of the Commonwealth car park at Woolloomooloo was the work of Croatian terrorists? As the person who has been convicted of this offence is a suspended barrister from Sydney with an English-sounding name and obviously no political motivations or connections with Croatians, will the Minister investigate the possibility of obtaining a copy of the transcript of the Supreme Court Judge's summation and laying it on the table in the Parliamentary Library so that those journalists who libelled the Croatian community at the time can rectify their libel? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the Press statement from that Minister dated 20 May concerning the economies being undertaken in his portfolio and specifically to the reduced financial allocation under the Softwood Forestry Agreements Act. Is the Minister aware that although the reduced Commonwealth allocation to the States represents a 25 per cent reduction over that of last year, the effect of that reduction in my State will be at least a 50 per cent reduction in the area of new plantings? Is the Minister aware that this will come about by the stipulation of the Minister for Primary Industry that of the total $6m allocation only $2m will be for new plantings? Will the Minister give some consideration to the removal or modification of the $2m limit on new plantings so that the States, particularly my State of Tasmania where the forestry industry plays such a big role, will not be hamstrung by Canberra? 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Education and the Arts for inquiry and report- 
The maintenance of levels of employment for musicians by the Australian Broadcasting Commission with particular reference to: 
The continuance and growth of symphony and other orchestras; 
The extension of training facilities for musicians; and 
The need for the creation of employment opportunities for music graduates of conservatoria and colleges of advanced education. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to a report in the  Australian Financial Review  this morning which indicated that economy measures now being widely canvassed within the Australian Broadcasting Commission include rationalisation of the Commission's 6 orchestras, with the possible dismantling of the Hobart Symphony Orchestra and the possible elimination of the Adelaide Symphony Orchestra. My simple question is: What can the Government do to ensure that the ABC does not cut these worthwhile institutions? 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, relates to the AttorneyGeneral's statement of 20 May indicating that the commencement date for the Institute of Family Studies would be deferred until the end of the 1976-77 financial year. Does the Minister recall the concern that a number of people within the community expressed that the philosophy behind the Family Law Bill would strike at the concept of the family being the basic unit of society? Does the Minister recall that as a result of that concern the previous Attorney-General inserted into the Bill in July 1974 a provision for an Institute of Family Studies? Does he also recall that the Institute was established to promote, by encouragement and co-ordination of research and other appropriate means, activities directed towards the protection of the family as the natural and fundamental group in society? Does he further recall that the introduction of that particular part of the Family Law Bill gave rise to an expectation on the part of those persons concerned in the community that it would take effect immediately the Bill was proclaimed? Having had his memory refreshed, will the Minister now reconsider the proposed deferral, particularly as the saving will be only $140,000 but the cost of the deferral to our society could be very great indeed? 
It is precisely for the reasons that were outlined in  Senator Wright's  last few words that I had hoped that the Senate would debate the position statement on future arrangements for the stevedoring industry before it debated these Bills. The inferences underlying the last statement by  Senator Wright  have vast ramifications. I state, and state categorically, that the majority of the trade union movement does not wish to see a situation develop where the law of torts operates in place of a regulation of disputes by procedures governed by the trade union movement itself. I believe that if a proper examination of the situation facing the stevedoring industry were undertaken, then proper responsibility for the conduct and control of industrial disputes would emerge and the challenge would be laid at the door of the central trade union organisation to see whether it would accept that responsibility. Yet we hear the implied threat that into the field of industrial relations we are going to see more and more the law of tort, the Trade Practices Tribunal and other authorities coming where they should not be if proper responsibilities were accepted in the area of industrial relations. 
On 31 March 1976 I put down notice of a motion in this Senate that the Senate take note of the paper entitled  Position Statement on Future Arrangements for the Stevedoring Industry  by  Mr R.  M. Northrop, Q.C., who was then not a judge. I let that lie, hoping that it would receive the attention of the Senate. However, subsequent to the Minister's second reading speech in the other place, I put down a contingent notice of motion. The reason for putting down that contingent notice is to be found in some of the remarks made by the Minister in the other place. In his second reading speech on 6 May 1976 the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  said: 
Finally, I must say that it is recognised that in recent years direct government involvement in the industry has centred on its limited and diminished regulatory role. Now it considers that, in the light of the trend of recent years, that role is no longer necessary. That is not to say, however, that it will no longer give attention to and seek to influence events and attitudes in relation to those matters affecting the industry which give greatest concern to the community generally. But for these matters to be given government attention does not require the continued presence of a government regulatory agency. 
I believe that had this Senate been given the opportunity to debate the position statement on future arrangements for the stevedoring industry prepared by  Mr Northrop,  now  Mr Justice  Northrop, we would have been able to give to the Minister some indication of the line which he could follow in this most important matter. It is a most important matter. The future of the stevedoring industry is one of the vital matters facing this nation today. We are a great trading nation. We depend on a stable situation in our stevedoring industry. We are not likely to get that if there is a substantial withdrawal of community interest in the industry. We are certainly not going to get it if the industry is turned over to monopoly power which is governed purely by self-interest. 
I am not going to proceed with an amendment in this debate in order to attempt to have my contingent notice of motion proceeded with. I am told that I will not get the majority support of the Senate, and I suppose that is a good enough reason for not proceeding with the contingent notice of motion. 
With respect to  Senator Wright,  I would have thought that if there were a debate on the position statement, the debate would have ranged far and wide over the matters contained in that statement instead of the matters that are contained in these Bills, which in effect mainly extend the time of operation until 1 January 1977. 1 cannot do anything to amend these Bills, and I support them. However, one provision in this Bill does give me concern in that it perpetuates, at least until 1 January 1977, charges that are based on man hours and not on tonnage rates. In the position statement  Mr Northrop  stated: 
The ASIA anticipates that the accumulated deficit as at 30 June 1976 in its accounts will be of the order of $20m. The NIC submission estimates this deficit as being between $20m and $30m. The ASIA says this deficit is primarily the difference between the accumulated liability for long-service leave for waterside workers and the amount invested for that purpose. The NIC and the WWF claim that current liquidity problems being experienced by the ASIA are restricting the implementation of redundancy procedures since the ASIA cannot fund the redundancy payments. 
Who is going to pick up the tab for that $20m to $30m? Is the taxpayer going to pick up the tab? Surely arrangements should have been made last year to ensure that the levy was on a tonnage basis so that there would be sufficient moneys for the stevedoring industry to meet its obligations. Quite obviously, any levy that is based on man hours is likely to decline in importance. The reason for that, of course, is increased mechanisation and technological change and containerisation. In those circumstances, it would have been quite obvious that the recommendation made last year for the change of the basis of the levy from man hours to tonnage would have gone some way towards overcoming that problem. 
-I am not going into that question. Of course, that is a matter we would have been able to go into, I should imagine, had we been discussing the position statement. I want to refer to something  Senator Wright  said. I may have misunderstood him; I feel sure that I have. He seemed to reflect on the Hobart branch of the Waterside Workers Federation. I want to say that the Hobart branch of the Federation, as I am sure  Senator Wright  knows, has an enviable record so far as strikes are concerned. I know that  Senator Wright  did not go into that aspect, but I want to say to him and to the Senate that the Hobart branch of the Waterside Workers Federation has a good industrial record. Over recent years, it has not participated in political stoppages, as have the Melbourne and Sydney branches to the detriment of Tasmanian shipping. Much of the credit due to the Hoban branch should go to the late Arch Fulton, who was the secretary of the Hobart branch of the Waterside Workers Federation. 
My concern about the statement of the Minister is that if the Government is going to withdraw from an interest in the stevedoring industry and if the community's interest is withdrawn from the stevedoring industry then not only will the hard work that went into getting a community interest in the stevedoring industry go to waste but also we could see the whole of the industry turned over to monopoly power. I can well remember discussions that took place on this matter in the mid-1960s when I was a member of the Australian Council of Trade Unions Executive and there were some substantial disputes on the waterfront. I can recall the conferences that were held at that time with the Ministers and the discussions that were held within the ACTU. The ACTU was concerned to ensure that the rights of all parties on the waterfront were maintained. 
At the present moment I notice that the Association of Employers of Waterside Labour suggests that the Government should get out of the stevedoring industry. Of course, the Association wants the Government to get out of the stevedoring industry so that it can have it all its own way. What is the AEWL? It represents the ship owners. If one analyses which shipowners are associated with the AEWL one finds that the majority in strength of these are the overseas shipping interests. On the other hand we have the Waterside Workers Federation saying that the Government should not play a major role in the stevedoring industry. It further adds the suggestion that the Waterside Workers Federation should be the only union on the waterfront. I can tell honourable senators that suggestion went up like a lead balloon with the other unions on the waterfront. But we hear the employers- the ship owners- saying that they ought to have monopoly power over the workers on the waterfront. I think that the Senate ought to be aware of the dangers of these proposals. 
We have also the suggestion that the council to run the stevedoring industry would ensure that the cost lies where it falls. What is this going to do to ports within Australia? What is it going to do to ports within my State? Obviously, through economic blackmail, the monopolists who would then control the stevedoring industry would force the centralisation of ports. That would mean a loss of employment opportunities on the wharf. That is something that should be borne in mind by not only workers on the waterfront but also by the community as a whole and by the marine authorities concerned. 
Finally, I want to say that insufficient guarantees have been given to the workers of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. These workers have not been given proper guarantees as to their future. I should like to see the Minister give an assurance to this chamber that the accumulated rights of the workers employed by the ASIA will be preserved- their rights to continued permanent employment. Many of the clerks who have been employed by the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority have known no other work. If the Government is thinking about chopping out the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority it has a duty to tell the workers employed by that Authority right here and now that their rights to a future will be preserved. I believe that the Minister should go into immediate consultation and negotiation to this effect with the union concerned. 
As I mentioned before, I shall not proceed with my contingent notice of motion. I shall support the legislation since it serves only to extend the operation of the existing legislation until 1 January 1977. I look forward with interest and not a little trepidation to what the Government proposes to do about the problems facing the stevedoring industry and about the need to make sure that there is a viable community interest in the stevedoring industry- an interest which is truly national and nationalist to ensure that the community will not be held to ransom by monopolists. 
The answer to the question that I am about to ask the Minister will influence not only my vote but also, I believe, the attitude of a great many people outside this chamber, including a large number of members of trade union organisations. I would like the Minister when she replies to the debate to indicate whether the Government intends to give a guarantee that the levy will be maintained at no more than the level set out in the Bill, and whether the premium also will be maintained at the level set out in the Bill. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Education, follows a question asked by  Senator Wood  concerning the decline in standards of basic mathematics amongst students. My question, however, refers to the Schools Commission. The Minister will be aware of the concern felt by independent schools in Tasmania about the fact that they were short changed by an amount of $250,000 as a result of the combined operation of the Schools Recurrent Resources Index-the SRRI-of the Schools Commission and the level of grants in the State of Tasmania. Is the Minister further aware of the grave concern felt by senior Tasmanian Government educationalists that the Schools Commission's recommendation short changed the Tasmanian education system by $1.5m as a result of the fact that it was based on unsatisfactory mathematical criteria? In view of this error, will the Minister ensure that the Schools Commission undertakes a compulsory course in basic mathematics or, alternatively, will he ensure that his headmaster makes the Schools Commission write out 'we owe a debt to Tasmanian education' 1.75 million times? 
I must rise again. I meant the whole of the statements that were made on that matter during the second reading debate, including the statements of  Senator Button. 
I rise to speak briefly on this measure. I do so for 2 reasons. One is that the previous  speaker  referred to the question of discrimination, and the other is to point out to the Senate a little bit of the history of child endowment payments. As to my first reason for speaking, I agree with  Senator Ryan  that part of the reason why women were forced into the work force was the development of consumerism and materialism to the extent that there were socially created wants instead of needs. These forced women out into the work force. 

 Senator Ryan mentioned also the problem of housing, which is still with us, and the problems related to the education of children. There was another factor, however, particularly in the 1960s. That factor was the combination of forces resulting from employers and the Department of Labour and National Service seeking to attract women into the labour force as a source of cheap labour prior to the introduction of equal pay. That was one of the very reasons why the trade union movement fought to achieve equal pay. The trade union movement was conscious of the fact that if the employers and the Department of Labour and National Service were allowed to get away with their campaign to attract a large number of women into the work force as a source of cheap labour, obviously that would have a most disastrous effect on employment opportunities and wage standards of breadwinners. In addition, and most importantly, the trade union movement sought to achieve equality- that is, equal pay for work of equal value- for women as of right. 
I speak with some experience about the question of discrimination because I was a member of the Tasmanian Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation. We did have a large number of complaints whilst I was a member of that Committee from women because they were discriminated against in their employment and occupation. To emphasise the point that I made on a previous occasion that many women at home are discriminated against in their occupation, I wish to quote from a letter that was written to the Tasmanian Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation by a  Mrs H.  M. Speden. I am able to quote this letter because she sent a copy of it to me in my then capacity as Secretary ofthe Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. I, in my capacity as a union secretary now have a copy of that letter. The letter states in part: 
I wish to make submissions to the Tasmanian Committee on Discrimination in Employment and Occupation that I am being discriminated against by the Federal Government of Australia in my occupation as a Mother. I claim that I am being discriminated against socially, financially and in terms of equality of treatment, opportunity for advancement, conditions of work and job satisfaction, as outlined below. 
Then she lists in quite a degree of detail the reasons to support her claim of discrimination.  Her  claim is really made on behalf of all mothers who are in the situation of being faced with the choice of staying home and looking after the children or of being forced into employment. To save time, I ask for leave to incorporate this letter in  Hansard. 
Clause 1 1 deals with the increase in the number of industrial court judges. I feel that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  with undue flippancy passed over the comments that were made in the second reading debate. The Government ought to have a serious study of what was said about that provision in the second reading debate. There is one good thing about this Bill coming into the Parliament and for it I congratulate the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and his Department. We have a consolidated version of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I am sure that all honourable senators will appreciate that very sincerely. 
It is not my intention to speak at length on this Bill. There have been discussions in respect of the provisions of the Bill between the Government and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I find it extraordinarily difficult to speak in a chamber like this. In fact, since I became a member of the Senate I have found this chamber to be the most difficult place in which to speak. I have found that one has only one-quarter of one's potential audience, and that three-quarters of that audience is not terribly interested in what one says. The only ones who are interested are you,  Mr President,  the 2 Clerks and the  Hansard  writers.  (Quorum formed)  I thank  Senator 
Douglas McClelland for drawing attention to the state of the chamber. 
I propose to discuss only 4 matters relating to this Bill. Whilst  Senator Messner  will not relish some of the things that I will say about this Bill, it is at least refreshing to see that at last some common sense is being talked about what is called the collegiate system. The debate on that subject in the other place was brought to such a low level of ignorance and prejudice by 2 members that when you speak of the collegiate system some people think you are speaking about the college of cardinals. On this matter parliamentarians seem to be getting involved in an unnecessary argument as to whether the direct or centralist system or the collegiate or federalist system is the most appropriate system of voting in elections for registered organisations and on associated matters concerning plebiscites. 
The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  when introducing the Bill, mentioned this subject, and the Minister in the other place gave an undertaking concerning it. Certainly the arguments tend to favour the collegiate system. They are arguments based on rank and file control and democracy and also on federalism. There are arguments based on the rights of small States. There are arguments based on the fact that a centralist system gives favour to those with money or to those with a political machine behind them. But all that is irrelevant. I belong to 4 unions. One of those unions has a collegiate system of voting and another has the direct system of voting. It is a simple situation that the different registered organisations have different methods of self-government according to their own traditions, preferences, geographical and industrial coverage and administrative experience. The matter is for the choice of the union. When one says that the matter is for the choice of the union, the question is asked: Is that the choice of the officials of the union or is it the choice of the members of the union? That question also shows a great deal of ignorance, because the questions of plebiscites and whether one system or another gives greater or truer rank and file control are already covered. The issue of control of organisations by the membership is covered by regulation 1 1 5, backed up by a whole body of case law in the Australian Industrial Court. 
The surprising part about all of this argument is that no one has bothered, either during this session or when the Act was amended in 1 973, to present the situation to the Parliament in its true perspective; that is to say, the right of the union to determine its own form of self-government according to its own traditions, preferences, geographical and industrial coverage and administrative convenience. I know of one union which if it did not have the collegiate system, would not have been able to get 3 branches to federate with it. I talk of the Shop Distributive and Allied Employees Association. I go back to 'Bull' O'Dea's time. When we were trying to get three of the branches to federate, they did so on the basis that their rights and the rights of the branches in the smaller States would be protected. Incidentally, the body of case law to which I referred confirms that the collegiate or federalist system or method is consistent with the principles of rank and file control. 
Prior to the 1973 amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act the majority of registered organisations in fact had rules which provided for that very system. The 1973 amendments to the Act brought condemnation from large numbers of trade unions because they were not consulted prior to those amendments being introduced or carried. We saw a situation in which overnight the traditions of organisations and their methods of operation had been changed without any consultation with the individual registered organisations. Despite this body of case law and the obvious preference of most unions- I emphasise the words 'most unions'for the federalist or collegiate system, the Act was changed to withdraw the right of registered organisations to choose their best method of selfgovernment and to force them to change their rules by the direct or centralist system within 3 years of the commencement of the 1973 Act. I know of quite a number of organisations which have no intention of allowing the meddling in their own affairs to take effect. They will not change their rules; or if they are forced to, some of them in fact will defederate. That is not a good situation for the industrial system of this country. 
I said 'defederate'. Do not bring up deregistration. That is a big weapon. I will deal with it while I am dealing with the question of the Australian Industrial Court, which I do not want to deal with at length.  Senator Button  has made some comments on that matter, and he is a practitioner in that jurisdiction. This Bill, 2 months after objection was taken to a similar provision, again seeks to increase the number of Australian Industrial Court judges. I would like to remind the Senate of what I said on that occasion. What I said is recorded in the  Hansard  reports of 2 and 3 March 1 976. I spoke with a great deal of forethought and 1 attempted to choose my words carefully. We are dealing with a very sensitive area. In the final analysis the Government must realise that the correct operation of the Australian Industrial Court ultimately is the linchpin of the system itself, of registration of organisations and so on. I said: 
I return to what I said in opening and I say this with the greatest degree of commitment that I can gather at this time of night. I say it because I have defended for a long period the system of conciliation and arbitration that we have in this country. 
I also said: 
I say in conclusion that it is basic to the implementation of any industrial policy- good or bad- that the entity known as the Australian Industrial Court should exist and that it should command the respect of the other participants in the system. 
I also stated, when referring to the need for the judges of the Australian Industrial Court to work full time on the work of the Court: 
Two significant results would arise from having a complete availability of judges. Firstly, the Industrial Court would be able to operate with the same degree or regularity, continuity and stability as do the High Court and the Supreme Courts of the States. Secondly, the reputation and effectiveness of the Industrial Court would be enhanced because of its increased efficiency and capacity to deal more readily with matters coming before it. 
I add: In a more consistent manner. I leave it at that, for the Government again to give consideration to my words, if it wants to do so. If it does not, it should give consideration to what other people who know the situation have to say. The Government obviously took no notice of what I said on that occasion, and that was one of the reasons why I commenced my address tonight the way I did. 
It is not my intention to vote for the second reading of this Bill. My reason is that by the Government's own statements- in fact, by virtue of the clauses of the Bill- it is not an urgent matter. It is not going to operate so far as the significant clauses are concerned apart from the Australian Industrial Court judge provision, until the Bill is proclaimed. There are other very important and vital matters which should be considered and included in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Let me refer to just a couple of these matters. I refer to sections 140 ( 1 ) (d) and 1 33a from memory. The unions were required to conform to these 2 provisions and to change their rules in line with these 2 provisions some time ago. A minority of unions have conformed because many of the unions concerned- the registered organisations- find that they cannot conform with those provisions. 
Briefly stated, section 133a refers to certain funds establishment and section 140 ( 1 ) (d) was the provision which required the rules of the organisation to provide for branches to have certain autonomy over their membership and also in matters under State tribunals. Section 133 ( 1)  (0  was one of the amendments made in 1973. It cut right across the provisions of many unions' rules which enabled the rank and file to have recall powers over their union officials. As a union official I say that that is not fair on the rank and file. At the present moment under this provision the secretary almost has to shoot the branch committee of management before he can be sacked and then he could say that there was no quorum. Section 133 ( 1) (f) provides that the rules of the association or organisations:   . . shall not provide for the dismissal from office of a person elected to an office within the association or organisation unless he has been found guilty, in accordance with the rules of the associations or organisation, of misappropriation of the funds of the association or organisation, a substantial breach of the rules ofthe association or organisation - 

 Senator Button- The Minister for Science, who could not tell a stubby from a test tube, is interjecting in the course of my comments concerning something about which he knows absolutely nothing- even less than he knows about his own portfolio. The fact ofthe matter is that, as I put earlier,  Senator Harradine  is talking about an Act ofthe Parliament and the amendments to that Act which, as the Minister for Education,  Senator Carrick,  well knows, deals with subject matters different from the sections of the Act which the Senate is debating. I am interested in  Senator Harradine  's views. I should like to hear them on another occasion. But this is not the appropriate time and he should not be allowed to discuss these matters now. 
My question is also directed to you,  Mr President,  in your capacity as being responsible jointly with the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives for the overall production of  Hansard.  Can you inform the Senate why the cover page for the Senate  Hansard  contains the words 'Commonwealth of Australia' underneath the crest and yet the House of Representatives  Hansard  does not? Is there some doubt whether the House of Representatives is part of the Commonwealth of Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. As this is the first question directed to the Minister, I trust it is in order for me to congratulate  Senator Durack  on his appointment to the Ministry. 
Honourable senators- Hear, hear! 
I am being courteous. Does the Minister recall that, in answer to a question in the last session of this Parliament, I was promised information concerning the number of unions which had altered their rules in order to comply with the provisions of section 133a and section 140 ( 1 ) (d) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, as required by the 1974 amendments to that Act introduced on the recommendation of  Mr Justice  Sweeney by the then Minister for Labor and Immigration, the  Hon.  Clyde Cameron? Is the Minister aware that his colleague, whom he represents in this place, informed me by letter on 1 1 August 1976 that of the 228 organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act only three have made the alterations and ten have sought exemptions. Granted there might be a remote possibility that some organisations were unaffected by the amendments to the Act and consequently were not required to make alterations to their rules, does the Minister agree that there must be something radically wrong with those sections of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in view of the fact that probably more than 90 per cent of registered organisations have found it impossible to comply with them? Does the Minister agree that the information provided by his colleague constitutes a most damning indictment of those amendments to sections 133 and 140 ofthe Conciliation and Arbitration Act, for which the  Hon.  Clyde Cameron was responsible and reveals how far removed they are from the industrial realities experienced by trade unions and other registered organisations? 
-by leave-  Senator Withers,  on behalf of the Government,  Senator Wriedt,  on behalf of the Opposition, and  Senator Webster,  on behalf of the National Country Party, have paid tribute to  Mr Bridgman.  They have done so with more knowledge and greater eloquence than I am capable of. However, as the only independent senator in this place and also, if I may, on behalf of new senators I join them in this tribute. Before coming to this place I often went to meetings at night and read Press reports of those meetings next morning. Frankly, I often wondered whether I had been at the meeting that was reported in the Press. I have never experienced that in this place. One can read the  Hansard  report on the morning after a sitting day and find that it is a very accurate and true expression of what occured during the previous day's proceedings. Much of this high standard is due to persons such as  Mr Bridgman.  I join other honourable senators in wishing him a long and fruitful retirement. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. By way of preface I inform the Minister that I have in my possession a 1 7-page review and position paper on education vouchers prepared by the staff of the Curriculum Development Centre. As this Centre comes within the responsibility of the Minister's portfolio, I ask: How can he justify the involvement of the staff and of resources of the Centre in the preparation of a document basically critical of the education voucher proposal when the functions of the Centre, according to section 5 of the Curriculum Development Centre Act, are confined specifically to school curricula and school education materials? Further, because of the interest of the Minister and of the Prime Minister in the matter of education vouchers, is the Minister able to enlighten me as to what the staff of the Centre meant when it described the proposed models for voucher systems as having 'aggressively ideological underpinnings'? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and refers to the report of the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education for the triennium 1977-79. If I understand point 7 of the summary of conclusions correctly, under the guidelines formula there will be a shortfall of 12 500 student places at the end of this triennium when compared with the level which existed at the beginning of the last triennium in 1974. In view of this alarming forecast and the need to consider urgently an interim form of action pending realistic financing for technical education, will the Government give consideration to the possibility of utilising any spare capacity in tertiary education institutions so that all applicants for technical education courses will be catered for immediately rather than that they should have to postpone their enrolments. 
1 preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, by drawing attention to the article in the  Australian  of 27 August which reports that an imposter was recruited to the staff of Professor E. L. Wheelwright, at a very large salary, to work on a project which was funded by the Federal Government to the tune of $50,000. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to this article? In view of the fact that the project was funded in part by a grant of $50,000 from the Commonwealth Government, does the AuditorGeneral intend to investigate the matter with a view to determining whether the grant was used for the purpose for which it was given? If there has been improper use of the grant, is the Auditor-General able to institute proceedings for the recovery of money which may have been misused? 

 -Mr Acting Deputy President, I seek leave also to make a statement on the paper. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no dissent, leave is granted. 
I rise to make only a short statement in view of the fact that this paper is not intended for debate today. I thank the Senate for allowing me to make this short statement. The paper is an important paper and should not go without some comment further to that which has already been made. I refer particularly to the statement contained on page 6 of the document, which reads as follows: 
If real wages are not temporarily reduced by the application of orderly wage fixing principles, the market place will do it more harshly and take longer, with continued unemployment at unacceptable levels. 
I invite the Senate to examine those words very carefully and to see whether those words support the growing view that the Government may seek to attack the twin evils of inflation and unemployment by taking the easy way out for them and the harsh way out for the people of Australia. The problems of inflation and unemployment are well and truly recognised by the general trade union movement of Australia. It is quite wrong to say, as the Minister says in his statement, that: 
The nexus between inflation and unemployment although becoming increasingly understood is not sufficiently appreciated by the trade union movement . . . 
That statement is incorrect. Those who have to suffer the burdens of inflation, particularly the low income earners, do understand the problems of inflation in their own lives. They understand also that they are being denied opportunities for better employment or for any employment at all. 
The problem of unemployment at present is greater than any similar problem that has faced this country since the Depression. Unfortunately, the public debate on this matter has been marked by the Opposition accusing the Government of doing little to reduce inflation and unemployment and the Government, for its part, responding that it is all the fault of the previous Government. At a time when the nation is faced with the spectre of the highest unemployment since the Depression, there is no room for cheap political point scoring. There is a need for a combined effort by both sides of the Parliament and by all people within the community to face the problem and to attempt to remedy it. 
I am concerned that the Government may be taking the easy way out. It could be adopting the easy course of extending the pool of unemployment so as to create a market situation which, in its own words, will reduce real wages and thus reduce inflation. That is the easy way out. It is not tackling the real problems of unemployment. It is not tackling the problems of what the Government terms 'union militancy'. In its own words, the Government has said, in the Ministerial statement: 
If real wages are not temporarily reduced by the application of orderly wage fixing principles, the market place will do it more harshly and take longer . . . 
That statement to me spells out the creation of a greater pool of unemployed in an attempt to reduce the inflation rate and to reduce stoppages and strikes. But that does not go to the central problem. 
The central problem is not what are termed militant trade unionists'. If the Government seeks to name people, why does it not name those about whom it is talking. Do not call people 'militant trade unionists'. I am a militant trade unionist. I would fight for the right to preserve the functions of the trade union movement which are to get the best deal with the least cost. Why does not the Government pinpoint the problem in respect of industrial disputes and name the organisations or at least the communist and pro-communist leaders who are creating the problems. Do not union-bash right across the board. There was a growing attempt within the then Government towards the end of last year to do just what I suggest. Unfortunately, that opportunity was taken away from the former Government. 
I believe that this statement requires a deal of elaboration by the Minister. I believe that it requires the Minister to come out and say clearly and unequivocally to the Senate and to the nation which is listening that this statement is not designed to make an excuse for the Government's reluctance to attack the real issues and solve the real problems by creating an industrial atmosphere by amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and in other ways, so that the moderate element within the trade union movement could restore the authority of the central trade union organisation. 
The attacks which have been made on the central trade union organisation by the procommunist left are designed to weaken the power of the central trade union organisation in respect of the conduct and control of industrial disputes. They are designed also to ensure that the central trade union organisation cannot come to a proper compact with whatever government is in power. This Government made amalgamations much easier. The result has been a monster which is controlled by people like Halfpenny and Carmichael who take no notice of the Australian Council of Trade Unions when it deals with the Government on matters affecting the pay packets of the workers of this country. 
I appeal therefore to the Minister and to the Government to give an assurance to the Senate at this time that the Government will tackle those problems and will not create a situation in which the pool of unemployed will grow and in which the Government can take the easy way out instead of facing the problems. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It concerns St Helens, an idyllic spot on the east coast of Tasmania, the climate and geographical position of which attracts many thousands of tourists and retired people. The Minister will be aware, through representations from other honourable senators, the honourable member for Bass and his predecessor, of the difficulties concerning television and radio reception in the area. Can the Minister please tell us when the translator will be erected at St Helens? 
I oppose the motion. I have not been consulted in respect of this matter. Since Tuesday of last week I have been listed to speak on the Budget. I have matters which affect the employment situation in the State which I have the honour to represent to bring to the attention of the Senate. I believe that the collusion between the Government and the Opposition to prevent a debate on the Budget to continue tomorrow is a matter of concern and should be a matter of concern to the electors of my State. I consider that it would be only fair for the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  or the Government Whip and the Opposition Whip to consult me on these matters. I have not been consulted. There are matters of very grave concern which require urgent solution. I suggest to the Leader of the Government that he allow at least some time tomorrow for a debate on the Budget. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs in a position to advise the Senate of the truth or otherwise of the suggestion contained in an editorial in this morning's  Canberra Times  that the World Peace Council could be the inspiration behind the independent and non-aligned conference to be held in Melbourne next month? Further, is he able to provide any information on the claim in the same editorial that senior officials of the World Peace Council, which is a Soviet front organisation, were refused permission by the British Labour Government earlier this year to enter Britain? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that the current level of unemployment in Tasmania is the highest in Australia, having more than doubled in the last 2 years, whereas notified vacancies have shrunk by more than 25 per cent? As background I state that in the worst affected occupations there are 1 89 unemployed for each rural vacancy, 21 unemployed for each semiskilled vacancy and 54 unemployed for each unskilled vacancy. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the latest published figures on school leavers which show that 21.3 per cent of last year's school leavers in Tasmania have not yet obtained a job, as compared with the national figure of 14.2 per cent? Does the Minister agree that this is a situation which calls for very urgent and drastic action? Will the Minister consider establishing a joint task force between the Federal and State governments to examine ways and means of overcoming this problem? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What is the present state of relations with Cambodia? Does Australia have a representative in that country? Has the Australian Government protested against the barbarous killings by the Communist authorities of Cambodian citizens, reported to be in excess of 600 000? Is any special effort being made to assist the thousands of Cambodians who are refugees in camps in Thailand? Will the Government adopt a more generous policy towards the entry into Australia of more refugees from this area of South East Asia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware of the considerable concern of a large number of Australian citizens over the trial of Archbishop Lamont in Rhodesia? First, can the Minister inform the House whether, notwithstanding the fact that Australia does not have diplomatic relations with Rhodesia, the Australian Government has made any endeavours to send one of Australia's diplomatic staff in South Africa to observe the trial of Archbishop Lamont? Secondly, what is the Government's attitude towards applications from former Rhodesian nationals who wish to migrate to Australia? Has the Australian Embassy in South Africa been directed to adopt a favourable attitude towards such applications or is it correct, as I have been informed, that the Australian Embassy is not even bothering to reply to such applications? 
-I will take only 2 minutes to explain that I will be voting with the Opposition on these Bills. The Government should not have left debate on this most important issue until this very late stage. Certainly I am confused about the Government's proposals as are people in the State which I have the honour to represent. The fact that the Government has left it until this last minute to introduce this legislation shows its attitude to this chamber. All the organisational work has been done in the Department of Health and by Medibank in anticipation of the vote in this place. The Government has said that these proposals are part of its package which also includes improvements in family allowances and indexation of taxation. However, both the family allowances scheme and taxation indexation came into effect on a date different from the date on which the Medibank levy will come into effect. I would like to know whether the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  would withdraw this Bill. I know it is a faint hope but I think that the Minister should have regard to what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said yesterday about further tax cuts. So that working people will be able to afford the Medibank levy, why does the Government not delay imposing it until the Prime Minister is prepared to introduce the further tax relief he has promised? Those are some of the reasons why I feel obliged to vote with the Opposition on these Bills. 
-I would like to support what  Senator Grimes  has said. This matter is of very great importance. Consider, for example, the large number of people who rely on their contributions to a health fund to cover them for hospital services. Really I am talking about families now. Families with parents of child-bearing age will not be game to transfer from one fund to another. True freedom of choice will not be available to them unless this matter is cleared up. If I understood the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  correctly, there will be a waiting period of 2 months. If a condition for which a person has to enter hospital arises within those 2 months, the costs of the resultant hospitalisation will not be payable from the fund. In other words, if conception occurs within those 2 months the person going to hospital will find that she will have to pick up the tab. 
I support what was said by  Senator Grimes  and I appeal to the Minister to clear up this matter. I said before that he is a man of a few words, and that is something attractive in this chamber. I have never known him to say something that he did not mean or that he would not carry out. I appeal to the Minister, through you,  Mr Chairman,  to give some guarantee to the Committee and to the people of Australia that there will be true freedom of choice for the citizens of Australia to change from one fund to another, thus promoting the true competition between funds which is the desire of the Government. 
My remarks will be very brief because I know that the Minister who is in charge of this Bill, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton),  is a Minister of few words. That is what I like about him. He is a man who says 'yes' or 'no'. When he says 'yes' he means yes and when he says 'no' he means no. I am going to pose 2 questions in my submission to the Senate tonight. What  Senator Colston  has said is very true. When the levy hits the workers in October they will get a very deep shock indeed because there is a great deal of confusion amongst the wage and salary earners. 
It was all very well for the Government to say that the Medibank levy was part of a package deal. Sure it was part of a package deal- a threepoint package deal. The first point was tax indexation, the second was the improvements in the family allowances, and the third was the introduction of a Medibank levy. If the Medibank levy is part of a package deal, why did the Government not introduce the lot on the same date? I suggested in my previous submission to the Senate that the Government should withdraw this legislation because of the confusion that exists and should allow the Prime 
Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to work out his new deal so far as taxation is concerned. Only in the last couple of days he has said that the Government is going to have another look at taxation. Why does the Government not leave this Medibank levy until that particular measure is brought into the Parliament and is able to be discussed? As it is, confusion is going to reign supreme. The ordinary rank and file worker is going to see the Medibank levy as a cut in wages. 
The 2 questions to which I referred at the outset bear upon the limit or ceiling on the amount of levy payable and the right of the citizens of Australia to a true freedom of choice to change over from one system to another without a waiting period. In my first question, to which I hope the Minister will be able to answer ' yes ' or ' no ', I refer to the explanatory memorandum supplied with the Bill, which states in the introductory note: 
There is to be a limit (or 'ceiling') on the amount of levy payable so that it will not exceed $150 ($1 12.50 in 1976-77) for a person without dependants. Where a husband and wife are each a taxpayer the amount of levy payable by the couple is not to exceed $300 ($225 in 1976-77). 
I want to know whether the Government has a mandate to suggest that a ceiling of $300, which is more than 33 per cent above the sum of $225, will be the ultimate ceiling in view of the fact that it will be in office until 1978. Does the Government mean that between July 1977 and the time of the general election in 1978 inflation is going to increase by 33 per cent? If it does not mean that, it should cut out the $300 ceiling and leave it as $225 for a husband and wife and $1 12.50 for a single person as a gesture to the people. 
Secondly, I have no hangups about Medibank, whether it be general Medibank or Medibank Private. I have been a member of a private health fund, as I suppose most honourable senators have been, for years- in fact, for 20 years. I think the workers in this private health fund have done a very good job. I remember signing them up 1 5 years ago into a union. They are workers. They are entitled to a crust. They work hard. They do their job efficiently. I have no hangup on the question of Medibank. I have not made up my mind whether I will go into Medibank Private or maintain my contributions to a private health fund. 
I ask  Senator Cotton,  who is the Minister in charge of the Bill, in his reply to this debate to give a guarantee to the Senate and to the Australian community that people who retain their membership in a private health fund will enjoy real freedom of choice enabling them to transfer to Medibank Private or to opt for the levy system if the charges of the private health funds rise above those of Medibank. Conversely, I ask the Minister to guarantee that those who choose to sign up now with Medibank Private will have the right of freedom of choice, about which Government members so freely express themselves, as to whether they will change from Medibank Private to a private health fund if the price of Medibank skyrockets. 
Those are the two matters to which I wish to refer. I am sorry that I did not advise the Whips that I would speak. I had not intended to speak. I hope that the Minister in charge of the Bill in his down to earth practical manner which I, for one, appreciate, will answer those 2 questions. 
-I rise to question the basis on which this legislation is introduced into the Senate. It appears that the Government suggests that from 1 October there is to be a fee of $60 payable on the filing of each application for divorce. It goes on to say that this is an attempt to offset the high costs that are borne by the community in respect of family law proceedings. The second reading speech states that in this year's Budget a total of $9.5m has been provided for payment  to  private professions for legal aid and the approximately 80 per cent of this figure will represent payments for family law legal aid. 
If the Government's principle is that the user pays, either the fee that is now suggested is too low or the basis on which the fee is to be levied is wrong. Either the community pays through taxation on the basis of capacity to pay or the people who utilise the family law proceedings for divorce have to pay on the basis of their capacity to pay. Let us take, for example, a person on $30,000 a year. What is $60 to him? To the person who is on the weighted average minimum weekly wage, $60 is a great deal. Why does not the Government allow the court to assess the fee according to the circumstances of the applicant? Statistics prove that the richer you are the more divorces you have. Why then does not the Government- with its usual policy of the user pays- introduce that into this legislation? 
It is not there. 
You are saying that it is $60 for everybody? 
No, legal aid customers will not pay but a person on the weighted average minimum weekly wage does not qualify for legal aid. He is not within the means test. The Government ought to have a good look at the operation of the Family Law Act to see how much of the tab the taxpayers of this country are picking up for those who wish to indulge themselves in respect of this  matter. 
Indulge themselves in respect of this matter. I remind the Senate of the statistics I mentioned which prove that the richer you are the more divorces you have. All right, let the rich people pay for the divorces. The Government should not set a standard fee of $60 across the board. The amount of $60 means nothing to a person on $30,000 a year, who is more likely to have a divorce than a person who is on the weighted average minimum weekly award. 
Is the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that a telex message concerning the illegal radio transmitter in Darwin, sent yesterday from a  Mr Denis  Freney of the Campaign for an Independent East Timor to the offices of the  Canberra Times,  was in fact sent from the offices of the Communist Party newspaper  Tribune? ls  the Minister aware that the Communist Party has adopted double standards on the matter of self-determination, having refused to support this right for the West New Guineans at the time of the takeover of West New Guinea by the Sukarno regime, which was then in close contact with the Soviet Union, a communist country? Does the Minister have any information on the involvement of the Communist Party in the East Timor issue? Would he agree that the involvement of the Communist Party has hindered moves for Timorese self-determination rather than assist them? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the question that I asked on 23 September 1976 which dealt with the considerable concern of a large number of Australian citizens over the trial of Bishop Lamont in Rhodesia and also the matter of former Rhodesian nationals wishing to migrate to Australia. I ask the Minister: Has he any further information to add to that which he gave me on that occasion? Is he aware of the fact that Bishop Lamont has appealed? Can the Government at this stage give an indication whether a representative from Australia will be able to attend that appeal trial? On the broader question, will the Government give consideration to having some official Australian presence in Rhodesia in order to ensure that our interests and the interests of a peaceful settlement in that country towards majority rule and protection of minority rights are pursued? 
-I move: 
That so much of standing order 64 be suspended as would prevent time being made available for any senator from the 
State of Tasmania speaking on the matter of urgency concerning unemployment which, in Tasmania, is at a higher level than in any other State. 
I am loath to move this motion but I am forced to do so because my name is not on the list of speakers. Not only is my name not on the list of speakers; the name of only one other Tasmanian senator is on the list of speakers even though Tasmania has the highest unemployment rate in Australia.  Senator Archer  is listed to speak but his name appears right down at the bottom of the speakers' list, under the dotted line which, I am informed, is the point at which this debate will be gagged. So, in effect, no Tasmanian senator will be able to speak on this matter of very grave importance. I do not wish to delay the proceedings of the Senate but I believe that Tasmanian senators ought to be in the forefront of a debate on this matter of unemployment. The situation in my State is that whilst overall unemployment in Australia, according to the last figures available in August, is running at a rate of 4.4 per cent, the figure for Tasmania is S.3 per cent. 
The proposed urgency motion also deals with the serious problems confronting persons under 20 years of age who are unemployed. On an Australiawide basis 38 per cent of the total unemployed are teenagers, but in Tasmania the proportion is 45 per cent. Of last year's school leavers, the proportion unemployed, according to the last figure published in May- if these figures are out of date, do not blame the Senate or the public, blame the Government for not updating them- is 14.2 per cent for the whole of Australia, but in Tasmania the proportion is 2 1.3 per cent. In the 2 years since August 1 974 - 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I want to enter this debate - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder! The sitting of the Senate is suspended until 8 o'clock. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 

 - Mr President, we are debating an urgency motion on the unemployment situation within Australia. The debate thus far has been characterised by point scoring attempts with the Opposition criticising the Government for failing to reverse the trend of unemployment and inflation and with the Government saying that in any event this was all the Opposition's fault because of its actions when it was in power last year and the year before. The nation is now faced with the spectre of unemployment at a higher level than at any other time since the Depression of the 1930s. On the last published figures, the average length of unemployment had increased from 14.6 weeks according to the February figures to 17.1 weeks as shown in the figures for May. About one quarter of the young unemployed have been unemployed for between 13 weeks and 26 weeks, whilst nearly 20 per cent of them have been unemployed for 6 months or more. In addition, we are faced with the prospect of 200 000 school leavers entering the work force together with an additional SO 000 graduates at the end of this year.  Mr President,  this is not the time for cheap political point scoring. In fact, it is the time when we should see the need for a combined cooperative approach to tackle the twin evils causing hardship, those evils being inflation and unemployment, and should seek to analyse the nature of the unemployment and to prescribe remedies. 

 Mr President, I stand here for the young people of this country who are desperately seeking work and who are unable to obtain it. I stand here for the parents with children of school leaving age who are confused and very worried about the prospects of only 6 out of every 10 school leavers in 1977 getting a job. I commend the Government on the initiatives that it has taken thus far, but those initiatives are not good enough either generally or for the specific problems of unemployment in certain geographical locations. An Assistant Secretary of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Kirby,  stated in his report that: The study of the nature of youth unemployment has not been given appropriate attention. He also said, significantly that since the mid 1960s unemployment rates among young people have risen more rapidly than adult unemployment rates. He stated further: 
It can be expected to persist in a greater or lesser degree irrespective of economic recovery and improved labour demand. 
So it is no good for the Government to say broadly that the unions are to blame. I ask the Government, when it attempts to say that, to distinguish. Sure, the pro-communist Left within the trade union movement directed from outside should be exposed for its political exploitation of the trade union movement for its ends and for the damaging affect that its actions have on employment in Australia. But for the Government to say that trade unions generally are to blame is to ignore the clear fact that youth unemployment, in the words of the Government's own expert, will 'persist in a greater or lesser degree irrespective of economic recovery and improved labour demands'. 
I said previously- and I support the viewpoint of  Mr Kirby-  that more attention should be paid to the analysis of the nature of unemployment. I will show tonight that there is a direct correlation between the increase in the number of married women in the work force since the early 1960s and the increase in juvenile unemployment. Figures show that in 1961 married women made up 9.47 per cent of the work force. Married women now represent 21.71 per cent of the work force. On the other hand, juvenile unemployment over the same period has increased from- it has increased from - 
I am quite sure of my figures. I am talking about female unemployment. Female unemployment in the 15 years to 19 years age group has increased from 8.22 per cent to 17.19 per cent while male unemployment in the same age group has increased from 10.12 per cent to 17.54 per cent. Those figures establish a direct correlation between the increase in the number of married women in the work force and the increase in juvenile unemployment. Why has there been such a dramatic increase in the number of married women in the work force? 
There was a deliberate policy of the then Department of Labour and National Service and of employers to attract a source of cheap labour into the work force. An Opposition senator is trying to interject. I do not know what he is trying to say, but I point out that that policy was continued by the Labor Government. Posters could be seen in the Department of Labour and Immigration which read: 'Mothers Liberation'. I ask: liberation from what? They were liberated from the most important job that a mother can do in the community and were condemned into the work force. There was indeed a positive discrimination against mothers who chose to stay at home. 
This positive discrimination was engendered by radical feminist propaganda. Indeed, it is still going on. On the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Lateline- or  the 'Marxist halfhour' as it is colloquially known- recently there was a statement by a radical feminist to the effect that there should be 2 -income families and that the husband should go to work for 4 hours a day and the wife should go to work for 4 hours a day. Such a practice would reinforce employer attempts to make the dual income the norm and would make it much harder for the family wage earner to make ends meet. I will say this: If this state of affairs goes on too much longer the workers of this country will mount a frontal attack on radical feminist organisations which are seeking to lower the standards of the workers - 
You have not heard me out. I was referring to radical feminist organisations seeking to lower the standards of the workers and to debase the values which we hold most dear. I shall deal now with  Senator Mulvihill  's interjection. I have always upheld and fought for equality and freedom of choice of married women to enter the work force. Is this freedom of choice present? A recent survey showed that the majority of married women in the work force- almost 80 per cent- are there for economic reasons, either of socially created want or of need. A number of women are forced into the work force through economic reasons or economic pressures. On the other hand a large number of unemployed youths are desperately seeking to get into the work force. Why does not the Government look at the proposition of introducing a realistic home maker's allowance to be paid to all mothers and home-makers and which will give to those mothers who are forced into the work force and who do not desire to stay there a true freedom of choice? 
In addition, the Government should look at the problems faced by young people trying to get homes. It should tackle the problem of high interest rates. It should tackle the problems faced by young people who are trying to get loans at reasonable rates of interest. Many young married women must work for eight to ten years to get the basic requirements of a home. The Government should improve the homes savings grant scheme. 
When I was first married we lived in more flats than Beethoven used for his fifth symphony. 
That is probably right. In addition, the Government should look at the question of a reduction in sales tax which, in essence, is a regressive tax which falls more heavily on those who can least afford to pay. The Government ought to give special consideration to those areas in most need of assistance. Tasmania is one such area. I make no apologies for coming into the debate at this time. I am entitled of right to have my say in this chamber. The exercise of this right is not dependent on the Government nor on the opposition. 

 - Senator Brown is trying to shut me up. I do not depend on him either. I will stand for the rights of my State, although  Senator Justin  O "Byrne is not here to stand up for the rights of the unemployed in Tasmania. I have fought for the rights of the unemployed in my State. Why does not the Government look at the situation in Tasmania? It should recognise that Tasmania is the most decentralised State in Australia and should come to some agreement with the Tasmanian Government about payroll tax. What is payroll tax? It is a tax against employment. The decentralised industries in Victoria get some concessions in this regard. Tasmania as a whole, as a decentralised area, should be given similar treatment. About 3 weeks ago I asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs,  Senator Durack,  who represents the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  a question about Tasmania. It has the highest rate of unemployment. In that State 45 per cent of the unemployed are teenagers, as compared with 38 per cent on a national average. Over the last 2 years unemployment has more than doubled, and vacancies have shrunk by almost 25 per cent. I asked the Minister whether, bearing those factors in mind, Tasmania could be regarded as having special problems and whether the Government would establish a joint task force to overcome the chronic unemployment in that State because it needs particular attention. I commend the suggestion to you,  Mr President,  to the Senate and again to the Minister. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, deals with the special incentive for the youth employment training scheme. Whilst that scheme has been applauded and everybody wishes it success, I ask: What steps are being taken by the department concerned to ensure that existing workers will not be replaced by trainees under the scheme, that there will be some guarantee of continuity of employment for trainees under the scheme and that the overall result of the scheme will be a net increase in employment within the participating undertakings, whether they be pub- . lie or private. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Last Thursday in a question to the Minister about the youth employment training scheme I asked what procedures had been adopted to ensure that the trainees would not replace existing workers; whether there would be some continuity of employment for the trainees and whether the overall result of this scheme would be an increase in employment in the participating undertakings. In reply the Minister said he would try to obtain some information. I ask the Minister whether he has any information on this most vital matter. 
-As the only Independent senator, I join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  the Leader of the National Country Party in the Senate,  Senator Webster,  and all those who have paid tribute to the late  Senator Greenwood  in supporting this motion. I cannot add to what has been said by the people who quite obviously were his friends. I did not know him before I became a senator, but his reputation was widespread. I knew him through his reputation. That reputation was one of fairness, courage and dedication to principle. I would like the Senate and his family to know that in the last three or four months, when going around my State, many people asked about  Senator Greenwood's  health. That truly amazed me until I learned that the people who asked me realised that he was a man who stood for principle, a man who believed that the law should be available to protect the weak from the powerful. He fearlessly pursued this belief, not only for the ordinary people but also for the ethnic minorities when those minorities were under severe harassment from the powerful and the mighty in this country. So many people owe so much to  Senator Greenwood's  self-sacrificing dedication.  Mrs Greenwood  and her family shared and are now sharing in a very real sense that spirit of dedication and self-sacrifice. They deserve our respect. We pray that this spirit will be sustained. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
Motion (by  Senator Withers)  agreed to: 
That as a mark of respect to the late  Senator Greenwood  the sitting of the Senate be suspended until 8 p.m. 
Sitting suspended from 3.36 to 8 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to a report in the  Australian  this morning which under the headline Nareen target for Lee protests' states: 
A foreign students group, which gets $8,500 a year from the Federal Government, will demonstrate outside  Mr 
Fraser's home at Nareen, Victoria, while the Prime Minister of Singapore,  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew is there. 
I could not care less how many overseas students or Australian students demonstrate against Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, but what I am concerned about and what my question is concerned about is the expenditure of public moneys for that purpose. How can the Government justify the provision of $1 1,400 to the overseas Students Service, which is a division of the Australian Union of Students, a wealthy organisation with a budget of over $650,000 compulsorily levied from students, particularly when such funds should be earmarked for aid purposes and could be spent on helping starving peoples in Asia? How can the Government - 
My question to the Minister for Social Security is asked in the context of what I believe to be a Cabinet submission about a choice for public servants to retire at the age of 55 years. I preface my question by reminding the Minister that the classification which suffers most from unemployment comprises unskilled workers and that a number of unskilled workers are seeking to retire at the age of 60 years. What action has the Government taken to assess the effect and cost of reducing the pensionable age for males to 60 years thus providing an opportunity for those who desire to retire to do so at that age? Would not a reduction in the pensionable age for males to 60 years eliminate the current sex discrimination upon which the age for retirement is based? Would the Minister not agree that a reduction in the pensionable age to 60 years for men who desire to retire would have the dual beneficial effect to the community of allowing those members of the work force to retire as they desire and to make employment opportunities available to unemployed people in the same classifications thus reducing the overall unemployment benefit payable? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister and refers to a report in today's Hobart  Mercury  dealing with the student demonstration yesterday against the Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Kuan Yew. The newspaper report states that the students arrived in a blue and white government bus and that one of the students said that the Australian Union of Students sponsored them together with other organisations such as the Malaysian Union of Students. Will the Minister confirm to the Senate that both of those organisations, according to the information given by the Government to Estimates Committee A, are funded by the Australian Government for activities amongst Australian and overseas students? 
Does the Minister recall that on 13 October I asked him whether or not the organiser of the current protests against Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew was funded by the Government? If he is able to answer now and if the answer is no, was the information given by the Government to Estimates Committee A deliberately misleading or just plain false? If the answer is yes, how can the Government explain its hypocrisy in extending the hand of welcome to Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew and with the other hand giving away taxpayers' money to organisations which use it for the purpose of demonstrating against heads of government from South East Asian countries? 
I rise to seek some information about where this Advisory Council for InterGovernment Relations will be located. Nothing in the Bill states that the Council will be located in Hobart. I know that the Government's policy is that it will be located in Hobart, but I was surprised to find no provision in the Bill for the Council to be located in Hobart. I wonder whether this will be done in some other fashion. If so, I would be obliged if the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick),  who is in charge of the Bill, will advise the Senate and the people of Australia in that regard. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article on the front page of the  Hobart Mercury  entitled House angered by abortion pamphlet', referring to an abortion pamphlet jointly sponsored by the Australian Union of Students, the Womens 
Abortion Action Committee and the Womens Centre in Hobart? Can the Minister explain why Federal Government funds given to the Womens Centre in Hobart are being used to sponsor and distribute blatantly pro-abortionist propaganda material to school children in Tasmania? The propaganda material depicts a cartoon of a naked woman with a foetus attached to her ankle by an umbilical cord in the form of a ball and chain. Is the Minister aware that the Premier of Tasmania, the  Hon.  W. A. Neilson, said that if young school children were being subjected to rape of the mind the government would take a strong view and if necessary would legislate to prevent it? 
If you agree with this senator, you get up and say so. I ask the Minister: Will she now publicly applaud the statesmanlike declaration of the Premier of Tasmania in respect of this matter? Will the Minister give a guarantee that Federal funds which are used for the purpose of distributing blatantly proabortionist propaganda will cease to be made available? 
It will be 20 years on Saturday since the brave Hungarian people, led in great part by workers and students, rose against the Stalinist dictatorship which had for many years held them in bondage. For a brief 2 weeks it looked as though democracy would come to the people of 
Hungary, that basic human rights would be restored and that freedom would again flower in that country. But this hope was dashed by the brutal crushing of the uprising by the totalitarian power of Soviet armed might. So I seek leave of the Senate to have incorporated in  Hansard  on this occasion 2 pages containing the summary of conclusions of the United Nations Special Committee on Hungary. 

 The document read as follows- 

Summary of Conclusions 
The mandate given to the Special Committee by the General Assembly was to carry out a full and objective investigation on all aspects of Soviet intervention in Hungary by armed force and by other means and on the effects of such intervention on the political development of Hungary. In carrying out this mandate, the Committee studied a rich documentation supplied by Governments and obtained from other sources, while it closely questioned more than a hundred witnesses, representing every stratum of Hungarian society, whose testimony nils 2000 pages in the verbatim record. The General Assembly asked that investigations should be pursued in Hungary also, but the attitude of the Hungarian Government did not allow the Committee to carry out this part of its mandate. The Committee has summarised its conclusions as to the essential facts about the Hungarian uprising under thirteen points. The essence of these conclusions is as follows: 
What took place in Hungary was a spontaneous national uprising, caused by long-standing grievances. One of these was the inferior status of Hungary with regard to the U.S.S.R.; 
The uprising was led by students, workers, soldiers and intellectuals, many of them Communists or former Communists. Those who took part in it insisted that democratic socialism should be the basis of the Hungarian political structure, and that the land reform and other social achievements should be safeguarded. It is untrue that the uprising was fomented by reactionary circles in Hungary or that it drew its strength from 'Imperialist' circles in the West; 
The uprising was not planned in advance, but actually took participants by surprise. Its timing was connected with Poland's successful move for greater independence from the U.S.S.R. and with the disappointment caused by the speech of  Mr Erno  Gero on his return from Yugoslavia on 23 October, when it was hoped that he would adopt a sympathetic attitude towards the popular demands voiced on 22 October by the Hungarian students; 
It would appear that the Soviet authorities had taken steps as early as 20 October to make armed intervention possible. Evidence exists of troop movements, or projected troop movements, from that date on, and Soviet troops from outside Hungary were used even in the first intervention. In Hungary, signs of opposition were evident before 23 October; 
The demonstrations on 23 October were at first entirely peaceable and no evidence has been discovered that any demonstrators intended to resort to force. The change was due to the action of the AVH in opening fire on the people outside the Radio Building and to the appearance of Russian soldiers in Budapest as enemies in combat; 

 Mr Nagy has established that he did not issue any invitation to the Soviet authorities to intervene and the Committee has no evidence as to the circumstances in which an invitation was issued or as to whether such an invitation was issued at all. Similar considerations apply to the alleged invitation by  Mr Kadar  's Government for the Soviet troops to intervene on the second occasion. There is abundant evidence that Soviet preparations for this intervention had been under way since the last days of October; 

 Mr Nagy was not at first free to exercise the full powers of the Premiership. By the time the grip of the AVH had been loosened, the real power lay with the Revolutionary and Worker's Councils.  Mr Nagy,  seeing that his countrymen were united in their desire for other forms of Government and for the departure of the Soviet troops, threw in his lot with the insurgents; 
During the few days of freedom, the popular nature of the uprising was proved by the appearance of a free press and radio and by general rejoicing among the people; 
A number of lynchings and beatings by the crowds concerned, in almost all cases, members of the AVH or those who were believed to have co-operated with them; 
Steps taken by the Workers' Councils during this period were aimed at giving the workers real control of nationalised undertakings and at abolishing unpopular institutions, such as the production norms. Meanwhile, negotiations were proceeding for the complete withdrawal of Soviet troops and life in Budapest was beginning to return to normal; 
In contrast to demands put forward at this time for the re-establishment of political rights, basic human rights of the Hungarian people were violated by the Hungarian Governments before 23 October, especially up to the autumn of 1955, and such violations have been resumed since 4 November. The numerous accounts of inhuman treatment and tortures by the AVH must be accepted as true. In attempt to break the revolution, numbers of Hungarians, including some women, were deported to the Soviet Union and some may not have been returned to their homes. 
Since the second Soviet intervention on 4 November there has been no evidence of popular support for  Mr Kadar's  Government  Mr Kadar  has proceeded step by step to destroy the power of the workers. Strong repressive measures have been introduced and general elections have been postponed for two years. He refuses in present circumstances to discuss withdrawal of the Soviet troops. Only a small fraction of the 190 000 Hungarians who fled the country have accepted the invitation to return; 
Consideration of the Hungarian question by the United Nations was legally proper and paragraph 7 of Article 2 of the Charter does not justify objections to such consideration. A massive armed intervention by one Power on the territory of another with the avowed intention of interfering in its internal affairs must, by the Soviet Union's own definition of aggression, be a matter of international concern. 
I thank the Senate. I had not intended to talk about the other matter, but since  Senator Mulvihill  has raised it I think the Senate ought to be made aware of the fact that a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. I was sorry to hear  Senator Mulvihill  use simplistic terms to describe a major problem facing trade unions in Australia. The problem arises from the existence and operation of section 171d of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act.  Senator Mulvihill  's saying that the goodies are against the baddies, or vice versa, and then naming the goodies and the baddies, does little credit to him and certainly does little credit to the whole of the trade union movement in Australia. 
Reference was made to the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association. Let me remind the Senate that that organisation is a federation of 7 branches, and that in fact six of the 7 branches desire to see that organisation function properly. But when it attempts to hold its meetings one branch, led by  Mr Egan,  walks out of the organisation and thus frustrates the work of that organisation which has 141 258 members. I thoroughly agree with  Senator Mulvihill  when he says that matters should not have gone on for as long as they have. Court proceedings were instituted by  Mr Egan  the month after section 17 Id was inserted into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Thus far those proceedings have cost the taxpayer more than $250,000. If the Act were changed to enable a simple re-registration procedure to take place when a union found through some technicality that it was not able to function, that problem could be overcome by the use of an 18c stamp. 
I do not propose to keep the Senate by going into a long explanation about this matter. I agree with  Senator Mulvihill  when he says that it is extraordinary that so much money has been expended when the matter could have been resolved either by  Mr Egan  attending meetings and thus enabling the union to function with a quorum or by the reputed rule making bodiesthat is to say, the other branches- being able to seek registration of such rules as would enable the organisation to function in a technical fashion. Let me say to the Senate and to the people throughout Australia, including employers who might seek to take advantage of the situation, that the Queensland Branch, the Newcastle and Northern Branch, the Victorian Branch, the Tasmanian Branch, the South Australian Branch and the Western Australian Branch of the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association are functioning effectively in the industrial interests of their members. Let no one think that just because of a technicality they can take advantage of any of the members of the organisation. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I preface it by saying that I do not question the right of demonstrators; my question relates to the hypocrisy of the Government in extending a welcome to Lee Kuan Yew with one hand and with the other giving money to organisations which use these funds to promote demonstrations. Is the Minister aware of the reported statement by Lee Kuan Yew in the  Age  of 14 October that Australia was being used as a recruiting ground for the communist cause in South East Asia and that that program was being carried out in Australia by a united front organisation? Is he aware that Lee Kuan Yew said that the recruitment in Australia was done mainly by a central group, primarily Malaysian? Is the Minister aware of the publicly reported fact that one of the organisations behind the current demonstration is the Malaysian Union of Students in Australia which is heavily influenced by Australian Union of Student operators? Will the Minister confirm that that organisationMUSA is funded by the Commonwealth Government and that the funding is specifically for the purpose of holding an annual conference? Is the Minister aware that the annual conference of that organisation was held in May of this year at Minto, New South Wales, the venue of the Communist Party training course for many years? Is the Minister also aware that at that conference not only were policy decisions made against the Association of South East Asian Nations and for the Palestine Liberation Organisation, but also that discussions were held at public expense, concerning demonstrations against leaders of governments in South East Asia? Has the Prime Minister explained these inconsistencies to Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew? When will the Government explain the inconsistencies to the people of Australia? 
Does the Minister for Social Security recall that in May of this year I asked her a question concerning the  Aged Persons Housing Survey,  volume 1, which showed that the State with the highest percentage of aged people in unsatisfactory housing was Tasmania? Does she recall that she acknowledged the existence of the problem and said that it was a matter which should have urgent attention? Has the Minister seen volume 2 of the survey results released recently, which confirmed the earlier findings and which also show that in Hobart 21 per cent of aged people lived in accommodation which was beyond repair or which was unsatisfactory, compared with a capital city average of 9 per cent; that the aged in Tasmania had the worst roofs, gutters and downpipes and the worst exterior walls and cladding; that the old people in Hobart had the worst plumbing and shared with Adelaide the distinction of having the worst toilets; and furthermore that Tasmania, especially outside Hobart, had the worst fire risk? I ask the Minister, as I asked in May, to examine whether some form of urgent and immediate assistance might be given to those elderly Tasmanians whose living conditions are well below standard. 
-I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency- 
The urgent and immediate need for Governments to act to preserve the human and economic investment- built up over generations- in Queenstown and adjacent areas of Tasmania's West Coast, all of which is now threatened by the severe curtailment of the Mount Lyell copper mine operations, the retrenchment of over 400 workers and the consequent dislocation of their families. 
I would like the Senate to know that Queenstown faces a crisis. The cut of 40 per cent in the work force at the Mount Lyell mine is of great concern to Queenstown and the adjacent areas. Queenstown and Gormanston in Tasmania, with a combined population of 5500 people, are virtually solely dependent on the existence of the Mount Lyell mine. From speaking to the people of Queenstown on Thursday and Friday of last week I know that the announcement of the cutbacks has caused a crisis which is causing heartache and havoc in the area. It will cause more problems further up the line. 
This is my first urgency motion in the Senate. I realise that urgency motions take precedence over Government Business; so it is not my intention, since I want the Government to act and to act urgently, to speak for very long in this debate or to draw out the debate. I have taken the unusual step of moving an urgency motion because I believe that action is urgently required to overcome the specific problem and crisis which the 
Queenstown, Gormanston and Zeehan areas will face as a result of the cutbacks. We are not talking of a mining township just recently established; we are talking about a well settled area, settled since the latter pan of last century. I will distribute pictures of Queenstown to honourable senators from other States so that they can see, as my colleagues from Tasmania know, that Queenstown and the surrounding areas are well settled and beautiful areas. 
By virtue of hard work the people in the area, the pioneers of the area, built the Mount Lyell mine into what was described recently by Kerry Pink of the  Advocate  as 'the doyen of west coast mines and amongst the great vererans of the Australian mining industry'. Not only did the workers contribute with their sweat and labour to creating a mine of this status but also the company poured millions of dollars into development of the mine. The new company, Consolidated Gold Fields Australia Ltd which took over the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd in 1 964, has spent many millions of dollars developing the mine. In late 1960 the company began a $50m program to develop new underground mines. The mines that have been worked until now are the Prince Lyell, the Lyell Tharsis, the Crown Three, the Twelve West, the Cape Horn, and the 'A' Lens. 
To put the situation into perspective, last year the mine produced 2 215 412 tonnes of ore for the recovery of 83 254 tonnes of copper concentrate. Most of that went in exports- exports to Japan were 71 270 tonnes- and 19 601 tonnes went into local consumption through Port Kembla. Last year Mount Lyell also produced 102 135 tonnes of pyrite concentrate for Northwest Acid Pty Ltd. The mine is not short of ore reserves, which are currently proved at more than 27 million tonnes assaying at 1.46 per cent copper. By far the biggest ore body- more than 24 million tonnes- is in the Prince Lyell mine. So, here we have mineral reserves which are able to be extracted if action is taken urgently. The people are there, the community is there and the social and economic infrastructure is there. All that is required is some urgent action by governments to give a breathing space to the operation so that when the good times of higher copper prices come or when sterling improves, not only Queenstown and Tasmania, but also the whole of Australia will reap the benefit. 
Against this backdrop, the announcement that was made to the men last Thursday, 4 November, came as a shock. People will say: They saw it coming'. A number of people thought that something had to be done, but the magnitude of the cuts- 40 per cent of the work force- was not envisaged. The company said in a statement to the employees, which was phoned through to my office by the secretary of the Australian Workers Union on Thursday morning: 
Drastic steps are required to safeguard the future of Queenstown and operations at the Mount Lyell company. It has been decided that production will be reduced significantly with an even more significant reduction in operating costs . . . North Lyell Mines will be closed in the course of the next few months and early in the New Year the mill will reduce to a 5-day working week. At the same time the overhaul and some other sections of the West Lyell Workshops will be transferred to the main workshop area and the West Lyell Workshops closed. Other economies will be effected through closure of the sawmill, Apprentice Training Centre - 
Which subsequently the State Government has decided to continue-  single men's and single staff quarters, and a general reduction in total manning in line with the reduced scale of operations. In total some 400 staff and award employees will be retrenched, leaving an operating establishment of approximately 600 persons. 
It is a very savage blow indeed. But need we accept it? The mining company consistently over almost the last 2 years has brought to the attention of the Government the problems that it expected to arise. I will enumerate to the Senate the approaches that have been made so that it is a matter of record. At the end of January 1975  Dr J.  F. Cairns and other then Government members visited Queenstown and had discussions with company officials. On 11 March 1975 a letter was sent to  Mr Ron  Davies, M.H.R.- which he subsequently forwarded to the Treasurer- outlining the company's problems as discussed with  Dr Cairns.  It instanced low copper prices, the high cost of production and the heavy tax payments as a result of the removal of concessions by the Government. During 1975 the company prepared a comprehensive submission for the Industries Assistance Commission, and I will deal with those submissions and the results of the IAC inquiry in a moment. 
On 12 December 1975, which was the day before the election of the Fraser Government,  Sir Brian  Massy-Greene, who is  chairman  of the company, visited the Department of Minerals and Energy. The acting Secretary of that Department,  Mr Townsend,  suggested that the company should await the result of the IAC inquiry before taking further action. On 15 December 1975, the  chairman  of the company wrote to  Mr J.  Scully, the Secretary of the Department of Minerals and Energy, outlining factors responsible for the financial difficulties- the need for capital to complete No. 1 shaft complex to keep the mine operating; lower copper prices, actuals and forecasts; and inflation and its effects on costs. He also pointed out the effect of mine closure on Queensland and elsewhere, including Gormanston and Zeehan, and on the Emu Bay railway, the North- West Acid Pty Ltd and the ER and S refinery at Port Kembla which refines the copper. On 19 December 1975 the  chairman  of the company and  Mr J.  P. Landrigan, met the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  who was advised that the mine could close in the absence of government assistance. Cabinet considered these submissions during January and February and in February announced that no assistance would be forthcoming. 
I am informed by the company that in April 1976 the State Opposition Leader,  Mr Max  Bingham, wrote to  Mr Anthony  suggesting that he should visit Queenstown.  Mr Anthony  subsequently declined the invitation on 4 May 1976. During April and May 1976 the company pressed the Federal Government for time to pay $1.3m income tax which became payable on 30 April 1976 as a result of the withdrawal of taxation concessions by the Whitlam Government. Despite representations on behalf of the company by the Premier of Tasmania, the  Hon.  W. A. Neilson, to the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, the Commissioner of Taxation was not authorised to remit payment beyond 30 June 1976. The company and the workers have kept the Premier,  Mr Neilson,  fully informed of the state of affairs at Mount Lyell. The Premier and members of his Cabinet, as well as members of the Opposition, have visited Queenstown on a number of occasions during the last 12 months. Then on 3 November 1 976 the  chairman  of the company,  Sir Brian  Massy-Greene, visited  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Nixon  to inform them of the proposed retrenchments. 
I mentioned that the company had made submissions to the Industries Assistance Commission. The Commission forwarded its report to the Special Minister of State on 14 November 1975. It had been commissioned to make a report in accordance with a reference made on 17 September 1975 under section 23 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act. The submission of the company is summarised in appendix 6 of the report. I do not propose to go into it because all honourable senators have received copies of the report, but I wish to refer to a couple of matters that were mentioned in the report. On page 10 the report states: 
The mines of witnesses with higher costs are remote from other centres of either mining or industrial activity. As a result, any downturn in mining activities at those locations will have much more significant implications Tor other businesses located nearby than would be the case were other major industries also located at the towns involved. 
Later the report states: 
For Mount Lyell the effect on employment and business activity at the associated townships of Queenstown and Gormanston would probably be more dramatic as there is virtually no alternative industrial employment in the area. 
This is the reason that I have raised this matter of urgency. Because of the effect that closure of the Mount Lyell mine will have on the small communities of Queenstown and Gormanston, I believe that there is a particular case to be made out for Mount Lyell. When I first came into the Senate I was advised that the Senate was a House designed not only to uphold the rights of the States but also to protect smaller communities and the rights of minorities. I think we all are aware of the situation regarding the small communities of Queenstown and Gormanston. The people in those communities have contributed by their hard work and labour over many years. There are workers with the company whose fathers worked with the company and whose fathers before them worked with the company. They go back to 4 generations. We see that the axe has fallen and some of these workers will need to uproot their families and move out of the area in which they have lived for many years. 
What is the answer? I believe the answer is that urgent action should be taken to give a breathing space. The Industries Assistance Commission recommended that the Government should offer to guarantee trading bank or other commercial borrowings arranged for this purpose, that is, for the purpose of giving a breathing space. The Commission also recommended that the guarantee should apply to both principle and interest. Anyone looking at that knows that it is completely inadequate. The Commission, as it stated, sought to devise a means which would make fewer claims on public funds than a subsidy but which would afford the operators of mines the opportunity of remaining in production if they consider that they have a viable future in the industry in the long term. Certainly the company and people with a bit of common sense know that the Industries Assistance Commission recommendation on its own will not save the situation as far as Mount Lyell is concerned. The result of the cutback will be that the mine instead of producing 22 000 tonnes of copper per annum will be reduced to producing 1 5 000 tonnes of copper per annum. 
The reason for the difficult position facing the mine is mainly that the price of copper has fallen to below $1,000 a tonne. It has risen to approximately $2,000 per tonne in the last 10 years. The price has fluctuated severely in that time, but at the present moment it is below the cost of extracting and producing a tonne of copper. So we have a situation in which production will be reduced from 22 000 tonnes to 15 000 tonnes of copper. 
I suggest that the Government should implement a program to buy the difference between the 22 000 tonnes currently produced and the 1 5 000 tonnes that is projected to be produced per year, and that it stockpile the copper concentrates at Burnie. The only alternative is to relocate and readjust the 400 workers, their families and their dependants somewhere else in Tasmania or elsewhere. Because of the employment situation in Tasmania many of those workers just will not get a job. The latest figures on unemployment which were released last week by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  snowed that for every job vacancy in Tasmania there are 10 job seekers. The position is that the workers who are bound to go from Mount Lyell will find it very difficult to get a job and the Government will have to sustain them and their families by paying the unemployment benefit and adjustment assistance. The Government will not receive the income tax it receives from the workers at the present time. The municipalities will not receive the rates that are paid at present. In short, the workers and their families, instead of being strong contributors to the economy, will become a burden on the economy. 
I have been doing some analysis of the figures in respect of these matters. I have some pages of figures and am having them checked at the present time. Therefore I am not in a position to table them in the Senate. On a rough cost benefit analysis my proposal for the Government to buy the difference between the tonnage that was produced last year and the tonnage produced this year, thus saving the jobs of the 400 workers is far preferable than paying the costs of sustaining the workers who will be put out of work. Of course the copper would be the property of the Government. The Government would not be giving a grant to the company. The Government would own the copper. It could sell the copper on the international market whenever the price goes up. Some people might say that is a long wait but let me quote what  Sir Brian  Massey-Greene said in an interview with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. He was asked: 
You say in your projections you do see a substantial price increase in copper at least in the long term. 
The answer was: 
Yes, we do. 
He was also asked: 
What sort of increase do you see? 
The answer was: 
We would expect that the 1978-79 price of copper would be somewhere in the bracket, expressed in terms of Australian dollars, between $ 1 ,700 and $ 1 ,800 a tonne. 
The Government could buy the copper from the company now at the cost to the company of producing and the maximum the Government would have to pay would be in the vicinity of about $1,500 a tonne. If the Government stockpiles the copper until 1978-79 it will make a profit and it will keep people in jobs. In order to keep up production the company would have to continue with its development plans. That is where the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission could come in- that is to say, the recommendations relating to the provision of guarantees for borrowings arranged for the purposes of development. On page 1 5 of the IAC report it does say: 
An administrative problem associated with the guarantee proposal will be to decide what items of expenditure and revenue should be included in calculation of a cash breakeven position. For example, if a producer wished to include essential development work - 
I emphasise the words 'esential development work'- in his cash costs there would seem to be no reason to object, but a different view might be taken of a major new capital investment. 
We are talking about essential development work. As recommended by the IAC there would be a guarantee on which the company could fall back for essential development work to keep up its production which is required to maintain its workers in employment. 
I have taken this opportunity to move an urgency motion for the first time. I believe there is a way out of this problem. I hope that the discussions which will take place today will prove that urgent action is needed and that it will be taken. I do not believe that a Senate select committee as was foreshadowed by one honourable senator today will solve the problem. I suppose the most sanguine of people would not expect to have a report from a Senate committee within a period of 6 months and in that time the people who will have been given notice of termination of their employment will have gone down the road, will have been dislocated and dispersedwhere to, we do not know. Of the number of people to go it is interesting to see that a large number are technical and skilled workers. These are the people who, once they go from the mining area, will be hard to get back into this area. The Government should recognise it costs a lot of money to train such people. This also is an investment which I believe should be preserved. It is one of the investments that I mentioned in the terms of the urgency motion, which I commend to the Senate for support. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his several capacities. Firstly, I ask him in his capacity as Minister for Administrative Services and therefore responsible for the servicing of the needs of royal commissions whether it is the intention of the Government to release the report or reports of the Royal Commission into the Security and Intelligence Services conducted by  Mr Justice  Hope. If so, when? Secondly, I ask him in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he has seen the report based on the findings of the Chief Ombudsman of New Zealand,  Sir Guy  Powles, in today's  Canberra Times  that 'it could be reasonably assumed that there are up to 36 'official' Soviet intelligence operatives in Australia plus of course a number of operatives not attached to the official structure and an even larger number of agents in left-wing organisations, emigre groups and the like'. What is the Minister's comment on this claim? Furthermore, is he able to confirm or deny another item in the newspaper report that a former Pravda correspondent in Canberra,  Mr Yuri  Yasnev, had been publicly cited as a KGB contact man with an Irish Republican Army terrorist group in Dublin? 
-I seek leave to make a brief statement. 
I thank the Senate. I refer to a statement that I made yesterday about Senate committees. I referred to the notice of motion which was moved yesterday by  Senator Rae.  I asked what was the use of establishing a Senate committee when probably the earliest that it would report back would be in 6 months. I did not know at that time that  Senator Rae  intended to move a further motion which would contain a requirement that the committee report back by 9 December. I support the formation of the committee. I agree with  Senator Rae's  statement that it should be free from politicking. I notice that an Independent is to be appointed. I certainly will be nominating. 
I have a good show of winning. I concur with  Senator Devitt's  statement. Some of these men are due to be dismissed on 14 December. It would be very wise for the company to have regard to the terms of reference of the Senate committee. I think it should withdraw the dismissal notices, pending the report of the Senate committee. The test will be whether the Government acts on the committee's findings. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I am sorry. I thought that you had finished. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I adjudicated, but you did not respond. I call  Senator Mulvihill. 
-I did not have the opportunity at the end of the second reading stage of the debate to rise on a point of explanation, as I was invited to do by  Mr President,  in respect of  Senator O  'Byrne's comments because I had to leave the chamber on other pressing business relating to the Committee on the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Ltd. So I am not aware of what was said in the ultimate. I have heard that there is a father of the House. Frankly it just amazes me how long it takes some people to grow up. 
I do not know what was said after I left the chamber. 
I have sought some evidence of the authenticity of the document. I feel that  Hansard  should not have imposed upon it the incorporation of documents the authenticity of which is not known by honourable senators before they agree to their incorporation. If  Senator Mulvihill  will say who is the author and will verify the authenticity of the document then, of course, I would agree to its incorporation, provided that the document is available to me as the next  speaker  in the debate. That seems to be eminently fair. 
The Senate is dealing with an amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It seeks to do 3 things. Firstly, it seeks to restore to unions an opportunity to choose a collegiate electoral system or a federalist electoral system which was taken away from them by the previous Government by way of an amendment moved in the House of Representatives by  Mr Clyde  Cameron without any consultation whatsoever with the trade union movement. Secondly, we are dealing with an amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which proposes to alter the definition of 'Office' as has been requested by some unions- certainly not the unions with which I am associated- particularly those in industries which are seasonal in nature and in which organisers or collectors have to be appointed from time to time, depending on the seasonal basis, and in which those appointments then have to be terminated from time to time. Thirdly, we are dealing with a proposal to amend section 17 Id of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to provide that the Australian 
Industrial Court, when considering reconstituting organisations which have been found to be non-functioning through some technicality or other, shall have regard for the traditions of the organisations and shall not substantially alter against the wishes of the rank and file of those organisations their structure which has been determined over many years. 
It is quite obvious that some very thoughtful contributions have been made to the debate. On the other hand, there have been contributions which only illustrate the ignorance of some people about the whole of the conciliation and arbitration system but more particularly about the day to day problems which concern organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I am not totally happy at all with the amendments that come before the Senate today. I believe that what the Government should have done was to take out the knife and cut out from the Act those sections which were inserted in 1973 in respect of electoral systems and methods of self-government of unions. They should have been completely taken out of the Act because the amendments in 1973 were introduced into the Parliament by a Government which did not consult whatsoever with any of the peak councils about their introduction. 
It is said: 'That is not right'. May I say that I was on the executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and we criticised the fact that the Government at that time refused to consult with the union movement in respect of the amendments. At an executive meeting in May 1974 we went further and condemned  Mr Clyde  Cameron for not consulting with the trade union movement on certain amendments to section 133 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. When I said by interjection to  Senator Sibraa  yesterday that in 1973 the Government did not consult, the statement was made by  Senator Gietzelt:  'Well, it was Labor Party policy*. Was it Labor Party policy to deny to unions their right to determine the method of self government most suited to their own traditions, preference, geographical and industrial coverage and administrative convenience? What right did the Government in 1973 have to deny to the trade union movement its fundamental right to choose the method of self government that was best suited to it? It was said it is ALP policy. Determined by whom? Determined by the Federal Conference of the ALP, all the members of which were elected by a collegiate voting system. 
It is. The Federal Conference of the ALP is elected under a multitiered collegiate voting system. Here is that conference trying to impose its view on the trade union movement without any consultation with it whatsoever and getting what it deserves- a condemnation by the trade union movement as a whole. That was the situation in 1973. The Cameron amendments - 
The greatest Minister, says  Senator Mulvihill.  That is not what your leader, Gough Whitlam, thought of him when he dismissed him from that position and put somebody else who had a bit of guts and who knew what the situation was-  Senator James  McClelland- in his place. Things were going all right when  Senator James  McClelland was the Minister for Labor only for the fact- and I take issue with honourable senators on the other side-that the Senate denied Supply and forced the Government to an election. I am not criticising  Sir John  Kerr because he had no option once that deed was done, but I do question the deed itself. 
It was said the amendments were introduced by Clyde Cameron. Why? In order to promote democracy in the unions. Let us hear what this great promoter of democracy in unions has to say about the rank and file. Let me quote from  Hansard  of 24 August 1976 at page 465 which records the discussion which took place in the House of Representatives on political strikes and in particular on the question of the Medibank strike.  Mr Clyde  Cameron had this to say: 
Another great weakness - 
That is of, the Medibank strikewas the action of some union officials in allowing the membership - 
Note the words 'in allowing'- to defy the ACTU call-out, by having meetings of the rank and file to decide whether the rank and file would respond to a national call-out by the ACTU. 
What a weakness, to allow meetings of the rank and file! How dare those trade union officials allow meetings of the rank and file! Here is the man who poses as a democrat. He went on to say: 
I distinguish between an ordinary industrial issue relating to wages or working conditions and a peak call for united action at a national level to remedy an industrial grievance caused by the political action of professional politicians. 
He went on to say: 
The officer-class - officer-class, mind you- of the trade union movement would have to give the orders and the rank and file would have to obey them. 
Obey! Here is this democrat who introduced this legislation in the House in 1973. He repeated himself. It was not a slip of the tongue. He repeated himself at page 467 where he said: 
In the latter case, - that is a call for a national political strikeit becomes a central requirement to success that those in the officer-class give the orders and those in the rank and file loyally abide by those orders. 
Now we see democracy. Now we talk about democracy. Under the guise of democracy the amendments to the Act were moved by  Mr Clyde  Cameron in 1973. But let us analyse whether or not one system or the other gives true democracy. Let me put this to the Senate as a whole: Does it deny the proposition that registered industrial organisations- trade unions- have the right to choose the methods of self government most suited to their own traditions, preference, geographical and industrial coverage and administrative finance? Do honourable senators deny that proposition? There is silence. Nobody denies that proposition because they cannot deny that proposition. We have a situation in which the Government at least is trying to restore some choice to the trade unions in respect of their method of self government which we are talking about at this present point of time. Certainly the direct system of voting works quite well in a number of organisations particularly those which are industry in character and have only one award. It is simple. On the other hand, the federalist system of voting or the collegiate system of voting may be more satisfactory in an organisation, for example, like the Transport Workers Union which has a collegiate system. It is an old well respected organisation which has a multiplicity of awards in a multiplicity of industries. Cannot honourable senators get it into their heads that this is a system which gives a more democratic control of that particular union? If the federal secretary of that organisation had to use a direct system right throughout Australia he would be doing nothing else but politicking right around Australia instead of looking after the multiplicity of awards that are his to look after. 
No, not at all. 
Qh, no. If that is what you want to call Ted Harris, then do so. But I do not think he would appreciate it and I do not think others who know his ability in respect of Federal awards - 
I know that he is not on my side. We have fought for years. But I do not deny that he has a great deal of ability in respect of Federal award matters. 
I come to the question whether one system or the other is more democratic. That has very little to do with the electoral system that is chosen. By that I mean that that is not the sole question that is at stake. The question that is at stake is whether the organisation is properly balanced, whether certain industries in the organisation are represented at the Federal level or whether certain States of the organisation are represented at the Federal level. Let me take an organisation which has a number of classifications of workers as members. For argument's sake, let me look at the Building Workers Industrial Union, as it was. Traditionally, amongst its members it had carpenters, assistants, brickies and a number of other classifications. Traditionally, the arrangement previously had been that the union made sure that some of those classifications were represented at the officer level. What is wrong with that? But under the direct system of voting the predominance of carpenters would outweigh the rest of the trades. 
It does now, because it has changed. It has had to change and it will have to change as a result of the previous Cameron legislation on a State basis because in respect of the State basis there were also a collegiate electoral system. There are other unions in the same sort of category, which have different classifications of workers as members. Are we going to force it upon the minorities of the different classifications that they will not have even an ice cream's chance in Hell of getting an officer position? Certainly we should not do that, but that was done in 1 973. 
What about the States? Many unions over a long period of time have worked out their organisation, making sure that the States have adequate representation at officer level. It was in respect of this that I made a comment to  Senator Ryan  when she was saying that that is all part of the structure of the organisation. Sure, unions have structures in which the State branches elect delegates to the Federal council, Federal committee of management or Federal executive, whatever it is called under the rules. But we are talking about representation at the officer level. Now I ask: How would the smaller States get on? 
Do not forget that as a Senate we are acting here as protectors of the smaller States. Those honourable senators from the smaller States should not forget this either, because they will be reminded later that if they deny the proposal that is before them they in fact are saying that might is right and that the numbers in the populous States of New South Wales and Victoria will settle the question once and for all. 
I turn to the question of control of organisations by their membership. I said before that I am not completely happy with this amendment because I believe that the Government should have taken out the knife and extracted the Cameron amendments which were put in without consultation with the trade union movement. One might ask: How is democracy to be upheld in the trade union movement in those circumstances? Apparently members of the Opposition, or some of them, have never heard of the Regulations made under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Conciliation and Arbitration Act has Regulations. Regulation 115 governs section 132 of the Act, sub-section (2) of which states: 
The conditions to be complied with by associations so applying for registration and by organisations shall be as prescribed. 
What are some of these prescriptions? Regulation 11 5 states: 
The following conditions are prescribed conditions to be complied with by an association applying for registration, namely: 
the removal of members of the committees and of officers; 
the control of committees of the association and its branches by the members of the association and the members of the branches respectively. 
There we have it. The Act and the Regulations require that committees of associations, that is unions and branches, must be subject to control by the membership of the organisation. Who is going to set himself up as the judge as to what constitutes control? Is Clyde Cameron going to set himself up, for a political reason, to say what constitutes control? No. Over the years the Industrial Court has determined this issue. There is a bank of case law on this very matter, where the collegiate or federalist system has been determined by the court as satisfying the requirement of membership control over the union and over its branches. I argue that the collegiate system in many unions gives more effective rank and file control over the officers. I think of the LiberalNational Country Party policy which states that the coalition was for greater effective control by the rank and file over the unions and their officers. I put the proposition that in many organisations the collegiate system gives more effective rank and file control over the national officers than does the direct ballot system, in that the national officers are accountable to representatives directly elected by the rank and file members who are very well aware of the real record of those officials and aware of their abilities. This system also constitutes the accountability situation, where those officers must account to the elected representatives of the membership. 
Another part of the Regulations requires that organisations should have provision for the removal of members of the committee and of officers. That is fair enough. Most unions, since Federation almost, had such rules. We called them recall rules. But what did this great democrat of a Minister in the previous Government do to that principle of democracy? He inserted a provision in section 133 (1) (f) which in effect denied to them and the rank and file their right of recall over officers and denied to committees of management their right of recall over officers. I shall read the relevant section to honourable senators. It states: 
The rules of an organisation shall not provide for the dismissal from office of a person elected to an office within the association or organisation unless he has been found guilty, in accordance with the rules of the association or organisation, of misappropriation of the funds of the association or organisation, a substantial breach of the rules of the association or organisation, or gross misbehaviour, or gross neglect of duty, or has ceased, according to the rules of the association or organisation, to be eligible to hold the office. 
Yes, that is the Cameron amendment. What it effectively does is to entrench union officials in their positions and put them in a cocoon so that the membership has very little chance of recall over them. Here is the action of this person who was quite determined to get, according to his words, democracy back into the trade union movement. It is his sort of democracy and the sort of democracy of his political friends that he is seeking; not the democracy that the trade union movement has known and has fought for over the years. What right has this Parliament to impose upon the trade union movement a method of self-government which is contrary to the traditions of the organisation, to its industrial coverage and to its administrative convenience, when those organisations must have rules that uphold the democratic control of their officers and their committees by the membership as determined and established by court precedent over many years? 
I refer briefly to some of the things that were said in the debate. I am sure they were said through ignorance rather than through maliciousness. I am concerned to hear attacks on any trade union official irrespective of who that trade union official might be, unless those attacks are made in the right place where that official can answer for himself. Furthermore, such officials have a standard which they have established over many years. Yesterday  Senator Sibraa  made great play in suggesting that the amendments were part and parcel of an arm twisting exercise by certain people, including  Mr Maynes,  on the Government. That is absolute nonsense. He went on to say that the present Government did not realise that the people who were really opposed to secret postal ballots were people such as Jack Maynes. That is a terrible statement to make about an official of an organisation who stood against the communists in that organisation in the late 1940s and early 1950s on the basis of secret postal ballots. An honourable senator is trying to interject but I do not know what he was trying to say. 
If we talk about secret postal ballots we must ask who was opposed to secret ballots. I remind honourable senators that it was the Chifley Government that put the first provisions in the statutes for court controlled ballots for the trade union movement. It was the spirit of the Chifley Government in ensuring that there were fair and clean elections in trade union ballots. I commend that. Those points were put forward by the Maynes group and others at that particular time. They were vigorously opposed by the previous Minister for Labor,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, at that time. Do honourable senators want me to read what he said at the Australian Labor Party Federal Conference, because I will do so?  Mr Cameron  vigorously opposed court controlled ballots at the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party. 

 Senator Sibraa launched into an attack on  Mr Maynes  and quoted the branch secretary of the Central and Southern Queensland Branch,  Mr John  Forrester. Apparently they have been the words of  Mr Forrester  and others that have been coming out of the mouths of some people in another place. I wonder whether they know and whether the Senate knows what is the real reason for this big smear campaign. Why would  Mr Forrester  be interested in attacking his Federal President? Well, of course, the Federal  President  of that organisation has had serious complaints from rank and file members and officers of the Central and Southern Queensland Branch about the financial mismanagement of that branch. The Federal  President  of the organisation has been aware of this since last year. As Federal  President  he has the responsibility to see that members in central and southern Queensland are protected. Thousands of dollars of Central and Southern Queensland Branch members' funds have been misspent by  Mr Forrester  outside the State. Rather than doing industrial work he has been outside the State politicking and has allowed the finances of the branch to fall down. It is common knowledge that there have now been startling disclosures that John Forrester tried to draw over $60,000 in union funds in cash from 3 societies over the last couple of months. He succeeded in getting $49,000 in cash and the balance in bank cheques. This was done illegally and behind the backs of the union trustees appointed under the rules and under the State Industrial Act. When the trustees were tipped off that he was raiding the accounts, they sought knowledge of where the funds were. John Forrester was at a Gold Coast function at the time and the trustees could not ascertain where the funds were, even though John Forrester knew they were searching for them. When the balloon went up, the funds were later paid into the union's bank account. However, further inquiries disclosed that a safe deposit box had been hired by  Mr Forrester  and that his intention was to put the money into the safe deposit box out of the control of the trustees. The money had been placed with the society in a way in which John Forrester could withdraw funds on his sole signature and, in fact, he did withdraw them on his sole signature. 
Here we have a situation where the Opposition is using John Forrester as an argument against this legislation. As far as I can see, it is the only argument that has been used by the Opposition because we have not heard any logical arguments against the legislation. One is entitled to ask: Why is all the smear going around? Here is the answer. A man has got the responsibility, as federal  president,  to protect the funds of that organisation. It is known that the organisation to which I have referred, as a result of gross mismanagement of its funds, has had to go into an overdraft situation. The central and southern Queensland branch of that union will not be able to pay its debts as at 31 January 1977. Honourable senators should not go into that situation too deeply because they might get embroiled in something very big. 
I should like to examine some of the other arguments that have been put forward in this debate. Some honourable senators have said: 'This Bill does not go to the central issues'. Certainly, the Bill does not go completely to the central issues but it will provide to the trade union movement some choice on the best method of operation. It was said by one of the Opposition senators that it does not deal with the real problems. One honourable senator said: 'Amalgamation will fix it all up'. That is the real issue- amalgamations. We have heard  Mr Wran,  who has not been a member of a union in his life as far as I know, and Donny Dunstan, coming out and supporting this prospect. 
A member of the cooks union, is he? I do not know. I imagine a demarcation dispute would be involved there. 
Actors Equity? Oh well, that figures. What is the situation? We have the newspaper moguls latching on to this as being the be all and end all of our problems. I should like to refer to an article which appeared in the  Australian.  What does it say about  Mr Wran's  statement? It states: 
The industrial landscape wears a perennially dark horizon: you would need a pocket computer and a thick file of newspaper clippings to work out how many days of this year the men in the wool stores actually have been working, or how many times the normal conduct of Australian society has been threatened by wildcats in the oil industry. 
What would amalgamations do about that? Absolutely nothing. The crux of the issue is the recognition by the rank and file workers and their officials of that. The principles of the trade union movement require that if one union is going to take industrial action that will affect the jobs of somebody else it has a responsibility to consult the unionists affected. That is done through the central trade union organisation. It is done by notifying disputes in accordance with the rules of the trade union movement and not by going outside the trade union movement to build amalgamated bodies so that they can use their unrestricted power on their own without regard to anybody else. That is what it is all about. People have asked what we think about unions, what we think about the  President  of the ACTU or the  president  of some other organisation. When determining what we think about the  president  of any organisation the test we must apply is whether he upholds the rules of the organisation and not whether he is a good petrol reseller, whether he is good on television or anything else. That is the basis of the test we apply. My sincere hope is that the  President  of the ACTU has at last woken up that this will be the test. 
I believe the individual trade unions should contribute to the success of this principle by notifying disputes and working within the rules of the trade union movement. Problems cannot be solved by amalgamation. All that Wran is about, all that Dunstan is about, all that the  Australian  is about and all that the shipowners are about is amalgamation on the waterfront. Their attitude is: All unions on the waterfront into the Waterside Workers Federation. That was indicated in the submissions made by the Waterside Workers Federation and the overseas shipowners to the stevedoring industry inquiry. What did they say? They went hand in glove and said: 'Yes, one of the ways to overcome the problems of the waterfront is to have amalgamation'. What rot! How many demarcation disputes have taken place on the waterfront itself? 

 - Senator Cavanagh is showing his ignorance. I am talking about demarcation disputes on the waterfront itself. How many demarcation disputes have taken place between the Waterside Workers Federation, the Miscellaneous Workers Union, the Foremen Stevedores Union, the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and the Electrical Trades Union on the waterfront? Very few demarcation disputes have taken place indeed. This is what we are talking about. 

 - Senator Georges is talking about the Storemen and Packers Union and the Transport Workers Union. I would like to know whether  Senator Georges  agrees that the members of the Waterside Workers Federation should take over the jobs of the members of the Storemen and Packers Union or the Transport Workers Union in carting goods to and from the wharf. All I can say is that the economy of this country had better look out if the stevedoring industry is handed over to the monopoly power of one union and the conglomerate monopoly power of overseas shipowners. There will be plenty of sweetheart agreements in those circumstances. It is easy to see what the result would be. These simplistic attitudes are absolutely crazy. 
I am asked what I think about amalgamations. I will tell the Senate. All honourable senators, particularly those Labor senators from my State, will realise that what I am saying in respect of amalgamations is that I do not believe that the Seamen's Union should control all those persons who are operating in harbours and so forth. If that is what amalgamation means, my union members will not want to become members of the Seamen's Union. I am Secretary of the Marine and Harbour Trust Workers Union. I say that without the unanimous vote of that organisation we would not have seen the visit of the  USS Enterprise  into that State. If the members of my Union had been members of the Seamen's Union the Government certainly would have had objection to such a visit on political grounds. We were not going to object on political grounds. We maintained a very strict industrial attitude - 
The ship was built by union labour. We were not going to see it worked by other than union labour and that was that. If Opposition senators want to talk about the amalgamation of unions it should be pointed out to them what the situation would be in the future. I turn now to the final part of the Bill which deals with section 171 (D) of the Act. It enables the bench of the Australian Industrial Court to perceive whether a union is able to function as a result of some technicality. It clothes the Court with power to reconstitute the union, without giving members of the union an opportunity to determine for themselves in an effective way what they want. I quote from  Senator Durack  's second reading speech. 
The Government is of the view that any fundamental change in the rules of an organisation should be primarily a matter for determination by the members of their authorised representatives in accordance with the rules of the organisation. 
Can one quibble with that statement? One should not quibble with it. My attitude would be that the Court should certainly be able to discern the problem and then let the union put its own house in order according to the desires of the membership. That would be true democracy, not something imposed upon the union by the Court. 
I was sidetracked when I was speaking about the entrenchment of union officials and whether  Mr Cameron  put into the legislation a provision which in effect denied to unions their right to recall officials for inefficiency or for any other legitimate reason. Prior to 1973 a union official who was aggrieved by any decision could claim in the Industrial Court that the rule under which he had been dismissed or removed from office was unreasonable, oppressive or unjust. That official had the authority to do so under section 140 of the Act. But now someone would have to shoot almost the whole branch committee of management before he can be dismissed. Then he would claim that there was not a quorum. I do not kid the Senate. That is the situation, virtually as a result of the action of that great democrat and defender of rank and file control,  Mr Cameron. 
Let us come to the question of the 1 5 per cent. I am sure  Senator Cavanagh  is waiting for me to come to that question. What is the alternative collegiate system to a 15 per cent system? The alternative is to have a collegiate system by which there is direct voting at the first stage in the States. They elect their federal councillors. Those councillors elect a federal secretary. That system is adopted by a handful of unions which are affiliated but not federated. I will give an example. A delegate from Tasmania is elected by a direct vote from that State to the federal council. He is elected federal secretary by the federal council. The federal office is in Melbourne. So he must leave Tasmania to take up his position. Under the rules, he must transfer from the Tasmanian branch to the Victorian branch of the union. He loses his position as a member of the federal council from Tasmania. He is not eligible to stand again because he is not a member of the federal council. That is the alternative to the 15 per cent rule. Anyone who knows anything about Industrial Court cases knows that this matter has been dealt with repeatedly. The position in effect is that a member from Tasmania finds it almost impossible under those circumstances to retain his position as federal secretary unless he is able to get one of the Victorian delegates on the federal council to resign so that he could be on the federal council in order to recontest his position. 
I believe that the Bill is defective because it does not say anything about the filling of casual vacancies. I think it would be wise during the 2-year period for the Government to look at this question, because I think it is an omission which ought to be rectified in that time. I am not completely happy with the Bill, because it does not go far enough. It goes some way towards providing some choice to organisations. Let people not condemn that choice. Those people in the House of Representatives who opposed these provisions have been elected by or participated in the collegiate system in their own unions. I bring to mind the honourable member for Melbourne,  Mr U.  E. Innes, who was Federal  President,  from memory, of the Electrical Trades Union of Australia. He was elected under a collegiate voting system. That union had been to the courts many times, and it had been determined that that was a proper voting system. 
The facts are that apart from unions which have compulsory voting and which impose fines on members who do not vote, such as the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia, unions with a direct system of voting have a lower rank and file return of ballot papers than unions with a collegiate voting system. Let me repeat that so it is clearly understood. There is more participation by the rank and file in unions which elect their officers by a collegiate voting system- with a direct voting system at the State level- than there is by and large in unions with the direct system of voting. I cite the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union with a 1.8 per cent return on the direct system. This .008 per cent that Carmichael and the Opposition are bandying about is poppycock. The union members in the States can have an effective choice. The union members know who is doing the right job and who is not. They are the ones who determine the issue. Some people in organisations which now have a collegiate voting system want to go to the direct system of voting. Let us analyse why. Let us take the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association. Barry Egan wants the direct system of voting, for 2 reasons. One is the membership in New South Wales. Another reason is that the turnover in that union is 60 per cent a year. Naturally he wants to have a direct voting system when 60 per cent of his members do not know what his record is. I am talking in general terms. They do not know the record of their federal secretary. Of course he can snow them. There is a turnover of 60 per cent a year. I would like to stand for office under a direct voting system on a federal basis when people did not know my real worth and my administrative ability. But if I were inefficient I would certainly fear a collegiate system under which the people who voted for me knew my true worth. They are the ones who represent directly the rank and file. Whilst there are deficiencies in the Bill, and I have referred to one in particular which I hope the Minister and the Government will consider in due course, I do not want to hold up the Bill. I support the second reading of it. 
I rise to speak very briefly about a question which I addressed to  Senator Withers  in his capacity as the Minister representing the Ministier for Foreign Affairs. On 23 September 1976 I asked him 2 questions relating to Rhodesia. The first question concerned Bishop Lamont and his trial, and the second question concerned prospective migration from Rhodesia. In respect of Bishop Lamont I sought to have the Australian Government send an observer to his trail. In response the Minister mentioned that once a decision had been made not to have diplomatic representation in a particular country it was difficult under those circumstances to send anyone to cover trials of this nature. 
I point out to the Senate that the sentence of Bishop Lamont to 10 years' gaol was a travesty of justice. It was deserving of a criminal or a traitor- and Bishop Lamont is neither. I stand in the Senate again appealing to the Government to use its good offices to achieve a purview over the appeal which I understand is being lodged by Bishop Lamont. This great Christian stood on moral principle. He made it absolutely clear that he did not condone terrorism and acts of violence but that he would not deny medical attentionthat is, freedom of the body from pain- to anyone and he would not ask them their politics or religion in order to succour a suffering human being. 
On the second question, relating to migration, I asked the Minister whether the Australian Embassy in South Africa had been directed to adopt a favourable attitude towards applicants of Rhodesian nationality for migration. I asked: 
. is it correct, as I have been informed, that the Australian Embassy is not even bothering to reply to such applications. 
The Minister's reply, which I received dated 5 November 1976, makes it clear that replies are sent to these people. The Minister's reply also contains a statement of government policy which I certainly have not seen anywhere else and which I think is important enough to be incorporated in  Hansard.  I seek leave to have the Minister's reply to me dated 5 November 1976 incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The document read as follows- 

As mentioned in my letter of 1 9 October 1 976, the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs would provide a separate answer to the aspects of the Rhodesian question which are their concern. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the  Hon.  Michael MacKellar, M.P., has supplied the following answer to your question: 
I understand the Minister for Foreign Affairs is replying about Bishop Lamont. 
At the outset I should state that the Australian Embassy in South Africa replies to all applications for settlement from former Rhodesians and persons normally resident in Rhodesia. Applications that are received must, however, be considered against the background of the sanctions contained in the resolution of 29 May 1968 of the United Nations Security Council, whereby persons ordinarily resident in Rhodesia who have furthered or encouraged the regime in Southern Rhodesia are not to be helped to enter other countries. 
Any person, therefore, who sends an application to the Embassy has his or her case considered on its merits under normal migration policy but subject to conformity with the requirements of the sanctions. Upon receipt of formal applications the Embassy in South Africa invites those who appear to be eligible to attend an interview at the Embassy when they are able to do so. Those who, at interview, are accepted or found ineligible are subsequently informed accordingly. 
On occasions personal inquiries (rather than a formal application) may be made concerning eligibility. Appropriate responses are forwarded in such cases. 
The reply dealing with the question of migration says: 
Applications that are received must, however, be considered against the background of the sanctions contained in the resolution of 29 May 1 968 of the United Nations Security Council, whereby persons ordinarily resident in Rhodesia who have furthered or encouraged the regime in Southern Rhodesia are not to be helped to enter other countries. 
There are 2 very brief things that I would like to say about that. Firstly, I do not know how that squares with the United Nations Convention on the status of refugees in respect of persons who, for example, could have a very well founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race or political opinion. But that is just a passing comment. Secondly, the all embracing nature of the words furthered or encouraged the regime' could be used to exclude most of the white population. For example, there is no doubt that some of the national service provisions in Rhodesia would have involved willing or unwilling Rhodesians in Army service. Certainly public servants could be regarded as having furthered the regime. Yet I know that there are a large number of ordinary Rhodesians with families who are gravely apprehensive of the future and who are in no way racist in character. Anyhow, who are we to make judgments in this matter? I am sorry to have delayed the Senate tonight but I simply felt that it was necessary to have this matter aired so that an adequate public debate can be engaged in. 
My question is directed to  Senator Carrick.  It refers to the Green Committee's report, one of the recommendations of which is the replacement of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board by the Broadcasting Tribunal. I ask: Is the Minister aware of widespread concern amongst a large number of parents in the community that such replacement will diminish the already inadequate surveillance over program standards, particularly insofar as they affect children? Will the Minister give an unqualified assurance that the Tribunal will not consist of representatives of the broadcasting industry, many of whom are interested only in peddling programs which at best can be described as below standard and at worst destructive so far as children are concerned? 
I rise to make the observation that I believe the Australian Labor Party does a disservice to the cause of East Timorese to allow the Left to make all the running. I say that very deliberately. I remind the Senate that on 18 May 1976 in an address on the adjournment I pointed out that there was a similarity between the action of the Indonesians in 1 962 in the West Irian grab and the actions of the Indonesians in 1975 in the East Timor grab. I also pointed out that insofar as East Timor is concerned the Left is concerned only with the opportunity which this issue presents of enlarging the coalition of the Left in Australian society. I mentioned at the time that in 1962 I supported the right of self determination of the people of West New Guinea. Indeed, as early as 1974 in the Labour Council in Tasmania I was one of those who supported the right of the East Timorese to self determination. But I make this point insofar as the previous  speaker  is concerned and the people that he represents: He can bandy words such as 'expediency', 'principles' and 'double standards' but who has the double standards? Where was he when there was a massive take-over by the Indonesian forces in 1962?  Senator Arthur  Gietzelt was the  President  of the Sutherland Shire Peace and Disarmament Committee which was supporting the views of the New South Wales Peace Committee and its publication which was very definitely supporting the take-over by the Indonesians of West Irian and East Timor. 
That is not a lie; that is fact. 
It is quite deliberate fact.  Mr President,  as I said on the previous occasion, I feel that there is a need for the Australian Government to take action to ensure that the suffering people of East Timor get some aid. I proposed at that time that every effort be made to persuade the Indonesian Government to allow International Red Cross teams to go into East Timor. Since that time, as I understand the situation, International Red Cross teams have not been permitted to go into East Timor. The Government should again make quite firm representations to the Indonesian Government to enable the International Red Cross to enter East Timor. Failing that, it is incumbent upon the Indonesian Government to ensure that their Red Cross teams spend the money they get in the interests of the East Timorese. That can be checked by the Indonesian Government allowing Australian officials to go into East Timor with the Indonesian Red Cross teams. I might be whistling in the wind in this respect, but I believe that it is incumbent upon the Government at least to remind the Indonesians that contributions have been made to relieve the suffering in 
East Timor and that the people who have made those contributions want to know to what purpose they have been made. 
I again suggest that those people within Australia who have taken a consistent attitude in respect of the take-over of West Irian and the take-over of East Timor be given the opportunity by the Indonesians to be heard. Frankly, I believe that the Indonesians, hearing people like  Senator Gietzelt  take the running, believe that there is not a genuine feeling for the East Timorese among the Australian people. They hear people like  Senator Gietzelt  with double standards in respect of 1962 and 1975 and jump to conclusions and tar everybody with the one brush. I believe that the Government has a responsibility on behalf of the Australian people, even on my behalf, again to approach the Indonesians in an attempt to have them allow the International Red Cross into East Timor. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of the decision of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association and the Australian Journalists Association in Tasmania not to participate in the current strike activity? Is he aware that the decision of the leaders of those organisations was supported by the rank and file of the organisations in Tasmania? Is he further aware of the appreciation of the people of Tasmania of the ABC's services and their preference for a high degree of local content in ABC news and current affairs programs? Is he also aware of the concern that there may be cuts in ABC staff in Tasmania which could result in news and current affairs programs coming under the control of people in Sydney and Melbourne and Tasmania thus being flooded by the miasma from the mainland? Will the Minister raise these matters of concern with the ABC so as to ensure that there is no dislocation of the work force of the ABC in Tasmania? 
Has the Minister for Education received or made a decision on a submission that was made in September to the Interim Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority by a group of Canberra teachers and parents to establish a modern traditional government primary school that was not open-plan and had a structured approach in areas such as reading, spelling, language, reasoning and communications? Without asking the Minister to pre-empt any decision that he may not have made on this matter, I ask: Would he be prepared to view favourably any similar efforts by parents and teachers in other parts of Australia? Would he be prepared to ask all the authorities and commissions under his control, such as the Curriculum Development Centre and the Schools Commission, to give such moves their full encouragement and expert assistance? 
-My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is related to an incident which occurred last night and which is reported in this morning's Melbourne  Sun.  By whom was the person concerned employed? What was the purpose of her employment? Under what conditions was she employed? What payments were made to her? Was the person a member of a union and, if so, what union? Finally, has the Minister considered the question of the establishment of standards to prevent the exploitation of womanhood in such circumstances? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It concerns the excellent report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the plight and circumstances of Vietnamese and other refugees. As we are unlikely to have any debate on immigration before this session ends, can the Minister obtain from her colleague in the other place an undertaking that the recommendations will be examined and implemented and that the Minister will have tabled in this chamber and in the House of Representatives a statement concerning the progress made in implementing the recommendations contained in the report? 
The Minister representing the Attorney-General may recall that the subject matter of an adjournment debate which occurred in the Senate was perjured evidence which was used and which constituted a crime against the trade union movement. The Minister will recall that the late  Senator Greenwood  stated that he would refer the matter to the Attorney-General for investigation to see whether a crime had been committed. Can the Minister advise what action has been taken on this matter and with what result? Will the Senate receive a report on the matter before it rises? 
I apologise in advance to the Senate for speaking on the motion for the adjournment. It is brought about because I could not raise this matter in question time this morning. The reason that I could not do so is that it concerns an article appearing in the  Canberra Times  this morning which deals with the Australian War Memorial which, of course, is subject to the jurisdiction of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  who does not read the  Canberra Times,  or other newspapers. I am forced to detain the Senate at this time so that I can read to him the statement and the article in the  Canberra Times.  It is headed 'Memorial Service on Timor Invasion' and reads: 
About 40 people gathered at the Stone of Remembrance at the Australian War Memorial yesterday for a wreathlaying ceremony to mark the first anniversary of the invasion of East Timor by Indonesia. 
The  Deputy  leader of the Federal Opposition,  Mr Uren,  laid the wreath, and the member for Fraser,  Mr Fry,  and the  President  of the A.C.T. branch of the Australian-East Timor Association,  Mr Brendan  0 'Dwyer, also attended. 

 Mr Uren said the Australian people owed an 'enormous debt' to the Timorese people who had helped Australians during World War II. 
The article was accompanied by a photograph above the caption 'the  Deputy  Leader of the Federal Opposition,  Mr Uren,  lays a wreath at the Australian War Memorial yesterday, in memory of those who fell in the Indonesian invasion of East Timor a year ago'. The photograph shows  Mr Uren  laying the wreath. It shows also  Senator Arthur  Gietzelt and  Senator Justin  O'Byrne. I am not able to identify the other people in the photograph. 
I raise this matter because it is a very serious matter. The Australian War Memorial Act provides for a board of trustees whose responsibilities are delineated under the Act. The Act establishes the functions of the board of trustees. The functions of the board are, on behalf of the Commonwealth, to manage the Memorial; to control and preserve the war relics of the Commonwealth; and to arrange, so far as the Board considers desirable, for their public display; to carry out and to assist other persons in carrying out research in connection with any war or warlike operation in which Australians have been engaged on active service. That is the reasoning behind the Australian War Memorial Act. This Act provides for the continuation of the Australian War Memorial which was first established under the Australian War Memorial Act of 1 925. The purpose behind that Act was to provide a memorial to those who fell in any war or warlike operation in which Australians have been on active service. 
That brings me to the point of the wreath laying ceremony which took place yesterday and was attended by members of the Australian Parliament. The question is raised whether members of the Australian Parliament are using for their own purposes and for their own ends the sacred War Memorial commemorating those who died on service in any war or warlike operation in which Australians have been on active service. I do not wish to reflect in any way on people who wish to commemorate events that occurred a year ago or to remember people who fell a year ago or in any other era. But I do remind the Senate that heretofore the Board of Trustees has been quite meticulous in their interpretation of the provisions of the Australian War Memorial Act and have prevented well meaning people who wanted to commemorate the dead in certain uprisings and wars from doing so. 
I refer to a request that was made in October when the Hungarian communities of Canberra and Queanbeyan wanted to lay a wreath at the War Memorial in order to commemorate the twentieth anniversary of the Hungarian uprising. They contacted the Director of the War Memorial and he refused permission, saying that the War Memorial was for the purpose of commemorating Australians who died in actions in which Australia was involved. The Hungarian community was disappointed at this ruling but they abided by it. They did hold a small commemoration ceremony on 23 October outside the precincts of the War Memorial and, as I understand it,  Senator Knight,  a  Senator for  the Australian Capital Territory was present. The War Memorial was closed and they did not wish, nor did they attempt, to lay a wreath on the stone of remembrance- that sacred stone which is preserved as the memorial to our dead. 
In the  Canberra Times  today we see that a wreath was laid by members of this Australian Parliament against the provisions of an Act to which they were party. As far as I can make out from the photograph which is taken from behind a glass- presumably a cameraman from the Press materialised without having been told about this incident- the wreath laying took place inside the Memorial and on the stone of remembrance.  Senator 0  'Byrne and  Senator Gietzelt  appear to be taking part in that ceremony. 
I do not deny the right of  Senator Gietzelt  or  Senator O  'Byrne to conduct their remembrance in any place they like. But they have no right for their own purposes to conduct it in the sacred place reserved for commemorating the Australian dead who fought for Australia. 
I believe that the Minister for Administrative Services has a duty tonight to inform the Senate of the circumstances of this wreath laying. Is there a rule for one set of people within the community and another for the pro-Fretilin supporters who happen to be in this Parliament? Did the organisers obtain permission for this ceremony from the Director of the War Memorial. 

 - Senator Cavanagh says that they did. I would like to know from the Minister whether in fact they obtained permission to lay a wreath in commemoration of those who were killed in Timor one year ago yesterday, as reported in the  Canberra Times  today. Did the organisers tell the Director that the event was to mark the first anniversary of the events that occurred in Timor last year? If the Director did give authority, in contradistinction to other people within the community who wished to commemorate those who died fighting for freedom and self-determination but who were denied the opportunity to do so, has the War Memorial changed its policy on commemorator ceremonies involving events in which no Australians were in a warlike operation? Did the organisers relate some story to the Director of the War Memorial who then gave permission to those persons mentioned in the Press report to lay a wreath? If so, what was the request and what were the circumstances surrounding the request? 
I believe this is a very important matter for the Senate to consider and in respect of which the Government, through the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  should give some explanation to the Australian Parliament. In fact, we see by the reporting in the Press in the A.C.T. that the ceremony was held to commemorate the first anniversary of the events of Fretilin versus UDT. The real intention of the people who attended the ceremony, in my view, was to get Press publicity for their own particular pro-Fretilin cause. I have said before in this Parliament and I say it again: If those expousing the pro-Fretilin cause continue on this course they will damage irretrievably the genuine cause of persons in East Timor who desire selfdetermination. If they insult those whose relatives have died in the wars defending this country, they will do damage to their particular cause. I ask: Is it their real intention to make a political commemoraton of a recent event in which, hopefully, no Australians were engaged in a war or warlike opeation as defined in the Act? I believe that these matters call for some explanation from the Minister for Administrative Services, who is sitting at the table. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It relates to the Senate select committee on the operations of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd and the fact that that committee indicated that the company could continue without retrenchments. Is the Minister aware that as yet there has been no response from the company? Is the Government aware of the critical situation that has arisen in Queenstown, where the first retrenchments take effect from next week? Can the Minister obtain or will he attempt to have the Prime Minister obtain an urgent response from the company today? Finally, if no such response is received by this afternoon, what measures are available to the Senate to ensure that the recommendations of its committee are followed? 
We have seen this morning a blatant attempted cover-up of the misuse by some members of this Parliament of the Stone of 
Remembrance at the Australian War Memorial for their own propaganda. This is a serious matter, and that is why I raised it in the Senate last night. I am not alone in my view that Stone of Remembrance was misused. A letter from  Mr D.  W. R. Scoggins, the  President  of the Australian Capital Territory Branch of the Rats of Tobruk Association, which was published in this morning's  Canberra Times,  states: 
I found it difficult to believe that, as shown on ABC-TV on Tuesday and reported in your newspaper yesterday, a group which included several prominent Federal Parliamentarians could have so misused the Stone of Remembrance at the Australian War Memorial on Tuesday. 
Ex-servicemen regard the Australian War Memorial as a memorial to Australian servicemen who fell in wars in which Australia has been involved. For commemorative purposes, the Stone of Remembrance is regarded as the focal point. To use it as a setting to commemorate incidents in which we have not, as a nation, been involved is inappropriate to say the least. 
If such misuse is taken as a precedent we can expect to see it used by any group which feels it has some cause to place before the public, thus debasing it as a memorial. Where will it end? Will the Stone of Remembrance become a platform from which political doctrine will be disseminated? Not if exservicemen can stop it! 
Rightly or wrongly, we have been involved in wars or warlike activities in the past but I have not seen any attempt on the part of those who participated in the above-mentioned event to do anything to commemorate Australian soldiers lost in these activities. 
Where were they on 1 1 November? The letter continues: 
Considering the date of the incident and the debt we owe to the U.S.A. for past help, it would have been more appropriate if a wreath had been placed there in remembrance of those lost at Pearl Harbour. 
D.W.R. SCOGGINS President 
A.C.T. Branch, Rats of Tobruk Association 
I did not have the honour, because I was not old enough, to fight in the last world war. 
I did my national service and, had I been old enough, I would have been willing to fight in any of these circumstances to defend democracy. I say to  Senator Arthur  Gietzelt that what I have been doing is trying to rid the trade union movement of the members of the pro-communist Left who sought to white-ant it during the war while other people were overseas. 
I rise today to point out that this is a cover-up. We even have tapes entering into it nowWatergate tapes, perhaps. All that we can do is try to go by the official record.  Senator Walters'  only fault was that she believed the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the other place,  Mr 
Uren, or alternatively that she believed the official record of this Parliament. The  Canberra Times  reported that the wreath laying ceremony was a memorial service in respect of the Timor invasion. It stated: 
. people gathered at the Stone of Remembrance at the Australian War Memorial yesterday for a wreath-laying ceremony to mark the first anniversary of the invasion of East Timor by Indonesia. 
Where did the  Canberra Times get  those words? 
I will tell the honourable senator. Those are the very words at the top of  Mr Uren's  statement. I read them: 
Speech by Tom Uren, M.P., Deputy Leader of the Opposition, at a wreath laying ceremony to mark the first anniversary of the Indonesian invasion of the Democratic Republic of East Timor . . . 
They are the same words as were used by the  Canberra Times.  I ask again: Where did the  Canberra Times  get those words? Obviously it got them from the heading of the prepared speech by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives,  Mr Uren.  If honourable senators were so upset about misrepresentation by the  Canberra Times,  of course there are parliamentary procedures they can adopt. Honourable senators regularly say that they have been misrepresented by the Press. Did  Senator Arthur  Gietzelt,  Mr Tom  Uren or  Senator Justin  O' Byrne stand up yesterday, before the matter was raised by me last night, and say that they were misrepresented? 
We see the real reason. We see that the original verbal request, made to the Director of the Australian War Memorial on behalf of the Australian East Timor Association, was to hold a ceremony at the Memorial to mark the invasion of East Timor. That was the original purpose. Then, of course, to get around the provisions in the Australian War Memorial Act, the request was made to lay a wreath at the Memorial 'in memory of Australian fallen in Timor in World War II'. 
Somebody said: That is right'. Opposition senators stand condemned by what they said last night.  Senator Gietzelt  said both last night and this morning that that was the purpose of the service but it was also to commemorate the persons who lost thenlives in the recent conflict in Timor. 
There is nothing wrong with having a memorial or a service in memory of those people except that the Stone of 
Remembrance is the focal point to honour the Australian war dead. That is the point at issue. No amount of talk and cover-up by the people from the Opposition side who have entered this debate can gainsay that. We have had the story that there was an embargo. An embargo? It is the first time I have heard anybody putting an embargo on a statement after the occasion. That is ridiculous. That is what has been suggested. 
That is what has been suggested. 
The record will show that  Senator Gietzelt  introduced into his comments this morning as an excuse for this particular document being distributed that it could have been a problem relating to an embargo. 
I am sorry if I misunderstood. I regret that I understood the matter incorrectly. The issue that is involved here is: Are we going to believe what we receive through the normal processes of distribution from this Parliament and are the people going to believe when they read in the  Commonwealth Record  that a speech has been made that the speech was made? This is another matter of quite a degree of significance. I am pleased that I raised this matter last night because I hope that in future the Stone of Remembrance will not be misused. I hope that by raising this matter it will give confidence to those people who objected to this misuse, including the Rats of Tobruk Association, that it will not be misused again. 
Time is late and patience is getting short. I am no better equipped than anybody else to speak on this legislation, other than that of course along with other people I am a listener to radio and a viewer of the electronic media. I am a parent and I am concerned about the matters that  Senator Melzer  so fully and with expression detailed to the Senate. One of the greatest problems that has arisen since the report on Aus.tralian broadcasting is that there has been too much emphasis on the Australian Broadcasting Commission and not enough discussion on the other aspects of broadcasting and television in the private sector of the community. The Aus.tralian Broadcasting Commission is not a sacred cow. It should not be immue from criticism. By and large it does a good job, but it falls down very severely in some departments. That is a matter of judgment, but it should not be that every time somebody mentions something about the ABC people defend the Commission blindly. It should not be subject to control by the Government, but it should be as the people's broadcasters subject to the people's represenatives in this Parliament. Naturally it should have regard to the fact that it is so subject, particularly when the Parliament is considering the Estimates. 
I asked certain questions in respect of the Estimates. I did not, I believe get satisfactory answers. I will be following that up in other ways. Too many people simply regard the ABC as a sacred cow. Unfortunately the debate on the Green report has centred on the ABC and not the matters of real importance; that is, the establishment of broadcasting within Australia that meets levels of excellence and standards that are acceptable broadly within the community. I might mention- and I take this opporunity to do thisthat not everything that comes out of Radio 2JJ or 3ZZ - 
I am coming to the private sector directly. They in my view could well get a bigger pay. Not everything that comes out of Radio 2 JJ or 3ZZ is good. I was surprised to hear  Senator Douglas  McClelland laud those particular stations without qualification. I am sure that he did this out of loyalty rather than out of the fact that he would have the information, because if anybody knew he knew when he was Minister of the problems which the ABC had. I refer simply to one aspect and that is the interim report from the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the humanitarian aspects of the Lebanon crisis. I raise this matter because I think it is important to raise it at this stage. In its report on the Middle East the Joint Committee reported to Parliament that it had received allegations concerning broadcasts on 3ZZ. Those allegations included a claim that a broadcast had favoured one faction in the Lebanese community whilst denying access to the  President  of the Victorian Chapter of the Australian-Lebanese Association. It was said that Arab language programs were offensive to the Jewish community and that there were calls on 3ZZ for demonstrations during Moshe Dayan's visit. 
The Committee reported that it was still receiving reports of dishonest agitation and that it had been unsuccessful in a request for tapes or transcripts from the ABC despite letters having been sent to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Eric  Robinson.  Senator Douglas  McClelland said, I understand, that there was no capital outlay on the technical side as far as 3ZZ was concerned. I assume that that was related to transmitters. Certainly there has been significant capital outlay on studio equipment. That radio station is run by the Victorian Branch of the ABC, and the taxpayer contributed to that station to the tune of $600,000 last year. That is what its budget was last year. The public should be able to expect some proper return from that expenditure. 
Despite its ostensible control by the ABC, 3ZZ is run by a small clique. It is run by a collective which claims that it is responsible for all policy decisions which affect the collective as a whole. All collective decisions are binding on all staff members. So much for the freedom of the reporters who work for 3ZZ. The Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs, which has been unable to obtain transcripts or tapes of radio broadcasts on 3ZZ and which wrote to the Minister on 7 October about this matter, should be interested to know a certain fact, and that fact is that the 3ZZ co-ordinator,  Mr Alex  Butler, sent an interoffice memo to 3ZZ staff requesting that an exact copy of the transcript of any criticism made by persons appearing on 3ZZ should be given to the producer before the recording was broadcast and that if such criticism was in a foreign language a translation should be presented to the producer. If the staff of 3ZZ had followed that instruction, then the Joint Committee should surely now request copies of those transcripts and the Minister,  Mr Eric  Robinson, should insist that they be supplied to the Joint Committee. We are dealing with a situation which is referred to on pages 68 to 75 of the report of the Joint Committee. We are dealing with the concern expressed by the Joint Committee about the bias of that radio station and a number of other stations. 
One of the programs broadcast by 3ZZ is called  Alternative News.  That  Alternative News  program is put together by people in the collective. What is broadcast is not necessarily the news but the views of those people. I understand that the  Alternative News  program is also broadcast on the Canberra Radio Station 2XX. It is compiled by the Congress for International Cooperation and Disarmament. 

 - Senator Button said: Oh, come on!' 
Not at all. I was on the International Labor Organisation's Committee on the role of co-operatives in the economic and social development of developing countries, and the word 'collective' on that occasion did upset me, I must say, because the Russian employer delegates attempted to get us to delete the word 'co-operative' and insert the word 'collective'. We as a worker group caucused and, having caucused, we expected the Russian worker delegate to vote in accordance with the caucus decision and in support of the principle of co-operatives rather than collectives. In the event, he voted in the ILO with the Russian employer delegates to delete the word 'cooperative' and insert the word 'collective'. So I hope that that satisfies  Senator Button. 
It is interesting to note that this collective organisation boasts that 3ZZ stated in its summary of scoops that it reported on the Omega bases on the basis of a leaked document of a joint parliamentary committee. Here we have the ironical situation of the Australian taxpayer, through the ABC, funding 3ZZ to the tune of $600,000, and one of its functions is to present a news item which represents a breach of privilege of this Parliament. When a parliamentary committee wants some information it thumbs its nose at that committee. That is the point I want to get over tonight in respect of that matter. If the Joint 
Committee is concerned that it cannot get information from 3ZZ in respect of the serious matters that it has raised, I would point out that a directive was given to the staff of 3ZZ to have the transcripts of any critical statements made available to the producers prior to those statements being broadcast. Yet 3ZZ thumbed its nose at that Committee, on the one hand, and boasts, on the other hand, that it scoops a document which was leaked in breach of the privilege of this Parliament. 
I leave that matter to one side because I want to make a comment on access radio generally. The concept of access radio sounded allright in the first instance, but if the situation is analysed one finds that most of the ordinary people in Australia do not have access to access radio. They are too busy, of course, performing their own jobs. What the ordinary people want is to ensure that there are adequate standards and levels of excellence in the electronic media. But they are not getting that. They are certainly not getting it from the private sector. The legislation currently before the Senate seems to me, at all events, to take away the opportunities that are now available to an ordinary citizen to complain about standards. At the moment, section 16 of the current Broadcasting and Television Act states: 
1 ) The functions ofthe Board are - 
That is, the Broadcasting Control Board- 
to ensure that adequate and comprehensive programs are provided by commercial broadcasting stations and commercial television stations to serve the best interests of the general public. 
I have looked through the amending legislation and, unless I have misunderstood it- I would be happy to receive guidance at the Committee stage- that provision does not appear. What is going to happen? What is the Government doing? Is it proposing legislation which takes away from the ordinary citizen his very limited rights to attempt to ensure that the standards which he considers to be acceptable are preserved? What about the people about whom  Senator Melzer  was talking so eloquently? Are they to be put in the interim period m a situation that was mentioned by  Senator Douglas  McClelland where they will not be able to complain about certain standards of the electronic media? I shall have a little more to say about that during the Committee stage. I hope the Minister will be able to give me some satisfaction in his reply. 
I come now to my final points. One is the question of self-regulation. I agree with what has been said. It is ludicrous in the extreme to presume that those with vested interests in the electronic media are capable of self-regulation. It is just farcical. Secondly, even if I am the only one to do so I must come to the defence of  Sir Henry  Bland. I have known him ever since 1964-65 when he was head of the Department of Labour and National Service. I was introduced to him by Albert Monk, who had a high regard for his efficiency. I guess  Sir Henry  Bland is as good a person as anybody else to be  Chairman  of the ABC insofar as he is an Australian citizen, he has an acknowledged expertise in administration, and he is at least- he said- an avid listener and viewer of the electronic media. What qualifications should a  chairman  of the ABC have other than an appreciation or an understanding of the normal standards expected by the general community and that he be administratively efficient?  Sir Henry  Bland has those qualifications. I think it is unfair for this carping criticism to continue. 
I wish to put in a plug for the ABC in my own home State. I suppose that if anybody has been on the receiving end of current affairs programs in my State I have. The people in my State will understand this. People in the outlying States prefer to have current affairs programs in those States fairly heavily weighted for local content. I raised this matter in a question to the Minister previously. I was very pleased when he undertook to pass it in. I wish to refer also to the ABC orchestra in Tasmania. I know that a clear statement has been given both by the Government and the ABC that there is no intention of taking away our orchestra but the Industries Assistance Commission and the Green report throw these things again into question. I must emphasise, on behalf of the people of Tasmania, how much the orchestra has meant not only to the adult public in that State but also to the children. I make this plea before the Senate that everything possible should be done to protect the ABC orchestra in that State. 
I am sorry to take up the time of the Committee but I want to make 2 comments. I invite the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  to reply with one word. After 1 January, when the Tribunal is established, will the Australian viewing public be able to raise with the Tribunal questions of standards? Will the Tribunal be able then to determine the particular matter and to enforce its decisions on both the commercial and the public broadcasting areas? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs follows a question which I raised in the Senate the other day concerning the very fine report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence,  Australia and the Refugee Problem.  The Committee investigated the problems of Vietnamese and other refugees. Is the Minister aware that yesterday the Thailand Government announced that it would stop accepting refugees from Indo-China by the end of this year, that is, by 3 1 December 1 976? Is the Minister aware that the number of refugees from Vietnam is still running extremely high, even though it is 18 months since the cessation of hostilities in that country? Is the Minister aware that as a result of the Senate inquiry and the understanding gained, the Australian public is conscious of the need to assist with this problem? Will the Minister obtain from her colleague in the other place a commitment that Australia will take a substantial number of refugees? Can this commitment be made prior to Christmas in the spirit of generosity and responsibility? 
Following my contribution to the debate last night, I might appear to be a little obtuse this morning, but I cannot see how, under clause 6, the Tribunal has, firstly, the authority and, secondly, the power to administer what is already able to be administered by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board under section 16 ( 1 ) (c) of the current Broadcasting and Television Act which is sought to be repealed by this Bill. I advert to what  Senator Melzer  said last night. She made the point very clearly that in America television has taught children to kill before they learn to read. As I read the Bill- I hope my interpretation is incorrect- it seeks to repeal that part of the Act which is related to the Broadcasting Control Board. One of the functions of the Broadcasting Control Board, albeit recently it has not lived up to its reputation, is to deal with complaints from viewers as to standards of production and standards of presentation. 
If there is one thing that the people of Australia want it is ease of access to some sort of tribunal in order to ensure that the standards which they deem to be acceptable are those standards which are accepted by the electronic media. Admittedly at present that requirement can be imposed only on the commercial stations, and that is not done with great effect by the Broadcasting Control Board. At least the amendment put forward by  Senator Button  attempts to enshrine in this legislation a power for the Tribunal to ensure that adequate and comprehensive programs are provided by commercial broadcasting stations and commercial television stations in the best interests of the general public. Of course, it is an attempt to transpose what is currently contained in section 16 (1) (c) of the Act into the new provisions for the Tribunal. I wonder whether the Minister can explain to the Senate just where in proposed new section 16 the Tribunal is given power to administer, as distinct from determine, the standards to be observed by licensees? Does the Minister interpret the word determine' to mean both determine and administer? If so, are there provisions for regulations to be made so that the Tribunal in the period between its establishment and its making findings after the public inquiry can ensure the maintenance of standards in the public interest? 
My question is directed to  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Government. The Minister will recall that yesterday I sent him a telegram requesting that any debate in the Senate on the referendum Bills be held on a day on which the proceedings of the Senate are broadcast. The purpose of this request was that the public would be able to hear two sides of the debate on the Bills, not one side as happened in the House of Representatives debate which was held on a day on which that House's proceedings were broadcast. My question is: Did the Leader of the Government take any action following the receipt of my telegram or does he intend, as the order of business sheet indicates, to have the debate on the Bills today, a non-broadcast day? Is it also true that if the debate is not concluded today the Government intends to bring it on again on Thursday, which is another non-broadcast day? If the Leader of the Government did not refer my request to the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings, why did he not do so? If the Minister claims that he could not refer the request because the Committee was not sitting did he follow the usual practice in emergency matters of this nature by referring it to the 4- member grouping of members which can act on behalf of the Committee in emergency matters? 
We are debating a motion by  Senator Durack,  on behalf of the Ministers of the Government I presume, for the suspension of standing order 242 to enable the Constitution Alteration Bills to be passed without a call of the Senate. I think it is important to read what standing order 242 says: It reads: 
Before the Third Reading of any Bill by which an alteration of the Constitution is proposed there shall be a Call of the Senate. If the Third Reading of any such Bill shall not have been carried by an absolute majority of the Senate the Bill shall be forthwith laid aside without Question put, and shall not be revived during the same Session. 
That standing order has stood for many years. It had its genesis in the debates in the Constitutional Convention prior to Federation. It is a most unusual step for the Government to take to seek to bypass that standing order. I agree with what  Senator Wright  and  Senator Rae  have said. They said that the first Government supporters officially knew about these proposals was last Tuesday. But of course the rest of us had to read about it in the newspapers. The first that anyone had heard that the Government was intending to hold referendums was when an article was published in the Melbourne  Sun  of 13 January 1977. That is only a little over 4 weeks ago. And here we are, the Government and some members of the Opposition, in an unholy alliance attempting to ride rough-shod over the Standing Orders of this Senate in order to put these propositions forward without mature consideration as required by the Standing Orders. What apportunity has the public of Australia had to participate in the formulation of these proposals? Absolutely none. Honourable Senators might say that the public had an opportunity at the Constitutional Convention, but the ordinary public, the rank and file of the Australian community, did not have a chance even to be present at the Constitutional Convention. Also, not all viewpoints of this Parliament were represented at that Constitutional Convention. 
The reason for my opposition to the suspension of standing order 242 was ably stated and canvassed by  Senator Wright.  Those arguments that have been put to the Senate by  Senator 
Wright have been put over a number of years. The arguments put by  Senator Wright  in the past are as valid today as when they were first put by him.  Senator Wright-  I agree with him- has been arguing for a long time that the whole of the federal system of Government in Australia is under attack. He believes, and I feel that other honourable senators opposite, if not Opposition senators, believe that the motion seeking the suspension of this standing order is but another example of how the federal system is under attack. This Senate was not called into being by the founding fathers to be a spongy rubber stamp of another place; it was set up as part of the federal compact. Members of the other place and Ministers there ought to realise that if there had been no Senate there would have been no federation. If it had not been for the creation of this House there would have been no such person as the Prime Minister of Australia. Standing order 242 was designed to keep the Senate as part of the federal compact between the States and the new Commonwealth of Australia. Why was standing order 242 originally written into the Standing Orders? 
It is all very well for somebody to advance frivolous arguments by saying that the standing order was introduced by senators when travel was by horse or buggy or sailing ship. I regard that as a ha-ha argument. I believe it was written into the Standing Orders of this place shortly after the Senate first met for the deliberate purpose of ensuring that senators representing their States could ascertain the views and the will of their electors. What must always be remembered about alterations to the Constitution is that they deal with transfers of power. I suppose, tragically, they have always dealt with the transfer of power from the States to the Commonwealth. What referendum proposals are generally all about is the transfer of further and other powers to the federal governmentpowers which the State governments previously had as part of their residual powers. This is why senators are entitled to consult their constituents in the States. What chance have honourable senators had of consulting their constituents in the States? I put it to you,  Mr President,  although it may sound an old fashioned view these days, that one is entitled also to consult one's colleagues in the State parliament. It seems to me to be overlooked that there is some sort of comity between members of this Parliament and members of the State parliaments. After all, this is a States House. It was for all those reasons that the Senate in its original wisdom said that in this chamber, following the second reading of a constitutional alteration Bill that honourable senators perhaps supported and voted for, there would be a 3-week delay before the third reading was taken. Iris a great pity that the House of Representatives Standing Orders do not contain that rule. 
I considered, after I telephoned  Senator Durack  as he has revealed to the Senate tonight, what I ought to say about this matter of the suspension of Standing Orders, the motion for which is before the Senate tonight. I could do no better than turn up the debate which took place on 6 March 1974 on an identical matter to one of the matters that are to be put before the Senate. I refer to the simultaneous elections proposition. I could do no better than go to the words of the Leader of the Opposition at that time,  Senator Withers-  the present Leader of the Government in the Senate. What I have said tonight is precisely what was said by the Leader of the Opposition at that time- the present Leader of the Goverment. It is no good for him to say 'Burn  Hansard',  because what he said - 
-I guessed that that was what the Leader of the Government would say. It is no good him saying that, because in his address at that time he virtually stated that these principles to which reference has been made are immutable principles. That is what the Leader of the Government in the Senate and Leader of the Liberal Party in the Senate said on that occasion. 
Indeed, he was supported, and with some success. 
Yes. The then Leader of the National Country Party,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  said things similar to what I am saying tonight. Knowing him as I do, I assume that he will stick to the principles he announced on that occasion. I assume that he will be in opposition to the blatant attempt to truncate debate on this matter in the public arena. That is what the Government is trying to do with this proposal. It is trying to deny the people of Australia an opportunity to engage in discussions on the formulation of constitutional amendment proposals. 

 - Senator Button says Rubbish!'. What chance have the people of 
Australia had to involve themselves in discussions and the formulation of proposals? They have had absolutely no chance. The Government will present to them a  fait accompli.  It will be a take-it-or-leave-it situation. All I am saying is that at the present point of time we should allow the provisions of the Standing Orders to flow. We should allow 3 weeks to elapse before the Bills are given a third reading. We should allow public debate on the formulation of the proposals. Certainly, at the given time the members of the public themselves will determine the issue. But at least we should allow them the opportunity to formulate proposals. Surely the Government - 
Yes, they should be entitled to formulate even amendments. Surely the Government is not the repository of all wisdom in regard to the Constitution- or is it? Is that what honourable senators think? Are they frightened to allow the operation of the Standing Orders to go ahead? Are they afraid of the situation - 
-I am not afraid of what the result will be. I know what the result will be on at least two of the matters. All I am suggesting is that standing order 242 is there for a particular purpose. Only on very rare occasions has the Government or the Senate attempted to by-pass the Standing Orders.  Mr President,  I appeal to you and to the Senate to enable this standing order 242 to stand for the purpose of allowing the people of Australia to participate in a debate on the formulation of proposals before we finally determine their form. 

 - Mr President, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the order of business being rearranged to provide that the Constitution Alteration Bills be considered only while the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast, and it be so ordered. 
I have moved that motion subsequent to the debate that has just been concluded. I accept the decision of the Senate that has just been made. I disagree with it, but I accept it. However, that decision is no reason for preventing the public from being exposed to the differing viewpoints on these proposals which are of great importance to the future of Australia. You will recall,  Mr President,  that last week these proposals were debated in the House of Representatives on a day on which the proceedings were broadcast. It would be grossly unfair to this Senate and to those opposing the viewpoint put forward by the Government to deny to the people of Australia an opportunity to hear the full debate on the subject matter of these proposals. Time and time again in the preceding debate the Government's spokesmen said: 'Let us get on with the debate on the subject matter of these proposals'. I agree with that; let us get on with it. But let us not deny to the public of Australia a fair and reasonable hearing of the various viewpoints on the subject matter. 
I draw your attention,  Mr President,  and that of other honourable senators to the time. At present it is 9.17 p.m. The Senate is due to adjourn at 10.30 p.m.- in merely one hour and 1 3 minutes time. Will it make any difference to the Government if debate on this question is delayed for one hour and 13 minutes? I believe that it is essential for the public to be exposed even to the indecent arguments that may be put forward in support of at least two of the referenda proposals. I respectfully submit to you,  Mr President,  and to the Senate my proposal, which is: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the order of business being rearranged to provide that the Constitution Alteration Bills be considered only while the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast, and it be so ordered. 
I remind you and honourable senators of the fact that the entire debate on this subject in the House of Representatives was broadcast. It was a very one-sided debate. Why should not the whole of the debate in this House, particularly on those matters which affect this House so vitally, be debated on the day on which the proceedings here are broadcast, so that the subject may be exposed to the varying viewpoints on the subject matter? 
in reply- I do not want to delay the Senate. I think the support for my proposition has been overwhelming. The reasons that have been given by other honourable senators are far more cogent than the reasons that I initially advanced in my opening address. I must say that having heard the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  I feel now that it is more important for the Senate to support the motion than when I initially proposed it, because what  Senator Withers  is saying is that the Government Whip and the Opposition Whip will get together tomorrow to determine when this debate will take place. We have no guarantee that any part of this debate will take place in broadcast time. That is what has resulted from the debate on this matter. The Leader of the Government has not even given a guarantee that any part of this debate will take place in the Senate in broadcast time. 
I suggest that the motion I have moved is perfectly in order to ensure that the public is exposed to the various opinions over the air waves. People may say that the debate will be well and truly detailed in the Press, in the for and against publications that are sent out to all householders. Remember those unfortunate people in the community who are without sight, those people who are ill and those people who for a number of reasons- who cannot readdepend, God forbid, on the broadcasts of the Parliament to learn what is going on in this national capital. 
I suggest that honourable senators, and  Senator McLaren  who interjected, should give a bit of mature thought to this matter. 
He may be incapable of that but at least he should try to give a bit of thought to this matter and support this motion because he should know that the Government has not given any guarantee at all that any part of this debate will be broadcast. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Harradine's)  be agreed to. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations by reminding him that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  gave an assurance to Parliament on 1 June 1976 that registered industrial organisations need not amend their rules to conform with the 1973 amendments to section 133 (1) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act because they had until 13 November 1976 to do so and by that time the 
Government intended to amend the Act. Such assurances were also given to this Senate by  Senator Carrick  on behalf of the Minister. Is the Minister aware that the decision of the Australian Industrial Court in B. No. 55 of 1976 reveals such assurances to have been absolutely worthless and contrary to fact, and that registered industrial organisations which amended their rules after 13 November 1974, in accordance with the understanding of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, or which placed their faith in the assurances he gave to them and to this Parliament, could now find themselves in an impossible position with invalid rules affecting over 1 000 000 trade unionists? In view of this very grave situation will the Minister advise the Parliament why the Parliament was so misled and, more importantly, what urgent steps are being taken to enable the Parliament to remedy the situation resulting from the Court's interpretation of seciton 133(1) (a) before its repeal and the ineffectiveness of the 12 November 1976 amendments to sections 4 and 1 33 as a consequence? 

 -Mr President, I rise on a point of explanation concerning a misrepresentation, if it is in order to do so. Page 247 of the  Hansard  record of last night's debate has me saying 'the then Leader of the National Country Party,  Senator DrakeBrockman,  said things similar'. The 'things similar' to which I was referring were the similar things said by  Senator Withers  in 1974, when he was in Opposition, about the suspension of Standing Orders- that is the suspension of the call of the Senate. I am informed that it was not  Senator Drake-Brockman  who said those things on that occasion. I give  Senator DrakeBrockman  credit; he would maintain consistency. It was  Senator Webster,  in fact the current Leader of the National Country Party in this chamber, who said those things. 
I also associate myself with the remarks made by  Senator Bonner.  With  Senator Rae,  I congratulate  Senator Bonner  for taking the lead in this very important matter. On the radio today I heard an interview with an Anglican prelate. He was asked what could be done. Of course, people can pray. He said that governments should take action. I appreciate that the Australian Government has vigorously protested about the events in Uganda. I wonder what more the Government can do. I know it is very difficult for the Government to do anything diplomatically because, as I understand the situation- the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  who is at the table will correct me if I am wrong- I do not think we have any diplomatic relations with Uganda. If we did we could express our protest diplomatically by breaking off diplomatic relations. But there are other measures which can be adopted. I know that the Minister for Administrative Services has a very keen sense as far as foreign affairs are concerned and that he will take abroad what has been said in the Senate tonight and refer the matter to the Government. I hope that he will do so. I associate myself with the remarks made by  Senator Bonner. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I rise to ask for leave to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 - Senator Sibraa invited me to state my position in 1974. For the information of the Senate, I was a member of the State Executive of the Australian Labor Party in Tasmania in 1974. My recollection is- and I do not say that it is perfect- that we were not requested to authorise any expenditure on the referenda matters. Presumably expenditure on that subject would have come from a national source. I was not requested to take part in or support the proposed referenda campaign, nor did I. We were engaged in a general election at that time in which the Tasmanian Labor Party, of which I was a member, returned 5 seats in the 
House of Representatives in 1974. It is only since then- since the Left have gained control- that these seats have been wiped out for Labor. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! Leave is not granted. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister or the Minister representing the Treasurer, whichever is the appropriate Minister. It refers to the ex gratia payment of $25,000 to  Senator Greenwood's  widow. Is the Minister aware that every worker in Australia is covered by workers compensation and that the widow or widower would be entitled as of right, in similar circumstances of his or her dying following a heart attack when going home from work, to a lump sum payment- in my State it is approximately $30,000- in addition to any pension paid under a contributory superannuation scheme? Why should a parliamentarian's widow or widower have to beg the Government for an  ex gratia  payment for what is an entitlement as of right of every other worker in Australia? When will the Government consider the introduction of legislation which will cover members of Parliament for workers compensation? So far as I am concerned, we all ought to go out on strike until we are covered for workers compensation. 
I should like to register my opposition to the first proposal. I think that it is indicative of the attempt by Ministers in the Government and the Opposition to railroad the Standing Orders in order to have these Bills pushed through before they can be adequately aired in the electorate. I take the same view as I did when speaking in respect of a previous motion relating to the debates taking place on a broadcast day. The public has not had the opportunity of participating in the formulation of the proposals about which they are to vote. If we can devote more time to this debate it will be beneficial to democracy in the long run. I do not wish to delay the debate at this time other than to say that I think general business is important. I am surprised that the Opposition has so readily agreed to waive the right of honourable senators to have general business of a Thursday night. 
What concerns me about the proposals to hold referenda in the manner which is being sought is that it is evident that the Fraser Government considers that it will be unable to restrain inflation and to reduce unemployment by the time of the expected half Senate election in mid- 1978. Obviously that is what is behind the proposals which are being put before the Senate and, in particular, the proposal for the so called simultaneous elections. To me, this is a matter about which the Australian public should be very concerned. That is why throughout this week I have attempted to have the matter debated on broadcasting days and to ensure that the standing orders of the Senate were observed so that people would become aware of the confidence trick which is being perpetrated against them by a denial of their opportunity in 1978 to express their opinion about the performance of the Government in power without taking the final step of throwing that Government out of power. 
I believe that the conspiracy between the Ministers and the Opposition is absolutely disgusting. I believe that the people of Australia will see through that charade. I come to the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill which we are discussing and I shall make some comments about it. First of all, I take some exception to the remarks which were made by  Senator James  McClelland. I do not think it assists in any way, shape or form to denigrate, as he did, another member of Parliament in the fashion in which he did. The Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  is doing the job he has been appointed to do, and that is to attempt to get the numbers for the Government's decision in the Senate. I would have liked to have seen the 
Minister's reasons for supporting this proposition which is currently before us, having regard to the statements of immutable principle which he enunciated when these proposals were before the Senate in 1975 and previously in 1974. 1 await to hear from him any explanation of what has happened to change those immutable principles upon which he stood at those times. I have yet to hear the explanation. Before I refer to his comments in 1974 and 1975 I simply say that the comments of  Senator James  McClelland about the electorate could be construed as a slight on the electorate. After all, what did the electorate do to this proposition only 2 years ago? It soundly defeated it and, in particular, it soundly defeated it in country areas. For the benefit of honourable senators who may be interested in country areas I would like to quote figures which show the overwhelming rejection by the people of Australia, particularly those in country areas, of the proposal currently before us. Let me start off with Western Australia and simply refer to a couple of electorates. In Canning only 30.4 per cent of electors voted in favour of the proposed law. In Curtin only 35.09 per cent voted in favour of the proposed law we are talking about. In Forrest only 36.18 per cent voted in favour of it. In Kalgoorlie 39.9 per cent and in Moore 34.03 per cent voted in favour of it. Let us see what the Queenslanders did, particularly those in country areas. Of the electors in Darling Downs only 32.25 per cent voted for the proposition. In Fisher only 30.3 per cent voted in favour of the proposition. In McPherson only 38.61 percent voted in favour of it. 
I am talking about country areas. I will come to the city shortly. In Maranoa only 30.52 per cent voted in favour of the proposition. I am talking specifically about country areas for a very good reason. 
All right. In Brisbane only 45.3 per cent of the electorate voted in favour of the proposition. In Ryan the figure was 38.99 per cent. In South Australia in a number of country electorates the percentage of electors who voted against the proposition being debated today was even greater. Some people say that we should be able to lead public opinion but we also ought to reflect public opinion, and public opinion was declared very firmly in the constitutional referendum of May 1 974. We should not forget 18 May 1974 when the people of Australia rejected the proposition because, as  Senator 
Wright has said on this occasion, if that proposition were carried it would make the Senate a rubber stamp of the House of Represenatives and of the executive government. If that is what is wanted and if honourable senators want to turn this place into the best club in Australia they are entitled to try to do it, but I believe in working for my living and in order to achieve something one must have power. What this legislation seeks to do is to emasculate the power of this Senate. 
The proposition has been well argued by  Senator Wright,  clearly and cogently. Honourable senators will be given the chance to show and in fact will be tested on their genuineness about simultaneous elections. This is not an argument about simultaneous elections at all. I could not care less whether we have simultaneous elections.  Senator Missen  last night suggested that not having simultaneous elections throws up all sorts of odd people into this chamber, including independents. I was elected at a simultaneous election and received almost twice the quota; so I do not mind in the slightest having simultaneous elections. However, senators will be given an opportunity at a later time to test their genuineness about whether they want simultaneous elections or whether they feel that what  Senator Button  and  Senator Cavanagh  said is true, that is, that the net result of carrying this referendum in the electorate would be the emasculation of the powers of the Senate and the significant transfer of powers from the States to the central Parliament. We in this States House should hang our heads in shame if we support that.  Senator Wright  is not alone in what he has stated. It has been stated time and time again by the strange bedfellows which the Australian Labor Party now seems to have in the persons of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  and senior Government Ministers. 
I shall now quote from some of their remarks in 1974 on immutable principles, for that is what they were called. Before I do so I ask why the Prime Minister does not consider what the people in his electorate thought about this proposition when it was put to the people in 1974. Only 38 per cent of the people of Wannon were in favour of the proposition as against 58 per cent who were not in favour of it. Does the Prime Minister reflect the opinion of his own electorate? Have the immutable principles which he stood on at that time somehow changed or has he changed in some desperate move to stave off a Gallup poll election in 1978 which would allow the people to make a judgment on his performance as Prime Minister and the performance of the Government without invoking the ultimate sanction of throwing the Government out of office? 
What did the Prime Minister say in 1974? He said amongst other things that the referendum was quite unnecessary and we have heard why the referendum was quite unnecessary. If the Government wants simultaneous elections it can have simultaneous elections and can have them by calling an election of the House of Representatives in the middle part of 1978. But no, it is attempting to do in this Bill something which would be rejected by every tribunal in this country. It is attempting to change the ground rules and extend the current term of office of persons who have been elected. If a union tried to extend the current term of office of officials who were elected the industrial registrar would reject the proposal under regulation 115 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations on the ground that it was unreasonable, oppressive and unjust. However, now the Government is attempting to change the ground rules, is attempting to give to members of this Senate an extra six or eight months in the Senate for which they were not elected. Quite clearly that is the position. If it wanted to, the Government could synchronise elections by having an election in the middle part of 1978. 
Let me turn to what  Mr Snedden  said at that time.  Mr Snedden,  a very eminent Queens Counsel and a man with a great deal of knowledge, was the Leader of the present Government par-  ties at that time. He said: 
I believe it is an unnecessary proposal. What are these referendums? To all four I urge you to say 'no'. I do this because each of them is completely unnecessary or positively bad. 
The current Treasurer, Phillip Lynch, said: 
On May 18 Australians should vote 'No' to the inflationary Government - 0 
Get that- and 'No' to the referenda by which that Government seeks to keep itself in power. 
In the official No case publication there is this statement which was prepared by those eminent people who are now proposing the Yes case. It states that this proposition: 
. would cut out the constitutional independence of the Senate and open the way for progressive reduction of its powers. 
This is also what  Senator Wright  has been saying. What did  Senator Button  say but that we should be simply a palsied appendage of the House of Representatives. If other honourable senators want to be eunuchs I do not. I want at least to be virile and to continue to be virile for some considerable time, to have a little power for good in this community and for the protection of the people in the States of this country. What did the then Country Party say at that time? I have no doubt the Country Party was on the right tram on that occasion and reflected truly the opinion of the people in the country. What did the New South Wales branch of the Country Party say? It stated: 
Protect the future of your children by voting No to all your questions on the Whitlam referendum- you won't get a second chance! 
Little did members of the Country Party know that their coalition partners, who are pulling their coat tails about this matter, would give the electorate a second chance to destroy the power of the Senate. What did  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  say? He said: 
What  Mr Whitlam  really wants is to destroy the Senate, which is Labor policy. 
Bob Askin, for whom a number of senior members of the Ministry have a great regard, said: 
The automatic linking of the elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives would make it much more likely that both Houses would be controlled by one Party, with the danger that the Senate would be reduced to a 'rubber stamp'. If you regard the Senate as having any important role to fulfil as a States' House and as a check on the power of the House of Representatives you will vote 'No' to this proposal. 
I remind honourable senators that the proposal that he was talking about is the proposal that we are discussing here today. The 4 premiers-  Sir Robert  Askin,  Mr Hamer, Mr Bjelke-Petersen  and  Sir Charles  Court-on 1 5 May declared in a news item in the  Australian: 
. question one - 
That is the proposal on simultaneous elections that we are discussing-  was aimed at undermining the Senate, the main defence line of the States in Federal Parliament. 
What has changed since then? I shall quote from one of the people who have influenced this Government to change- a so-called expert on electoral affairs,  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras. What did he say at the previous referendum? He said: 
My 'no' vote is prompted by the fact that Ilike separate Senate elections. 
At least he was opposed not from immutable principles but because he was in the guessing game area. Apparently he has changed his mind.  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras apparently has guessed -some of his guesses have gone wrong on previous occasions- that if the half Senate election is held in 1978 the Government could stand a chance of losing the numbers in the Senate. For that reason he has influenced the Prime Minister and other senior members of the Cabinet to concoct a referendum proposal for purely political purposes, disregarding the immutable principles for which those people have stood previously. I challenge  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras to show that his suggestion is in accordance with fact. The facts are that it would be virtually impossible for the Australian Labor Party to gain ascendency in the Senate in 1978. 
Let us examine that situation. In 1978 there will be 20 Government senators coming out and 15 Opposition senators coming out. That will leave remaining in the Senate16 Government senators, 12 Labor Party senators and one independent Given that all States go against the Government except Queensland, the result of the half Senate election in 1978 would be a return of 16 Government senators and 19 Opposition senators, giving the following line-up after the half Senate elections in 1978: 32 Government senators, 31 Opposition senators and one independent. Giving all the States to the Labor Party and a break even situation in Victoria because of the casual vacancy there and giving one seat to each side in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory we would still end up with 3 1 Government senators, 32 Labor Party senators and one independent. The Labor Party could not bank on support from me automatically because I have a long memory. So  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras has given some interesting advice to the Prime Minister indeed. The Prime Minister has been conned by that advice. How many times has  Mr Mackerras  been wrong? 
Oh, yes.  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras did not oppose the previous referendum on immutable principles but because he liked separate Senate elections. He could go on television, I suppose, and comment on separate elections. The more elections the better so far as he is concerned. I remind honourable senators of an article in the Hobart  Mercury  of 22 May 1974- that was after the referendum poll- which reported the views of  Mr Bingham.  It reads: 
I am glad the majority of Tasmanians saw through the superficial attractions of the four Federal Government proposals as they were framed . . . 

 Mr Bingham said that Tasmanians had shown that they were interested in federalism rather than a unitary system of government. 
I remind Tasmanian senators that in Tasmania only 39 per cent of voters supported the simultaneous elections proposition. I turn to what  Mr Knox  said on that occasion. Of course  Mr Knox  is now the leader of the parliamentary Liberal Party in the Queensland Parliament.  His  remarks were reported in the Brisbane  CourierMail  newspaper of 73 May 1974 as follows: 
The State Government believed it had a mandate to increase its opposition to centralism and more power to Canberra following the defeat of the 4 referendums last weekend, the Justice Minister  Mr Knox  said today. 
All of the coalition party Premiers at that time and all of the senior people in the Liberal Party and the National Country Party said that they were standing on a principle. They said that the danger of the proposal for simultaneous elections, as it was drafted by the then Whitlam Government and as it is now proposed by the Fraser Government, was that it represented a threat to the power of the Senate and also a threat to the powers and rights of the States. 
I return to deal with what  Senator Withers  said. I say this without any backbiting in regard to him. I can only say that in my dealings with him he has been straightforward and to the point. I would like to hear him being straightforward and to the point on this occasion, having regard to what he said when the matter was before the Senate on 13 March 1974. On that occasion he said clearly:  the Senate is not meant to be a mirror of the House of Representatives. It has a different electorate. It belongs to the total electorate and not part of it ... As far as we are concerned, the Senate is not going to be a spongy rubber stamp. 
That cry will echo around the electorate in the forthcoming months and the people of Australia will not allow this Senate to be a spongy rubber stamp. What did  Senator Withers  say on 10 June 1 975 in the second reading debate on the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1975? He said: 
The Opposition will oppose the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1975. The Bill falls into the pattern of attacks on the Senate which has typified this Government. Only 12 months ago the people rejected this proposal out of hand and I put to the Senate that the people have already had their say . . . I put to the Senate that it is a waste of the Parliament's time; it is a waste of the Senate 's time; it is a waste of the electors ' time; and it is a waste of the electors' money. 
The test of this matter is whether the Government is prepared to put the proposals to a referendum at the same time as the next half Senate election. Why not do this if it is serious about the matter and if it is a matter of principle? It would save the cost of going to the people now, which one honourable senator suggested would be $5m or $8m- I am not precise about the cost. The Government does not want to go to the people on the vital issues that are affecting the economy- prices and incomes- but it will spend their money and create more inflation by going to the people separately with referenda proposals on these matters for purely political purposes, namely, to avoid the opinion of the people as it would be declared at a half Senate election. 
Why not allow this matter to be decided at an election time, as I think the Whitlam Government did? At least that Government held the referendum at the same time as an election for this Parliament. It did not spend the taxpayers' money on a separate vote. Somebody will correct me if I am wrong; but, from memory, that referendum was held at the same time as an election for this Parliament. Why does not the Government do that? Why all the rush? Why ride roughshod over the Senate Standing Orders and truncate the debate by deciding that it has to be finalised today? I will tell honourable senators why, if the Government will not: It all has to do with the Budget the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  will bring down in August of this year. It appears that the country will have to suffer raging inflation and rampant unemployment until the Government is ready to go to the people, which it reckons will be in the first half of 1979 or, at the earliest, November or December of 1 978. 
As I said at the beginning, the real issue is this: The Government admits by the introduction of this legislation that it cannot get the economy going again by the expected time of the half Senate election in 1978. That is the real issue. That is the real reason why the Government is rushing these Bills through. If the Government does not have them passed this week, they will have to be brought forward again and there will not be time to hold the referendum before the Government formulates its horror Budget that will be presented in August of this year. Why do not honourable senators on the Government side admit that that is the real reason why the Government has introduced the legislation. It has not been introduced because of any matter of principle. I say that this is a very serious situation. Only 18 months ago in the Senate the present Leader of the Government in the Senate enunciated immutable principles when he said: 
We oppose this legislation because it is another attempt by the Prime Minister to destroy the Senate. 
He said very clearly: 
If the referendum which the legislation proposes were passed by some freak mischance, it would effectively destroy the capacity of the Senate to act as it now does. It would be the first step towards placing all power into the hands of the House of Representatives and therefore into the hands of the Prime Minister for the time being. It would destroy the Parliament as we have known the Parliament since 1900 . . . He - 
That was the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam-  wants a rubber stamp, a lame duck and a tame dog. In fact, he just wants to get his own way. 
It appears that Prime Ministers are all in the same mould. They all appear to want their own way. All of the coat pulling that has been going on in the last few days is a disgrace to the principle enunciated by members of the coalition parties that they at least are free to say what they think. We are told that at least they are not like the members of the Australian Labour Party whose Executive and Caucus determine what they do. So they are free to stand up in the Parliament and admit what coat pulling has been going on. I thought that the coalition party members were wearing overcoats when I passed them coming out of their meeting this morning. That is how long the tails of their coats were. 
We have further evidence that these measures are totally unacceptable. Let me go to the comments made by  Senator Webster,  the Leader of the National Country Party. Again, whilst I will read them in criticism, I do not do so with animosity. Again, like  Senator Withers, Senator Webster  is a dedicated Minister. However, I point out that he said on 1 3 March 1974:  all these measures . . . and particularly the one that is before us at the moment, have a reflection in that they will denigrate the Senate in some way. 
Again, as recorded at page 260 of  Hansard  of 13 March 1974, he said: 
The Bill before the Senate and the related Bills, I believe, indicate that the Government is attempting to trick the people into approving the greatest plunder of the Australian Constitution ever attempted. 
Yes, indeed. I expect that he will go out amongst his electorate in Victoria and maintain that position because he went on to say, as recorded at page 26 1 of  Hansard: 
My Party's attitude to the proposal was expressed clearly when the Senate debated this Bill last December, and our views have not changed. We see it as an attempt to downgrade the Senate and to weaken its independence. 
What did  Senator Missen  say last night? Last night was the first time that I thought  Senator Webster  was in the pocket of  Senator Missen.  What did  Senator Missen  say last night? He said precisely the same thing. He said: 'Oh, would it not be a tragedy if there were Independents in this Senate; if half Senate elections threw up Independents'. To cap it off,  Senator Webster  said: 
If honourable senators are loyal to their House this Bill must not pass. 
Then we have the comments of another front bench Minister,  Senator Carrick,  who, of all people in this House, is regarded very highly for his enunciation of very high principles. I respect him for that. 
I will come to you directly, senator. Do you want me to talk about the Australian Labor Party because in a moment I shall come to the real reason why you are supporting this legislation. As recorded at page 266 of  Hansard  of 13 March 1974,  Senator Carrick  said: 
We are being asked to write into the Constitution a power which would, in future, prevent any kind of mid-term elections. This would prevent a Senate election being held between elections for the House of Representatives. This would mean, as I said, that the people of Australia could not have the chance to sit in judgment on the Government, to give the Government a nudge, to give it a kick in the pants or to say to it: 'No, we think you have gone too far' . . . 
That is precisely what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  now thinks. He thinks that the people of Australia are going to give him a kick in the pants at the half Senate election in 1978. So all the immutable principles go by the board.  Senator Carrick  went on to say: 
To say that the people are annoyed and irritated with elections is really to argue for a dictatorship. It is really to argue for the destruction of democracy. If you do not have elections, you do not have democracy. The essence of democracy is that the power which resides at present in the 2 Houses of this Parliament should be reviewed as frequently as possible and as desirable so that the people in Australia can sit in judgment. Let us throw aside this idea that cost or the irritation involved in an election is the thing to be considered. 
All these things are a perfect answer to what was said here last night by  Senator Missen. Senator Carrick  went on to say: 
What the people of Australia should understand is that the Government wants the Senate to be always a mirror image and therefore an automaton reflection of itself. It does not want any opposition. It simply wants to mute the Senate so that the Senate can rubber stamp its own decisions. This is the whole idea of trying to bring elections for the 2 Houses together. 
I have quoted from the debate on the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1974 as set out at pages 253 to 277 of the Senate  Hansard  of 13 March 1974. 1 have quoted those immutable principles as enunciated on that occasion. What has occurred since? Why is there not a genuine realisation on the part of the Government that if it wants to change the Constitution let it do so and bring in matters of graver importance to the community such as inflation and unemployment if it reckons that the Commonwealth has not the power to deal with these matters. If the Government is going ahead only with these particular matters let it save money by submitting them at the next half Senate election. 
What about the Australian Labor Party? Why does it not propose the same thing, because that is what it did on the last occasion. The reason that Opposition senators gave for holding the referendum in conjunction with the general election was to save on costs. Now $5m is a lot of money, particularly considering the inflation with which we are confronted at this time. But the Government will not do so. As I said, it is all about the need to get out of the road the matter of whether the Constitution is changed. This would enable the Government to have an election in the final dying hours of 1 978 or in April or May of 1979, to bring down a horror Budget this year, to allow unemployment and inflation to run rampant throughout the country and to impose upon the ordinary people of Australia the heavy burden of shouldering those problems. The Government then denies to them their opportunity of sitting in judgment on its performance without taking the ultimate sanction of throwing the Government out of office with all that entails in regard to foreign affairs and everything else. 
Let me turn to the Australian Labor Party. Why does the ALP support this proposal so vehemently? Well, of course, Opposition senators supported it previously. But why do they not say that it should be held at the time of the next half Senate election? We know that 23 against 27 members of the Caucus wanted it. But it is all to do with leadership. The leadership of the parliamentary Labor Party will come up again in May of this year because of the principle of an 18- months review of leadership which was adopted by Caucus after the 1975 general election. On that basis, the next review in ordinary events will be held in November 1978. For the current Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  that is an ideal time. If the referenda proposals go through and if there is to be a Federal election in about November or December 1978, who is going to challenge his leadership one month before an election? Of course no one will challenge his leadership one month before an election. I ask Opposition senators to deny that people in the Caucus room divided on the question of leadership. Of course that is what is behind it. They are in the same cynical, political position as the Government is. 
The immutable principles that were enunciated by the people whom I have mentioned must stand. Nothing has changed them; not one thing. Last night I interjected during  Senator Missen's  speech and asked: 'What has changed?'. I think another honourable senator said that there has been a Constitutional Convention. Good lord, so Constitutional Conventions change immutable principles! Who attended that Constitutional Convention? Need I read out what was said by the Australian Labor Party and the Government about the Constitutional Convention and its worthlessness? I will not bother honourable senators with that because I have only 15 minutes left in which to speak. Honourable senators well know what was said. We all know that not every opinion represented in the Parliament was represented at the Constitutional Convention. Certainly, the rank and file of the Australian community was not represented at the Constitutional Convention. 
That is why I made the suggestion which came from my reading of the 1974 propositions, including a reading of the late  Senator Greenwood's  speech, that there ought to be a select committee to consider these matters to allow the people to participate in the formulation of the proposals. The other night  Senator Button  said: 'What a ridiculous statement. How could one sidle up to a fellow in the pub and ask him how he thought these propositions should be formulated?' I know what people would say. I know what they will say about the formulation of the propositions at the moment. In all seriousness the people of Australia will give the answer to the Government and the Opposition as they did on the last occasion. The immutable principles have not changed in their minds. Political expedience has taken over and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is attempting to force this measure through so that the people cannot sit in judgment upon his performance. We have the extraordinary position of an Opposition allowing him to get away with it. But the people of Australia will not allow their democratic rights to be taken away. They will not allow honourable senators to extend the terms for which they were elected. No court in Australia would accept that situation. If an industrial union tried to do this in respect of its own officers it would be rejected by the Industrial Registrar. Honourable senators should take that aboard. If the Constitution is to be amended it should be done prospectively for future members of the Parliament. We should not ride roughshod over the democratic rights and feelings of the people of Australia. 
I ask the Minister for Administrative Services: Is it not a fact that under the Referendum (Constitution Alteration) Act the official Yes and No cases on a referendum proposal have to be authorised by members of Parliament who vote for or against the referendum Bill or Bills in the national Parliament? Does the Minister agree that under the Act a No case will be distributed by the Chief Electoral Officer only if members of the House of Representatives or senators vote in the Parliament against one or other of the referendum proposals? As the Minister responsible for the operation of the Act, does he know which vote in the Parliament is taken by the Chief Electoral Officer as fulfilling opposition to a referendum Bill? In view of the spurious arguments of some of his coalition colleagues who intend to oppose the referenda in the electorate but who say that their votes in this place for the measures are simply to allow the people a chance to vote on them, will the Minister give an undertaking that their votes for the measures under these circumstances will not be used in support of the official Yes case to be delivered to each elector? 
In 1974, words similar to what  Senator Wright  has just said moved senior members of the then Opposition, who are now members of the Government, to say that the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill should be opposed because it was a direct attack on the powers of this chamber and would substantially transfer power from the States and from the States' Houses to the Executive Government. Let it not be forgotten that those words were said. I do not propose to go over all that was said by the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  in his second reading speech. But I am still waiting to hear from the Government supporters why this extraordinary sommersault has taken place. I have heard no reason for this change in attitude. I have heard one excuse, but no reason. 

 Mr CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman) Your point of order is noted,  Senator. 
The reason I am raising this matter is the very reason that the Minister for Veterans' Affairs gave for his support for this clause. He said he supported the clause because the Constitutional Convention had endorsed it. That is the only excuse that has been bandied around this chamber for the last 3 days. I am about to bury that red herring because it is beginning to stink. If the reason for us to support this particular clause of the Bill is that the Constitutional Convention endorsed it- 
All right! The first thing that  Senator Missen  said in this debate was that all of these wise men sat down at the Constitutional Convention and carried this proposition. They also carried the proposition to break the nexus between the House of Representatives and the Senate. Why does the Government not come forward with that proposal? That is what the Constitutional Convention decided to do. Honourable senators know the effect that would have on the smaller States. They would be absolutely swamped. Honourable senators also know what such a move would do to this chamber. I support the proposition that was outlined by  Senator Wright  in his quite objective and unemotional manner. Although I am not legally qualified-  Senator Button  is- I join with  Senator Button  in commending  Senator Wright's  draftsmanship. It incorporates what I believe the majority of honourable senators want, that is, presumably, simultaneous elections. As I mentioned, from a political point of view I do not mind simultaneous elections because 1 was returned with 2 quotas at a simultaneous election. The point is- 

 - Senator McLaren said I did not have 2 quotas. I had about one-half of one per cent off 2 quotas, if he wants to know. Sometimes it is important to have a half senate election, not in conjunction with an election for the Government, where the people can express their opinion about the performance of the Government. That is the only reason that the 
Government is pursuing this matter. Government supporters are absolutely terrified of going to the people in a half Senate election in mid 1978. They are absolutely terrified because apparently they feel that their programs will not rein in inflation and reduce unemployment. The people of Australia ought to be absolutely terrified about that prospect. They ought to be given an opportunity of expressing their opinion about the performance of the Executive Government without having to resort to the ultimate sanction of throwing out the Government. Perhaps the Minister for Veterans' Affairs or  Senator Missen  will be able to explain to me why, if they want simultaneity, the Government creates diversity in the question of the issue of the writs. 
Yes, diversity. The Government has created diversity. I notice that this matter relates to the next clause so I will leave this matter until then. Maybe the Minister will be able to tell us why the Government has created that diversity. 
The Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  has not answered the query that I raised in addressing myself to the previous clause. In attempting to amend the Constitution to provide for simultaneous elections, why has the Government, either deliberately or unwittingly, got out of kilter the writs for those elections? The Committee is dealing with clause 4, which seeks to alter section 12 of the Constitution to provide  inter aiia  that the writs shall be issued within 14 days from the date on which the places to be filled become vacant. In the current provisions of the Constitution the period is 10 days, and I do not know if the Minister has any explanation for that. To save the time of the Committee, I would be happy if the Minister could explain it now and then I will raise a couple of other points. 
I wish to gain clarification on a minor matter in relation to the issue of the writs. I pointed out that the provision seeks to change the period within which the writs can be issued. At the present time section 32 of the Constitution provides that the writs for the House of Representatives must be issued within 10 days from the expiry of the House of Representatives or from the proclamation of a dissolution thereof. Currently under the Constitution also, the writs for the Senate must be issued within 10 days. The position now, if I understand it correctly, is that in the proposed legislation the date of expiry will be the same. In other words, so far as the Senate is concerned, the expiry date will be the expiry date of the House of Representatives. Currently, it will be on the third anniversary of the first sitting which, in normal circumstances, would be a Tuesday. Currently, of course, the writs for the House of Representatives can be issued within 10 days and the polling day, as well as the return of the writs, depends on the date of the issue of the writs. Theoretically, the writs can be issued on the Saturday following the Tuesday expiry date for the House of Representatives and the writs for the Senate can be issued on the following Saturday. Can the Minister give an undertaking to the Committee whether, under this legislation, it is entirely impossible for the elections to be held at separate times, on one Saturday following the other. 
I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert-' the question of the adoption of the report be deferred until after the Bill has been referred to a Select Committee for consideration, and its report has been presented, thereby giving interested organisations and members of the public an opportunity to participate in the formulation of the proposed law'. 
This amendment to the motion that the report of the Committee be adopted is currently being circulated to honourable senators. The purpose of my having moved this amendment at this stage is to reflect the debate that has taken place thus far. How often during the debate we have heard supporters of the Government's proposals say of the amendments of  Senator Wright:  'Yes, they have merit and have been well drafted, but we have not had time to consider them '. The purpose of my amendment is to enable them to have just that time. Time would have been available had the Government not ridden roughshod over Standing Orders with the support of the Australian Labor Party, contrary to what this Government did in 1974. 
I remind the Leader of the Government that what I am doing nowthat is, proposing that the matter be referred to a select committee- was supported by him in 1973 in the same situation. I quote from the debate at that time.  Senator Withers  had this to say about the Constitution Alteration (Simultaneous Elections) Bill 1973: 
This Bill is not all about whether the 2 Houses ought to come together for election on polling day; it is much deeper than that. I believe that the Senate would not be doing justice to itself if it voted at this stage either for or against the Bill. The Bill has very long term implications for the Senate and for the Constitution as such because it does not deal with something which will be temporary; it deals with something which will be written into the Constitution. 
I agree with those thoughts which were expressed so succinctly in 1973 by the present Leader of the Government in the Senate in 1973. I also believe that the people should be given a chance to participate in the formulation of pro- 0posals that go to them. 
Oh, no; this is an attempt to give the people an opportunity, which they have not had thus far, to participate in the formulation of the proposals that will go to them. Would the honourable senator deny them the right to do that? They have not had that right thus far. They did not even know about this proposal until last week. We did not know about it until last week. We did not know about the situation until - 
I think  Senator McLaren  might be sorry for having made that interjection if he knew where I was last week. The people of Australia have not had the opportunity to participate in the formulation of any proposals that are likely to be put to them. It should not be forgotten that the purpose of the proposals that are to go to the people is to change the ground rules upon which members of this Senate are elected and upon which their terms of office are established. In other words, the purpose of the proposals is to extend the term of office of every member of this Senate. What would the people say about that? Why should they not have the opportunity to say: Perhaps there is some merit in the proposal, but why should not the referendum be held simultaneously with the next half Senate election and thus save a great deal of money?'? 
We have heard the lawyers in the Senate arguing to an fro, some for and some against the proposal. There are other worthy constitutionalawyers outside the Senate who also have not had the opportunity to participate in the formulation of proposals designed to amend the Constitution. I put it to the Senate that, if it feels that it has not had an opportunity to discuss the proposals adequately or that it has not had an opportunity to consider fully the implications of the proposals or of the amendments put forward by 

 Senator Wright, it should agree to the amendment I have just moved. What will be the effect of the amendment? It will give interested organisations and members of the public an opportunity to participate in the formulation of the proposed law. I ask: What is wrong with that? 
-I also oppose the Bill, because it is not necessary. The situation clearly is that the Government cannot look to the Constitutional Convention and say that it recommended that there be a referendum on this matter. The Constitutional Convention simply stated a principle and expected that those people present, including those in State governments, would take that principle back and implement it. However, nothing has been said correctly in respect of this matter as it relates to Independents.  Senator Missen  says that the situation of Independents will not be affected. I submit that the situation of Independents will be affected vastly. This is an attempt to take away from Independents a right which the Government is now trying to enshrine in the Constitution for a group of people on an executive of a party. That is precisely what the Government is saying. It is saying that casual vacancies ought to be filled by that party, in effect, and that is what the wording of the proposal means. 
No. Let us deal with the death or retirement of an Independent and also with the question of those people who change parties in mid-stream during the term of a Senate. We have heard arguments from  Senator Chaney  in support of the previous proposition relating to simultaneous elections that there are switches and changes and splits in parties. If he could use that as an argument in respect of the previous proposition, why can he not use it as an argument on this occasion? Let us consider what would have happened to certain people if this proposition had been enforced earlier in the Federation. For example, let us take the case of  Senator Sir Simon  Fraser. He was a member of this Senate and the grandfather of the present Prime Minister, Malcolm Fraser, who is a sponsor of this Bill.  Senator Sir Simon  Fraser was a senator between 1 90 1 and 1 9 1 3. He was elected in 1 90 1 as a protectionist. He was reelected in 1906 as an anti-socialist and, as far as can be ascertained from the records, he was later a part of Deakin 's fusion group. Presumably the anti-socialists fused into the Deakin fusion group. What would have happened on that occasion? Under the proposed alteration, who would have replaced  Senator Sir Simon  Fraser? I have a long list of similar examples but because the gag has been drawn down I cannot give them to the Senate. However, there are quite a number of examples which are as ludicrous as that one when this proposition is applied. 
Again, what is the definition of 'party*? Can anybody say? Committee D, to which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack referred, could not say; nor has anybody suggested a definition of 'party' for the purpose of this amendment to the Constitution. After all, it is the first time that an attempt has been made to incorporate the word 'party' into the Constitution. For example, I ran on a group at the last election in order to get into the groupings under the provisions of the Electoral Act. If I die, is one of that group to replace me, or am I supposed to make some sort of political last will and testament? None of those matters have ever been explained. No one has been given the opportunity in relation to this Bill. It cannot be said that we should have known about it because the Constitutional Convention recommended that there should be an amendment to the Constitution. It did not, and I remind the members of the National Country Party that not only did it not do that but  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  firmly opposed an amendment to the Constitution thereby. 
No, I approve the principle, and I leave it to the good sense of the State Houses of Parliament, having regard to what has taken place over the last few years, to recognise the problems that have emerged because this principle has not been adopted. It is important to ensure that it is a principle and is taken forward, but it cannot be imported into the Constitution for reasons too long to go into during this truncated debate, which is only for 35 minutes. I believe that the Government and the Opposition are doing an injustice to people's intelligence, insulting people's intelligence, in thrusting the Bill through in this way. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does the Minister recall that in February last year I asked him questions about series 1 Australian savings bonds and pointed out that although they were designed for smaller investors and savers, wealthy financial companies and nominee companies were taking advantage of loopholes in the issue? Has the Minister seen the article in the  National Times  of 7 March which states that eight of Australia's leading corporate companies exploited loopholes in the issue and that one company actually subscribed $3. 4m to the issue by taking out the maximum bond issue of $100,000 in the name of the parent company and $3.3m in the names of 33 subsidiary companies? Is the Minister in a position to confirm or to state otherwise concerning the substance of the article? If it is true, does the Government intend to prevent similar back door manoeuvres in any future bond issue? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Did the Minister see today's report of the suggestion made by Professor L. W. Cox to the Law Reform Commission that material from aborted foetuses could be used in transplants? Did the Minister note that the academic stated that transplants of this nature would be effective, particularly using foetuses aborted by a possible mini-labour method, since the foetus could be delivered in completely sterile conditions and only just alive'? Will the Minister give an unequivocal guarantee that no federal government research funds have been or will be used in support of such projects, which would be abhorrent to most Australians? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs and refers to Polish born Australian citizens who fought for freedom during the last war and, in particular, those Polish ex-servicemen who fought side-by-side with Commonwealth forces and were awarded British campaign medals. Is the Minister in a position to respond to a request for the extension of repatriation benefits to those people, which request was submitted to him in a lengthy deputation to him last week by representatives of Polish exservicemen, the Rats of Tobruk Association and the National Returned Services League of Australia? 
It gives me pleasure to speak to the Address-in- Reply to  Her  Majesty's Speech. I take this opportunity of expressing with other honourable senators my appreciation of the fact that  Her  Majesty saw fit to open this session of Parliament and to deliver the Speech. Along with other honourable senators I also take this opportunity of expressing our gratitude to  Her  Majesty for coming to visit the people of 
Australia. I take objection, as other honourable senators have, to those persons who have denigrated the visit by carrying on demonstrations. I do not deny anybody the right to demonstrate but there are rimes and places to do so. I believe that the time was not the occasion of the royal visit. The Queen is doing a very good job. It is a difficult task. She is performing that task with dignity and, as some honourable senators have said, with courage. There is no question that debate ought to range over the most vital subject of what form of government there should be within Australia; whether it should have a constitutional monarch or whether it should be a republic. I emphasise the point that the proponents of the republican proposals did their cause no good by using the occasion of the Queen's visit to demonstrate against her and thus exhibit their own ignorance. Many of the demonstrations were directed against the Governor-General,  Sir John  Kerr. They were calling for his dismissal. I have found it extraordinary over the last 18 months that the Government has very rarely publicly entered into the lists in support ofthe Governor-General. When the Governor-General was confronted with the situation in November 1975 by the actions of the present Government- actions which I opposed- he had no alternative than to do the job that he did. The Government is now hiding behind his powers and not upholding them. It was the Government that created the situation and not the Governor-General. It is about time that the Government stopped letting him carry that baby. 
I take this opportunity to congratulate  Senator Austin  Lewis on his maiden speech.  His  background shows that he was not only capable in his profession but he was also a very good organiser and a man of great principle. He asked us not to treat his words lightly. We do not intend to do so if the speeches he makes in the future are similar to his maiden speech. He also said that he knew his Prime Minister. It is very handy to have somebody in the Senate now who knows the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Perhaps a few messages might be taken to the Prime Minister who is now sitting in his ivory tower in a corner into which he has been painted. I intend to deliver some of those messages during my speech on the Address-in-Reply. They will range over such matters as the portion in  Her  Majesty's Speech concerning the referendums. They will deal very seriously with the industrial policy of the Government and its lack of knowledge of the needs and requirements of registered industrial organisations. If it does not acquire some knowledge and implement the appropriate legislation a real intention will arise amongst the industrial organisations to opt out of the system of industrial arbitration in this country and to become deregistered. Already there is a large number of registered industrial organisations which would opt out and become de-registered tomorrow if there were general support within registered industrial organisations affiliated with the Australian Council of Trade Unions for that particular move. The Government's failure to understand the problems of registered industrial organisations may well bring that about. 
I remind the Senate that I asked a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Senator Durack)  on 23 February 1977. It dealt with the problems that arose from the last piece of legislation which this Government brought in and the problems which arose from a statement made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  which, if we are to take the word of the Australian Industrial Court, was untrue. Tomorrow, I propose to deal at some length with that statement and to ask whether it was a deliberate misleading of the House of Representatives and the Senate or whether it showed the ignorance of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in respect of industrial matters generally. I shall deal with the proposed Industrial Relations Bureau and the path of confrontation down which that will lead the Government. I propose to deal with the lack of action being taken in the health area- the opening of the gate to abortion in the Australian Capital Territory. I propose to deal in detail with the financial machinations of the companies that are attempting to impose their types of abortion on the Australian Capital Territory. I propose to deal with the subjects of refugees and foreign affairs and also the vital issue of the inability of many married people within Australia to obtain homes. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The first matter with which I wish to deal this afternoon is one of vital importance not only to the people of Canberra but to the whole of Australia. In addressing myself to this motion I feel it incumbent upon me to deal with the attempt being made by abortion profiteers to establish free standing abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory contrary to the expressed opinion of the members of the House of Representatives in a vote taken on the subject and contrary to the opinion expressed by residents of the A.C.T. in a referendum on the subject. The abortion question is a highly emotive one but it is a fundamental one. Unless it is decided on the question of the right to life this country will suffer the consequences. How many of us have tried to comfort and support a loved one mentally tortured and torn by the desire to be rid of the burden or shame caused by a wanted or unwanted intercourse? We have sat for many hours, inwardly confused, our souls wracked with anguish at the sight of such suffering. We have seen how that burden shared has become lighter, then tolerable, then acceptable and finally welcome. The thought goes through a person in such agony that 'though all men should desert you my faith will not grow less, so keep that single virtue of simple thankfulness'. 
We know how much a woman in such circumstances needs understanding and support. We also know, after that understanding and support has been proffered and accepted, the ultimate joy that those people experience in accepting that life that has been given to them. We know the response of those women who have come through such an experience, the response to their unborn child that 'you have sought me and found me and I will not let you go'. Nevertheless, a fundamental principle is involved. Given pregnancy support, advice and understanding the women concerned always come to the decision that the life to be preserved is a life which they have no right to destroy. In the Australian Capital Territory we now have the king of abortionists who lives in a place called  The Abbey  in Sydney, New South Wales. He is attempting to come in and exploit the situation in this city. 
Before I deal with that subject I turn my attention to the need for pregnancy support services to be widely advertised.  Mr President,  I draw your attention to the fact that some of the advice which is sometimes given by public servants is in the nature of what they call compromise or middle course advice. Again I rely on James McAuley who wrote: 'As between justice and injustice, as between life and death, the middle course leads to dishonour.' In this instance it would lead to national extinction. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that a document has been published by the Federal Department of Social Security entitled the  Help Book.  It advertises the service known as the Women's Centre Incorporated, the abortion counselling service. But the book says nothing about the Pregnancy Support Service which is operating in the Australian Capital Territory. Its members are doing a very good job. They are trained to do the job and they are doing it very well. The Service advertises regularly in the  Canberra Times  as follows: 
Pregnancy Support Service. If your pregnancy is causing problems we offer care, support and counselling. 
It gives a telephone number for people to contact. I have drawn this matter to the attention of the office of the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle. Her  office was not aware of this omission. I understand that steps are being taken urgently to remedy the situation. I look forward to the Minister making a definitive statement on the matter. I turn to the real problem which will confront the people of the Australian Capital Territory and to the insult which has just been given by the director of Population Services International (Australasia) Ltd to the Minister and to the Parliament. The Minister has publicly advised PSI that it should not proceed with plans to establish an abortion clinic in the Australian Capital Territory. Notwithstanding this, PSI has recruited and trained staff. Staff had a training session last Friday. According to PSI the service will be in business within 10 days, despite what has been said about this matter and the vote which was taken on a non-party basis in the other place and despite what has been expressed by the people of the Australian Capital Territory. I shall now detail to the Senate the financial machinations of these abortion profiteers. 
Population Services International (Australasia) Ltd appears to have been established in Sydney by a  Dr Geoffrey  Davis.  Dr Davis  is a director of and subscriber to Population Services International (Australasia) Ltd and a director of and shareholder in Merlin Le Fay Pty Ltd. Ironically, this abortion king lives in a place called The Abbey at 272 Johnson Street, Annandale, in Sydney. The Abbey is a very imposing building. It is a complex of what appears to be an old church, and old house and modern flats, one of which is occupied by Davis and his wife. The complex is a large and very valuable property. The Abbey is listed by the National Trust, which would like to buy it but cannot afford it. The complex has a frontage of about 80 metres and is surrounded by a stone wall about 5 metres high. 

 Dr Davis has an interesting sideline to abortion profiteering and living in the Abbey. He has an interest in and an affection for vintage cars. He owns a number of them, as well as several modern Maseratis. According to the  Australian  of January 1977, his latest acquisition is a vintage Mercedes Benz which the newspaper claims is probably worth at least $100,000 on the world market. Davis is listed in PSI material as PSI's Project Director (Australia) and as a member of PSI's international staff. On Tuesday, 8 March 1977, on the Australian Broadcasting Company radio program  Broadband,  Davis stated that PSI now had an annual cash flow of about $lm. PSI's investment in Australia must rank as one of the more successful foreign investments of the decade. The 1975-76 company return dated 18 
November 1976 lists only Davis as  chairman  and a  Dr Robert  Gabriel Gordon of 1 Hawthorn Avenue, Chatswood, and a Henriette Nerichow of Unit 8, 22 Manion Avenue, Rose Bay, as the other directors. Control of PSI is therefore in the hands of these 3 people, one of whom I have dealt with. 
Davis and Nerichow are also directors of another company, Merlin Le Fay Pty Ltd, which is the lessor of PS I 's Potts Point clinic. I come now to the Potts Point clinic, which again is in a very imposing building worth a great deal of money. Apparently the Potts Point clinic does abortions from conception to 3 months. Its service are directed towards working women and it functions on Mondays, Tuesdays and Fridays with morning and evening sessions. The lessor is, as I have mentioned, Merlin Le Fay Pty Ltd. It is in a large, old fashioned building that is in excellent condition. Later abortions- between 18 and 22 weeks- are carried out at an Arncliffe clinic. The Arncliffe clinic occupies a renovated bakery. It is situated in a shop-like corner building owned by the Rosslyn Private Hospital. An adjoining pathology unit is staffed by 4 salaried medical technologists who carry out tests on all women clients. The tests were worth $28 each, according to the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 3 February 1976; so that is old information. However, at that time they cost $28 and were billed to Medibank. With a client load of 200 to 300 a week, the cash flow for the unit is probably between $300,000 and $430,000 per annum for pathology services alone. The ownership of the unit is not known, but the 1975 report of the Rosslyn Private Hospital indicates that it carries an unsecured loan of $25,000 to Cell Services Pty Ltd. 
Directly opposite the Arncliffe clinic is the Rosslyn Private Hospital- a 2-storey building containing about 50 beds, most of which are taken up with abortion cases. In the year before PSI opened its Arncliffe clinic, the Rosslyn Private Hospital made a profit of $975; in the year during which the Arncliffe clinic became operational 1975- the Rosslyn Private Hospital made a profit of $103,552 prior to provision for taxation. According to the  Sydney Morning Herald  of the date I mentioned previously, there is opposite a private hospital where, by arrangement with the owners, PSI admits patients for later term abortions, at 12 to 20 weeks gestation. The connection is a little more complex than that, however. The Rosslyn Private Hospital owns the Arncliffe clinic and received $54,000 rent for it in 1975-76. A director of the Rosslyn 
Private Hospital, John Carmody, used to be a director of PSI. The Rosslyn Private Hospital received $156,000 in bed fees from PSI in 1975-76. If they are covered by private insurance, patients assign benefits to the Rosslyn Private Hospital. If they are not, PSI meets the difference. 
All clients visit the Rosslyn Private Hospital before going to the clinic. The Rosslyn Private Hospital has a nominal capital of $ 10,000 and an issued capital of $14 in fourteen $1 shares, all of which are held by 2 families- John and Kathleen Carmody, who is also the secretary, who live at the hospital, and  Dr Barry  and Rita Landa, who live at Bondi. The directors are the 2 men. John Carmody is a registered nurse. As mentioned earlier, the hospital experienced good fortune in 1975, with a profit of $58,945 after providing for income tax, compared with a profit of only $975 in 1974. Fees received jumped from $133,696 in 1 974 to $494,376 in 1 975. Expenses in relation to salaries, wages and sub-contractors went from $80,830 to $247,225. Interestingly enough, there appears to be a small conflict between Population Services International (Australasia) and the Preterm Foundation and the more ideologically motivated abortion supporters. Preterm claims to limit its abortions to a 10-week term. That is only a claim and is not substantiated.  Dr Davis  and PSI are studiously ignored by the ideologically motivated Women's Abortion Alliance Coalition and its journal. The Abortion Counselling Service in the Australian Capital Territory, which I mentioned before, is apparently linked with Preterm, and not with PSI in Sydney and Wainer 's Fertility Control Clinic in Melbourne. The PSI move into Canberra was preceded by tentative and separate moves by Preterm. An Abortion Counselling Service spokesman has criticised PSI for lack of counselling but described  Dr Davis  as 'a good abortionist' and indicated that the Abortion Counselling Service could make up for the lack of counselling. That was stated in the  Canberra Times  of 12 March 1977. This indicates that the Abortion Counselling Service is prepared to give reluctant endorsement to PSI in Canberra. I remind you,  Mr President  and the Senate, that this is the case despite statements that have been made by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  despite the votes that have been taken in the House of Representatives on this subject and despite the referendum that was held in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Interestingly enough, the PSI liaison officer and education officer is a person called  Mrs Mary  McNish. She has written to baby health clinics advising of PSI services. During the publicity surrounding the PSI move into Canberra she was interviewed at least twice on local radio in Canberra.  Mrs McNish  has an active track record of involvement in a number of causes, including anti-war, anti-draft, anti-censorship and antiracist organisations. She is a foundation member of the Penal Reform Council, a member of the Council for Civil Liberties and was the national and New South Wales secretary of the Australia Party.  Her  most spectacular activity, however, involved being arrested in early 1972 for exhibiting and selling an obscene publication outside Darlinghurst Court. The publication was called Thorunka. Wendy Bacon and John Cox were fined and put on good behaviour bonds for selling it. However,  Mrs McNish  wanted to associate herself with the incident because as she said: 
I am opposed to censorship . . . I do not believe that pornography should be the prerogative of the rich . . . I do not believe that pornography is of necessity obscene ... If pornography stimulates people to a greater sexual satisfaction, good on it . . . 
That quotation was taken from pages 4 to 5 of  Reform,  Australia Party, edition 5/72 of 6 March 1972. She is the liaison officer and education officer of the clinic that is being established in the Australian Capital Territory. It is being established, mind you,  Mr President,  with staff recruited through the Commonwealth Employment Service. I do not blame the Commonwealth Employment Service because, as I understand the situation, the clinic misrepresented its true purpose to the Service. 
Items of interest in the 1976 accounts of PSI include a $15,600 administration fee paid to Miss Nerichow one of the directors and $8,204 bad debts. But it was stated that for the next year: 
The directors do not consider it necessary to create a provision for doubtful debts in view of the introduction of the Medibank scheme. 
The accounts included also $188,420 medical professional fees, which is $159,530 over the figure for the previous year, $38,168 rent for the Potts Point clinic, $54,000 rent for the Arncliffe clinic and $156,000 rent for the Rosslyn Private Hospital beds. In summary, in 1976  Dr Davisthis  is the abortion king attempting to establish here in the Australian Capital Territory- shared in the $188,420 medical fees and the $38,168 rent for the Potts Point clinic. Miss Nerichow the second director, benefited from an administration fee and a share of the rent for the Potts Point clinic.  Mr Carmody,  who is the other effective director, shared in the increased prosperity of the Rosslyn Private Hospital which, in turn, benefited also from the rent paid to the Arncliffe clinic. Underlying all of the financial transactions is the security offered by Medibank which has now prompted the directors of PSI not to bother with a provision for doubtful debts. PSI is a 'nonprofit' organisation and therefore does not pay income tax or a dividend. However, those involved with PSI do not appear to be financially disadvantaged. 
I have one further item which I am sure will interest the Senate and which will throw more light on the real purpose of these abortion profiteers. A statement was made by  Dr Davis,  the project director of Population Services International (Australasia), which appeared in the  Canberra Times  this morning and in which he estimated that 140 to ISO abortions a week would be carried out in Canberra. In the same article a demographer stated that live births in Canberra averaged about 90 a week. The project director of Population Services International went on to state that the districts of Canberra, southern New South Wales and northern Victoria would be involved in the estimate of 140 to 150 abortions. But if we take a very generous estimate of live births in that area, what is being said by these people is that they will cash in and make a profit from abortion on demand and bump up the number of abortions over the number of live births in this area of Australia. What were these people seeking? They sought funds from the First National City Bank in the United States of America to establish this clinic. They have plenty of funds themselves. I have a letter- I will table it if necessary- addressed to a  Mr Hal  Crow and  Mr Philip  D. Harvey,  President  of Population Services International, 110 East 59th Street, New York. The letter is from the Planned Parenthood-World Population people in Seventh Avenue, New York. It reads: 
Dear Hal and Phil: 
Thank you for your letter of September 21,1976. 
We are pleased to hear that Canberra, Australia appears to be the next likely city for the PSI/Australasia program development. 
Everything that you outlined about  Dr Davis  and the clinic plans appears to fall within the guidelines for a PPFA abortion loan. The abortion law in Australia is clear and should present no problem to First National City Bank. The fact that Australia is a hard currency country should simplify the loan process considerably. 
I will be happy to work with you on developing a formal program application for Australia clinic. With luck this will proceed more easily than the Holland project. 
Sincerely, 
FRANCINE S. STEIN 
Administrator, Abortion Loan and Technical Assistance Program 
A copy of that letter was sent to  Mr Jack  Hood Vaughn of the First National City Bank. 
Yes. 
Last night I indicated 4 or 5 matters to which I wished to address myself. Prior to the luncheon adjournment today I had gone through one and a half of those matters, and I know that in another arena they had gone through two and now have gone through four. With the time available to me, I have no hope of going through the other 3 matters in the detail which I would desire. Before lunch I had mentioned that the Government was embarking on policies which were playing into the hands of pro-communist Left operators within the trade union movement and that if it sustained its policies and continued to pursue those policies and attitudes the inevitable result would be a deterioration in the system of conciliation and arbitration in Australia. I referred to a question which I asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  on 23 February in respect of a statement made by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  on 1 June 1976. In my question I adverted to the fact that the Minister had quite clearly stated to the House that unions need not amend their rules. In his speech on 1 July the Minister said: 
I wish to inform honourable members that organisations need not move to give effect to that requirement by that date - 
That requirement was the requirement of the provisions I mentioned prior to lunch and the date was 13 November 1976-  unless, of course, they wish to do so. lt is the Government's intention to have enacted before that date legislation to give effect to the outcome of its current examination of this issue which I mentioned a moment ago. 
I have pointed out that, in view of the decision of the Australian Industrial Court on 23 December, the Minister's statement has been proven to be quite false, totally untrue and misleading. 
I refer to decision B. No. 55 of 1976, made on 23 December 1976. That decision showed that the Minister's statement to the House was untrue and misleading, and that those who had placed their faith in his assurances, and indeed the assurances which had been given  Mr Clyde  Cameron, his predecessor in the previous Government, had been placed in an absolutely impossible position where now they could have invalid rules affecting over one million trade unionists. The net result is that those unions which had either amended or not amended their rules since 13 November 1974 now find themselves in an impossible position. Any one of those unions right across the spectrumwe are not involved in left, right and centre now; we are involved in questions affecting the administration of organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act- could find themselves and their rules under challenge. 

 -Unfortunately, Mr President, time will not permit me to do so. 
If I were given an extension of time I should be happy to do so. But the position is simply that the amendments to section 133 inserted into the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in 1973 require certain alterations to be made to rules. At that time the Minister stated clearly in the House and also to individual organisations that they had 3 years in which to bring their rules into conformity with those provisions to which my question referred. The present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations reiterated that statement on 1 June last year. However, the decision in the case previously referred to stated that that was not so but that in fact, in respect of that provision, the unions had only 12 months in which to bring their rules into conformity; that is to say, they had to do so by 13 November 1974. Therefore, those unions which have sought to bring their rules into conformity since that date or other unions which have accepted the guarantee of the 
Minister that they need not do so now find themselves in a position in which they could have rules on which they can be challenged. 
This position has been clear to the Minister since 23 December 1976 and, as far as I am aware, the Minister has done nothing about it. Yet we are dealing with over one million unionists. We are dealing with organisations in control of millions and millions of dollars of members ' money. I put it to the Government that if that situation had occurred and had affected business organisations the Government would have introduced an amending Bill the following week or at least the first week of the session of Parliament. Yet we cannot even get an answer to a simple question that was posed to the Minister by me on 23 February 1977. 1 am a member of the national council of the third largest union in Australia and, I might say, I have just contested the presidency of a union which covers the largest group of workers in Tasmania. The election was by secret postal ballot of the rank and file and the votes are currently being counted. The scrutineers say I am winning by six to one. It appears to me that the Government just is not interested in the integrity of organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. With all the Government statements about the possible need for more rigid deregistration procedures as a disciplinary threat to unions, it could fall flat on its face. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I mentioned that I had upheld the principles of conciliation and arbitration and of the registration of industrial organisations throughout the 20 years of my trade union life. I still uphold those principles. But we are not getting any encouragement or support for registered industrial organisations from the Government if this is to be its attitude. Of course, it knows as well as we do that the members of an individual union which decides to become unregistered are immediately the prey of other registered industrial organisations. That is why the Government knows that the deregistration threat at the present moment is a real threat to individually registered industrial organisations. But what if the Australian Council of Trade Unions were to do what the British Trade Union Congress and the American Federation of Labor Congress of Industrial Organisations do and act as the arbiter in demarcation and membership disputes? What if the ACTU, by agreement with all of its affiliates, were to be the protector of the field of coverage of affiliated unions and not the Industrial Court? There would then be very little to keep organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. As I mentioned before the suspension of the sitting for lunch, the policy of a specific group of unions within the trade union movement is to opt out of registration under the Act. At the present moment the Government's viewpoint and policy are forcing others to consider such action. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I remind the Minister of the question that I asked him almost a month ago, on 23 February 1977, concerning the fact that the decision of the Australian Industrial Court on 23 December 1976 showed assurances given by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations on 1 June 1 976 to have been absolutely worthless and contrary to fact. Does the Minister recall that question and the fact that as a result of those assurances and those given by the Minister's predecessor,  Mr Cameron,  many unions representing over 1 million workers could find their rules open to challenge? Does he regard the misleading of Parliament in such important questions by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations as a serious matter deserving an explanation? If so, when can I expect a reply? What action is being taken by the Parliament to remedy the situation resulting from the Court's interpretation of section 133(1) (a) before its repeal and the ineffectiveness of the Government's own legislation in November of last year? 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: In view of the Queensland National Party decision to oppose the first two of the referenda, which decision together with the opposition of State Liberal parliamentarians in Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania and a large number of Labor supporters, will ensure the defeat of the referenda, is there any truth in the current rumour that the Prime Minister is considering not proceeding with the referenda, thus saving a considerable amount of the taxpayers' money and devoting it to more worthy causes? 
I rise to point out to the Senate that concern should be expressed at the failure of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to consider seriously questions from registered industrial organisations and to answer to the fact that he misled the House of Representatives on 1 June 1976 in respect to the provisions for amending the rules of registered industrial organisations. The Government Ministers particularly involved in industrial matters, that is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  seem to follow advice which is sadly lacking in this most important area. Last week, during the Address-in-Reply debate, I was about to warn the Government that if it proceeds with proposed legislation for the establishment of an Industrial Relations Bureau and with the proposed amendment to the Trade Practices Act, namely the new section 45D, it is simply buying a fight with the whole of the trade union movement when consultations about these matters should take place. 
I shall return to the fact that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has failed to explain to the Senate or the House of Representatives his misleading of the Parliament on 1 June last year. I refer again to the question I asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs,  Senator Durack,  on 25 February 1977. I remind the Senate that this is a matter which affects a large number and broad range of unions and registered industrial organisations throughout 
Australia. It affects all those organisations which may or may not have changed their rules since  1 3  November  1974  to conform with the relevant Cameron amendments of  1973.  There is a large group of unions in that category. Those unions which cover in excess of one million workers could have their rules challenged by virtue of the fact that they place faith in the assurances of the Minister or his predecessor. This does not involve only trade unionists. If the Government is not interested in trade unionists it should think about the union funds that are involved- the funds of those unions whose rules could be under challenge. Yet, since  23  December  1976,  the Minister has known that according to the Australian Industrial Court decision his statements have been proven to be contrary to fact. This is a serious situation. This is a matter of concern in my own organisation which has  167 000  members throughout Australia. I know that in a number of other organisations it is also a matter of concern. We are dealing with a large number of members of trade unions throughout Australia. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 

 - Mr President, the reason I rose to speak was to indicate that the  2  Ministers so vitally responsible in the industrial relations area, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the Attorney-General, have failed in their task. I know from what  Senator Durack,  the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, has said that  Senator Durack  believes that  Mr Street  did not mislead the House. But he admitted that if the judgment of the Court was correct, what  Mr Street  said was not in accordance with the facts. I do not know what the definition of the term 'misleading the House' is, but under those circumstances he misled not only the House, but also all those unionists who hang on his very word and who took his advice and the advice of the previous Minister,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, in respect of that matter. 
I do not want to engage in political point scoring. In fact I did not raise this matter until  2  months after the decision of the Court. It was felt by me and by others that within that time, reasonably, the Minister would have been able to deal with the matter, to study the judgment and to make recommendations to Cabinet to remedy by legislation the situation created. However, we did not see that. On  23  February  1977  I asked my first question about the matter. Then I waited for a month and there was no answer given to me in respect of the matter. I think that is shameful. 
I remind the Senate that were this matter affecting business organisations the Government would act, of course, but as it is affecting registered industrial organisations the Government thinks that the matter has some low rating on its list of priorities. I thought that the Government well understood that it needed registered industrial organisations and a reasonable approach by them to assist in getting this country out of the mess in which we find ourselves. But, as I mentioned, the Government is playing into the hands of those registered industrial organisations of the extreme left which desire to opt out of registration under the Act. They are doing so because the Government is making it almost impossible for a large number of other unions to operate because of its failure to recognise current problems and to consult with registered industrial organisations about them. 
I turn now to the Attorney-General. On  25  August last year I wrote a letter to him after giving a great deal of thought to what was required to be done about the Act. I included in my letter a suggestion that action should be taken to amend section  171c  of the Act which enables the Court to make orders in respect of consequences of invalidities. I made out a case for that matter and said that the case for repeal of section  171c  does not depend and never has depended upon the view that it is unconstitutional. It is rather that an industrial court cannot be the body to which unionists are expected to resort for relief against breaches of rules, that is to say under sections  141, 140  and  143,  and at the same time have licence to validate breaches of rules. I would have thought that that would have been accepted by any person interested in natural justice. I said that it is the existence and exercise of section  171c  more than any other factor which has destroyed the confidence of unionists in the Court and which inevitably will destroy their confidence in any court in which that same or similar power is vested. 

 Senator Button was speaking for a wide section of union opinion in the industrial labour movement when he said in the Senate on  3  June 
1976: 
There is a decline in respect in industrial circles Tor the Industrial Court. There is confusion about its judgments. There is no understanding of where it is going. There is no confidence in approaching that Court seeking justice in an industrial situation not only because of political reasons- it has been a political court in the past- but also because of the calibre of the work done in that Court because it does not consist of specialists in this very difficult and important jurisdiction. 
-He was speaking as to the Court. Previously,  Senator Button,  on  2  March  1 976,  as reported at pages  3 1 5  and  3 1 6  of  Hansard,  had dealt with the immediate occasion for these remarks, namely, the judgment of the court in proceedings under section  171c  in the Hospital Employees' case on  27  June  1975.  But similar dismay was caused in the decision of a strong and responsible bench in  Allen and Ford versus Laragy and Others  on  7  August  1975  where the Court defeated an application for an order under section  141  by validating under section  1 7 1 c  the very breach of rules complained of. I again say that surely the Industrial Court should not be the body to which unionists are expected to resort for relief against breaches of rules and at the same time have licence to validate the breaches of rules complained of. The present and continuing position is that for many unionists it is regarded as worse than useless to take serious breaches of rules to the Court. For some unions the rule of law has ceased to apply to the administration of unions. 
It is appreciated that some mode of special validation will be required in some cases although to a limited extent. This can be met by provision of a simple re-registration procedure. I have made this point previously in the Senate but I made it to the Attorney-General specifically by letter on  26  August last year. A draft of a proposed new section  139a  was prepared. I believe it was prepared in the interests of the view that trade unions ought to determine their own mode of operation and method of self government consistent with their administrative requirements and the wishes of their rank and file and not have some form of reconstruction superimposed upon them by a court which has not the understanding of the history of the organisation or the wishes of the rank and file. Theoretically we could have a situation where the rank and file have determined the rules under which they wish to operate, where votes have been taken under plebiscite rules, and still the Court could superimpose, under section  17  Id a scheme of reconstruction that is not consistent with the wishes of the members. 
Section  171c  as originally drafted by  Mr Justice  Sweeney and which was set out in the appendix to his report was itself administrative in character although it was to be exercised by the Court and was only later given the quality of an explicitly judicial function in the redraft by  Mr Comans  when preparing the Conciliation and Arbitration (Organisations) Bill of  1974.  I do not wish to go through the whole of the letter which I wrote to the Attorney-General on that occasion which, among other things, dealt with section  141.  While I am talking about section  1 4 1  I point out that I raised the question of subsections  (2)  and  (3)  of section  141  in my letter to the Attorney-General. My letter was dated  26  August  1976  and I received a reply on  26  January  1977  which stated: 
I refer to your representations concerning amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1 904 as amended. 
You will recall that sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 141 were inserted in the Act when the High Court found that the Industrial Court did not have the power to freeze funds involved in a Union amalgamation. 

 Mr President, and members of the Senate, that is just not true. The facts of the matter are that the High Court decision which was referred to by the Attorney-General was brought down subsequent to the amendments to sub-section  (2)  and  (3)  of section  141.  We have the first law officer of the Crown advising a member of the Parliament that an amendment to one of the principal Acts of this Parliament took place because of" a decision of the High Court, when in fact, that decision of the High Court was taken subsequent to and not preceding the amendments to the Act. I feel that that statement calls for some explanation. How can the first law officer of the Crown so misadvise a member of the Parliament? In my own simple way but with some experience of trade union administration I sought to put some views to the Attorney-General. He replied in a single page letter to which, on  9  February, I replied as follows: 
I refer to your letter of 26 January 1977, concerning the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I was surprised to read in your letter that you seemed to be under the impression that sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 141 were inserted in the Act when the High  Court  found that the Industrial Court did not have the power to freeze funds involved in a union amalgamation. 
The decision in that case was brought down on 7 June 1972, 5 days after Act No. 37 of 1972 was assented to, and months after the Government had decided to proceed to amend that particular section. 
Irrespective of that, your letter failed to deal with the arguments contained in my letter dated 26 August 1976, concerning sections 171D, new section 139a, sub-sections (2) and ( 3 ) of section 1 4 1 and failed to mention section 171c. 
I would be obliged to receive a considered reply to my letter of 26 August 1976. 
That letter was written to the Attorney-General on  9  February  1977.  Presumably, because of the time which has elapsed, it has ended up in some too-hard basket in the Attorney-General's Department. Here we have  2  senior Ministers of the Government giving incorrect advice to me and to the trade union movement- I will not use the word misleading because the Minister objects to that- about matters which are of great concern to the trade union movement as a whole and particularly to registered industrial organisations. One of the main reasons the Government has found itself to be in the mess it is in, as far as amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are concerned, is that it has failed to consult with registered industrial organisations. It has relied on peak councils, none of which are registered industrial organisations. Of course, the Government must get the opinion of peak councils but it really does not even have the opinion of peak councils because we heard from those councils what happened as far as consultation was concerned about the previous amendment. The secretary of the Department simply telephoned the officers of the peak councils and asked them what they thought about the matter and told them that the amendment would be coming in. That is not consultation. 
In any event, when one is amending an Act which affects any organisation, surely that organisation has the right to be consulted. This is not a secret society. Unions have been registered for over 50 years. Each and every organisation is entitled to know from the Government what amendments are proposed to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, what provisions are sought to be inserted, how they are to be worded and what effect they will have on the administration and democratic functioning of the registered industrial organisations. I again say that the Government should not act as a secret society. Furthermore, I believe that if incorrect advice has been given to the Minister from the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, regard should be had to that fact. In considering amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which affect the registration of industrial organisations, surely the Government should also consult, for example, the registrar. The registrar is the man who should have knowledge of the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. He is in close and regular contact with officers of registered industrial organisations. 
I have taken longer than I thought I would on that matter. I was going to deal with the attempt of the Government to amend the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. I was going to detail at some length the objections which I certainly have to those proposals. But I believe that a debate on the first reading of a Bill is not the occasion when one should do that. That should be done when the Bill is coming forward. I hope the Government sees the light and withdraws those provisions before we have to battle them out here. They will not only be battled out here but also elsewhere. They are draconian provisions. They will set the whole of the trade union movement in Australia against the Government. That is not a situation which I desire. In fact, I have sought to avert that situation over the period that I have been a trade union official. I do not believe that the trade practices legislation is an appropriate vehicle to cover the activities of trade unions. It can be said and has been said that certainly there needs to be discipline and coordination in industrial affairs so that there is not anarchy, and so that innocent people are not hurt or thrown out of work. The time appears to be coming when the Government, in consideration of not proceeding with these provisions, could request the trade union movement to uphold and maintain the provisions for settling industrial disputes. 
For many years there have been written into the rules of registered industrial organisations provisions for the implementation of the objects of the organisations and the disciplining of members so that a member of the organisation cannot take action which is in the nature of anarchy and affects drastically the other members. Naturally, there is very broad freedom within individual unions in this respect but each registered industrial organisation has such rules. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has rules for the conduct and control of industrial disputes and the ideal situation would be for the ACTU to be left to uphold and enforce its own rules, if necessary by the threat of expulsion of affiliated unions which do not uphold those rules. But surely at this time, even under this Government, the sorts of measures we are debating are not necessary and I believe that they will never be necessary. Circumstances could arise in which other legislation could well be amended but the minute we bring into operation this sort of provision, which is aimed at even legitimate strike activity, you will have the whole of the trade union movement on top of you. 
The reason for speaking today is to appeal to the Government not to proceed in this way. I appeal to it to heed the views that are expressed to it from time to time by the majority of the trade union movement and I request the Government when considering amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act or to other Acts which affect registered industrial organisations not to do it in a secret society fashion, but to have full and open discussions with all registered industrial organisations so that their views and the views of their members through them can be put to the Government. If the Government did that, it would not fall into the traps into which it has fallen as a result of bad advice that apparently has been given. I again request the Minister to take my comments to the Ministers concerned. I would be obliged to have a considered reply to my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in relation to action to be taken to remedy the current situation, and a considered and factual reply to my letter to the Attorney-General of 26 August 1976. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources. By way of preface to my question, which is about water resources, I understand that in early 1976 the Minister for National Resources advised that the previously agreed procedure for the evaluation of water projects had now become inoperative. Has the Government come up with an alternative procedure of evaluation and is the Minister aware that lack of action by the Government on this matter is holding up important projects, such as the one relating to the Jordan River in Tasmania? If no alternative evaluation procedure has been determined, will the Minister undertake to consult urgently with his colleague to see whether some progress can be made in this vital aspect of Australian resources? 
-We are dealing with the Apple and Pear Stabilization Amendment Bill, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Amendment Bill and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Amendment Bill. The Government had before it a recommendation by the Industries Assistance Commission for the payment of $1 a box for apples for the 1977 export season. The current legislation is to extend the existing stabilisation scheme for the export of apples and pears during the 1 977 season. It is not my purpose to canvass all the issues involved in providing support for the fruit growing industry or, more importantly, for the decentralised areas. All of the issues involved in that have been canvassed at length during the debate in this chamber, as well as the debate in the other place previously. No one has done so more forcibly that  Senator Wright.  If I were to canvass those issues I would only be repeating what has been said already. It is my intention only to declare myself as to where my vote will be on this particular subject. 
I have considered both the amendment proposed by  Senator Gietzelt  and the amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Wright.  Having attended meetings of fruit growers, I believe that the recommendations of the IAC are absolutely untenable if consideration is given to the need, as  Senator Wright  put is, to assist people to work in these decentralised areas. The Bills only continue the existing stabilisation scheme. That is not satisfactory. Even taking into account the increase in the cost of living, that is not satisfactory. One or the other of the amendments should be supported. The question is: Which one should be supported and which has the most chance of giving benefit to the people in the fruit growing industry. 
My concern with the proposal put forward by  Senator Gietzelt  is that if it were carried it would be used simply as a political football; it would delay the scheme and could even jeopardise it. I say that because already supporters of the fruit growers within the Liberal-National Country Party coalition Government have cast doubt upon the genuineness of that type of amendment. I am not making a judgment about its genuineness one way or the other. But I point to the fact that supporters of the fruit growers within the Government have pointed out that such an amendment is not genuine. I wish to quote what was said by one of the supporters,  Mr Hodgman,  the honourable member for Denison in another place. He said, as reported in the House of Representatives  Hansard  on 17 March 1977: 
He - 
That is the honourable member for Blaxland- is not the only member of the Opposition who claims to be a friend of primary industry.  Senator Gietzelt,  the Opposition spokesman on primary industry matters in the Senate, made a magnificent contribution to the welfare of the fruit industry when last year he said that the Opposition would not oppose the legislation- not that it supported it, but that it would not oppose it- then went on to say that this 'support is not unequivocal, and not without some basis of criticism'. Then he castigated the Fraser Government for not in strict terms acting on the recommendations of the IAC which was that a subsidy of $ 1 a box be paid. 
The point is that within the Government there are those who are very strongly in support of a fair deal for the fruit growers, a fair deal being that they will continue to be able to live in the decentralised areas and not be thrown into the ranks of the unemployed in the large cities. But if the amendment moved by  Senator Gietzelt  were carried, many of these supporters would be taunted by their colleagues and the issue would become a political football. Thus it is my intention to support the emendment foreshadowed by  Senator Wright  which states: 
At end of motion add ', but the Senate is of the opinion that- 
the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission report failed to take into account the necessity of assisting the industry to develop nonEuropean markets; and 
the industry should be assisted to a level of not less than three dollars per case'. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, I will support that amendment when it is moved. In doing so I hope that the Government will take note of the extensive feeling that has been expressed in support of the fruit growers in the decentralised areas, that it will take heed of the comments that have been made and come forward with a further proposal for assistance to the fruit growers. 
Does the Minister for Administrative Services recall that in the interests of saving untold millions of taxpayers' money a previous Liberal-National Country Party Government in 1965, under a most distinguished leader, pulped the Yes and No cases and cancelled the proposed nexus referendum which was faced with certain defeat? What is the last date available to the Government to cancel the current referendum? 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to a question which I asked him on 23 February 1977 and to a further question on the same subject I asked on 22 March 1977 which related to assurances given by  Mr Street  and by  Mr Cameron  to unions concerning amendments to rules. Such assurances were found to be completely worthless by a decision of the Australian Industrial Court 4 months ago on 23 December 1976. On 22 March 1977 the Minister promised to expedite an answer. Can the Minister please now advise what action the Government will take to set right the situation caused by the assurances given by the Government? 
I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The Government's industrial relations policy and performance present obstacles to the achievement of the cooperative and co-ordinated approach required to overcome the economic problems confronting the nation '. 
The motion before the chair concerns probably one of the greatest problems that faces this country internally at this point of time. The motion presupposes that everybody is seized of the view that there is a need for a co-operative and coordinated approach to overcome the economic problems confronting the nation. I have a fist full of statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and every Minister of the present Government to that effect. I am sure there is no need to canvass that proposition. I think we all should be able to subscribe to the view that there is a need for a co-operative and co-ordinated approach to overcome the economic problems confronting the nation. I turn to  the first part of the motion which states that the Government's industrial relations policy and performance are presenting obstacles to the achievement of that co-operation which everybody concedes is required. 
I am putting forward this motion because it seems to be the belief of the Prime Minister and of certain other Ministers that the Government's industrial relations policy has broad acceptance not only by the community but also by certain people within the trade union movement. Nothing could be further from the truth. I refer to the statement made by the Prime Minister on the Monday after Easter when he said words to the effect that extremist left wing trade union officials would condemn the Government's industrial relations policy but that was only to be expected. I have risen today to advise you,  Mr President,  and the Senate that the industrial relations policy of the Government is opposed not only by a handful of extremist left wing union officials but also by the broad moderate elements within the trade union movement, specifically as the policy relates to amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and the Trade Practices Act. I believe it is necessary for that statement to be made prior to the Government's solidifying its attitude in respect of the proposed industrial relations bureau and amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Quite a number of people within the trade union movement are prepared to make sacrifices to ensure co-operation and co-ordination to overcome the economic problems that confront the nation. I should like to detail the decision taken by the Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council on 14 April 1977 concerning the Premiers Conference proposals- the wage claims and price increases pause. It reads: 
The proposal of the Premiers Conference comes at a time when all sections of the community recognise that a continuation of raging inflation and chronic unemployment will put Australia in a very bad way within months. Faced with a continuance of double figure inflation and record unemployment, some dramatic action is required to reverse the situation before it is too late. 
The proposal unanimously endorsed by all State Governments and the Federal Government for a short-term pause in wage claims and price increases could be just the thing to break the psychology of inflation if it receives general support from organisations and individuals within the community. 
The  President  of the ACTU has spoken of the psychology of inflation and the need for it to be overcome as a prerequisite to reining-in inflation and stimulating employment. 
Besides attacking the psychology of inflation the proposals if successful must have direct influence on the next Consumer Price Index figures which are a gauge of inflation. 
Obviously, if prices are held down then the Consumer Price Index is held down and inflation with it. The proposals cannot be regarded as a panacea for the problems besetting the economy- far from it. Overseas experience seems to indicate that compulsory long-term wage /price freezes result in much bigger wage and price explosions at the re-entry point. 
On the other hand a short term wage claim and prices increase pause could be just the circuit breaker needed to break the vicious circle of inflation. 
Such a prospect would appeal to rank and file trade unionists rather than the mad scrambling for confetti money wage increases immediately eroded by taxes and made useless by higher price rises. 
However, the Council went on: 
Greater detail is required on the proposal- particularly what action Governments propose to curtail their own taxes and charges. 
Of course that is why the conference is required. The Council continued: 
Furthermore, what action is proposed to counter and expose any price increase made during the period of the Premiers' Conference proposal. 
Again a subject for a conference relating to price surveillance. The decision continued: 
The success of the proposal relies on its acceptance by business and the Trade Union Movement and Governments. This is the time for a co-ordinated attack on inflation which seriously diminishes the purchasing power of workers and causes unemployment. 
The Council made this very important point: 
Such a co-ordinated attack requires responsible disciplined co-operation between and within each of the three groups. 
We call on the Federal Government as a mark of its faith in the Premiers' Conference proposal which presupposes a responsible and disciplined approach by central Trade Union and Business/Employer organisations to withdraw the proposed amendments to the Restrictive Trade Practices Act and the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The Council stated that these proposals- that is the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act proposed by the Government- would prevent unions from acting in a united manner. The Council stated that the proposals were an invitation to irresponsibility and anarchy and would provide loopholes for workers to opt out of their responsibilities for the overall actions of their unions. The Council went on: 
In these circumstances and on present knowledge and granted that wages have been recently adjusted by the National Wage Decision or will soon be adjusted by State Decisions we believe the Premiers Conference Proposal would appeal to rank and file unionists and the community and worth a trial in the best interests of the nation. 
It will be seen that the Council realised that there needed to be a co-ordinated attempt but it also declared that the proposals of the Commonwealth Government to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were an invitation to irresponsibility and anarchy. 
Yes that is right. Of course, there is need for the conference for those particular points to come out. The Council declared that the Government's proposals to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were an invitation to irresponsibility and anarchy. In a calm and dispassionate way I wish to prove that to you,  Mr President,  to the Senate and hopefully to the Government. 
Firstly, industrial relations in Australia are best served by the encouragement of effective, responsible trade unions working in the best interests of their members and in the encouragement of the members to fully participate in union affairs. Secondly, the power of trade unions to contribute effectively and responsibly to orderly industrial progress depends on the co-ordinated and disciplined action of their members. Thirdly, for many years this has been recognised. The rules of individual trade unions registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act have contained self-disciplinary provisions. Likewise, a central trade union organisation such as the Australian Council of Trade Unions and State Labour Councils have had rules for the conduct and control of industrial disputes with their own internal disciplinary procedures. These procedures are designed and are necessary to achieve the objects of the unions in a united and co-ordinated manner with the least possible disruption. 
Over the past few years a combination of factors has led to a decline in responsible unionism on the part of some unions. Australia has witnessed the organised attempts by the procommunist Left to create anarchy, to disregard the effects of irresponsible industrial action on other workers in the community, to flout ACTU rules for the conduct and control of industrial disputes and to turn the trade union movement into a political battering ram by the abuse of the strike weapon for political purposes. Failure to uphold the ACTU and Labour Council disputes rules has itself contributed to the belief of some unions that they can please themselves as to what action they take without regard to the consequences to themselves as ACTU affiliates or to members of other unions. 
The sense of anarchy is also fostered by those union officials who, rather than oppose the push for political strikes, take the easy way out by telling their members that it is up to each individual whether he joins the strike, an attitude that is encouraged by the Government's own legislation. Such weakness attacks the very foundation of the legitimate strike weapon and the trade union movement itself which relies for effectiveness on the precepts 'unity of strength' and 'united we stand; divided we fall'. Encouragement to union members to shed collective responsibility for the actions of the unions as a whole and hide behind their so-called individual rights' leads to anarchy and allows the organised pro-communists to use their unions and the union movement as a whole for their own domestic and international purposes. 
As is often the case, the backlash to that situation is an attack, not on the cause of the problem, but on the institution of unionism itself. The Federal Government has stated that its Bill to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act will enforce obligations and protect individual rights. Nothing could be further from the truth. The proposed legislation is an invitation to irresponsibility. Orderly industrial progress requires that workers meet their obligations to themselves and their fellow workers by joining and participating in the affairs of their appropriate union to ensure that it plays a responsible and constructive role. Yet the Bill to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the IR Bill in shorthand terms, provides loopholes for a worker to opt out of those obligations. Under current legislation the individual right of a proven conscientious objector covered by an award with a preference clause is tested by the payment to Consolidated Revenue of an amount equivalent to union fees, but the proposed legislation would do away with that responsible test which is called the hippocket test. The Bill provides a loophole for individual members to opt out of any industrial action as denned broadly in clause 3 of the Bill. The definition of 'industrial action' in clause 3 states: 
the performance of work in a manner different from that in which it is customarily performed, or the adoption of a practice in relation to work, the result of which is a restriction or limitation on, or a delay in, the performance of the work or a tendency to restrict, limit or delay the performance of the work; or 
a ban, limitation or restriction on the performance of work or on acceptance or offering for work. . . . 
Clearly the Government had in mind not that sort of situation but political strike activity. But even here the proposed legislation will enable an individual member to adopt an 'I'm all right Jack' attitude on political stoppages thus avoiding his clear obligation to ensure that his union as a whole acts responsibly. Do not let the Government talk too much about what employers have done about political stoppages because maybe I will look into my locker and get documents to show what the Government itself did in respect of one of its intrumentalities to a member of a particular union who decided not to strike during the Medibank stoppage. 
The way the Bill is worded even enables individual union members to opt out of any industrial action decided upon by the union and its members, irrespective of whether that industrial action concerns industrial disputes over such vital issues as safety, personal protection, victimisation and the like. It goes further, providing severe penalties on a union which seeks to protect its members from anarchy by recourse to its registered disciplinary rules. The Bill therefore prevents unions implementing their internal disciplinary rules which are designed to ensure a cohesion in policy and co-ordinated orderly industrial progress and from which there is an existing right of appeal by a member. 
The general thrust of the Bill therefore can be branded as an invitation to anarchy and irresponsibility in industrial relations. It opens the way for organised extremist groups to manipulate trade unions by enabling members who should be responsible the opportunity to opt out of their obligations. In addition it talks about individual rights but the rights of individual members already enshrined in sections 140, 141 and 143 are to be diluted by the intrusion of the Industrial Relations Bureau between individual members and the court. Under the present legislation individual members have direct access to the court. Under the proposals they must first make a complaint through the Industrial Relations Bureau and they can only go to the court if the Bureau advises the complainant that there is no foundation for complaint. What if a member, for instance under the current section 141, makes an application for the performance and observance of the rules by the officers of his organisation in a certain manner. Under the proposed legislation he must first see the Bureau and make a complaint there. The legislation does not say how long the Bureau has to investigate the complaint. The Bureau may say that there is some substance in the complaint but that it thinks the rules should be observed in a particular way which is not the way in which the members think they ought to be observed. Under those circumstances that denies to the individual member his right under existing legislation to go directly to the Court for redress. 
The Government intends to establish an Industrial Relations Bureau to enforce its proposals which, as I have said, are seen to be an invitation to irresponsibility. The proposed establishment of the Bureau can be described only as an unwarranted interference in industrial affairs and an unwarranted and costly bureaucratic encumbrance on the system of conciliation and arbitration. The Bureau will have wide investigative powers and, mark my words, a possibly unconstitutional mix of judicial and arbitral powers. Its personnel will presumably be appointed from public servants inexperienced in union rules and procedures or, probably worse still, from persons experienced in such procedures but with axes to grind. What will happen to all those people appointed in a particular era as inspectors? Such a bureau will be resented by both the employers and the trade unions, not to mention the industrial registries. Clause 15 of the Bill clothes the Court with dragnet consequential order powers which in spirit, if not in law, go beyond the essence of the judicial power of the ascertainment, declaration and enforcement of existing rights and obligations. 

 Senator John Button was speaking for a wide section of moderate union opinion in the industrial labour movement when he said in the Senate on 3 June 1976, as reported at page 2347 of  Hansard,  in reference to the Australian Industrial Court, now the Federal Court: 
There is a decline in respect in industrial circles for the Industrial Court. There is confusion about its judgments. There is no understanding of where it is going. There is no confidence in approaching that  Court  seeking justice in an industrial situation not only because of political reasons- it has been a political court in the past- but also because of the calibre of the work done in that Court because it does not consist of specialists in this very difficult and important jurisdiction. 
The Government has been advised that the concern for the continuance of the system of union registration and enforcement of rules stems from the meddling by governments with the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since 1972, the confusion caused by judges of the Court in using the absolute discretion given by certain sections of the Act and the very different attitudes which particular judges bring to bear on the same set of facts or, alternatively, on what is their view of the needs of a properly functioning trade union. In those circumstances many unions are questioning the merit of continued registration under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Those unions are not confined to the extreme Left, unions which have traditionally had an attitude that there should be no system of registration. The Bill 's amendment to the definition of employee in clause 3, taken together with the proposed amendment to section 132, will leave unprotected, particularly in Victoria and Tasmania, substantial numbers of workers who, while not strictly employees, nevertheless rely on unions for the protection of their interests as workers. I refer, for example, to owner-drivers. There are hundreds and hundreds of owner-drivers who legitimately- this certainly has not been testedare members of the Transport Workers Union in Victoria and Tasmania as a result of the current provisions of section 132 and the definition of employee. Because there is no registration of industrial unions in those 2 States which are thus not covered in the Bill, thousands of workers who are now legitimately union members will be left unprotected if the Bill becomes law. Such illconsidered proposals could lead to greater divisions between Federal and State industrial systems and could force consideration in Victoria and Tasmania of the need for a system of State registration of unions in those 2 States. 
The Government has consistently failed to consult with registered industrial organisations affected by the proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Its failure to do so on this occasion and its failure to recognise that there are signs of co-ordinated action within the trade union movement on the part of moderate leaders to ensure responsible actions for orderly industrial progress lead me to the conclusion that the current proposals in the Bill are so much political window dressing and are no substitute for proper legislation based on a true understanding of the position in the industrial arena in Australia. 
Prior to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's contribution to this debate I had intended to move an amendment to the original motion to include for consideration other matters which I believed the original motion had left out. Having listened to the contribution of the honourable senator, I recognise that the matters to which he referred merit very careful consideration. However, undertakings have been given so now I will attempt to have the mover of the original motion encompass those areas which I believe have been omitted. This matter has caused me a great deal of personal concern, as I am sure it has given every other member of the Senate. I made a contribution to a debate on this matter on 18 May last year. I recognised as far back as 1974 - because of an association I have in the area- that a situation was developing which could result in grave problems. No good purpose would be served if I were to traverse in my contribution to this debate the sentiments that have been expressed by me previously. I turn now to the subject matter of the motion which was moved by  Senator Gietzelt  on 24 March this year and which read: 
That- 
A Select Committee of the Senate be appointed to inquire into and report upon the following matters : 
the form of Australian aid to the residents of East Timor; 
the plight of refugees from East Timor; 
the fate of six (6) Australian journalists in East Timor; 
communications between Australia and East Timor; 
the position in Timor, including the conflict between Timorese forces and Indonesian forces and the position of the Timorese civilian population, the origins of the conflict and its impact on the Timorese people; and 
f) other matters relating to the foregoing. 
The remainder of the motion dealt with machinery matters concerning the committee. In passing, I refer to the fact that the machinery parts of the motion were obviously coached in terms similar to those which existed in the then Standing Orders which have been slightly changed. I believe that a deficiency exists in the motion which needs to be examined. I suggest that consideration be given by the Opposition to amending its motion to add, after sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph (1) the following new subparagraphs: (ea) the involvement of the Communist Party of Australia in support of the Fretilin cause in Australia; (eb) the association between Fretilin and other Marxist groups in European and African countries; (ec) the part played by Marxist officers of the Portuguese battalion sent to Timor after the revolution in Portugal; (ed) whether there was any improper action by the Soviet Embassy in offering to assist  Mr K..  Fry M.P. in his visit to the United Nations to speak on behalf of the Fretilin cause; (ee) whether or not the Miscellaneous Workers Union has contravened any Australian statutes in facilitating the housing of wireless apparatus in its union offices in Darwin for the purpose of receiving wireless messages from Fretilin guerillas in Timor; (ef) whether or not money given by the Australian Government to Australian aid organisations was used for purposes unrelated to the original intention of the grant or grants, namely, the payment or partpayment of  Mr Dunn  's fares to European countries; (eg) what briefings, if any, were given to any or all of the six Australian journalists prior to their departure, as to the situation in East Timor and whether the media organisations to which these journalists were reporting should be responsible for additional compensation payments and, if so, how this would be enforced; and other matters relating to the foregoing. 
I recognise that some honourable senators in support of their position in respect of this matter have recited a letter that all honourable senators received from the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace. That letter was incorporated in  Hansard  on 3 1 March 1977. 1 received the letter which was dated 23 March 1977 and was addressed to all members of the Australian Parliament. It was over the signature of  Mr  Mauro  Di Nicola, National Secretary of the Catholic Commision for Justice and Peace. I read the communication with interest and I sent a letter to  Mr Di  Nicola on 29 March 1977, which stated: 
I have received your roneod letter 'to all Members of the Australian Parliament' dated 23 March 1977 in which you call for a 'full and impartial parliamentary inquiry' into the East Timor subject. 
There is a motion (copy enclosed) now before the Senate to establish a Senate inquiry into the East Timor subject. I understand that debate on this subject will be resumed on Thursday, 31 March. I am considering my position on the matter. In the interests of completeness and impartiality - 
The words 'full and impartial parliamentary inquiry ' were referred to in the  CCJP  letter- 
I am presently of the opinion that the committee 's terms of reference should be expanded to include the following: 
The following related to the matters that I have just expressed to the Senate. I received a telegram back from  Mr Di  Nicola as follows: 
Thank you for your letter of 29 March. I would be most unwilling to offer you my personal views on your proposal since in my role as the Commission 's secretary they are quite irrelevant. The Commission met a fortnight ago and at that lime it did not have any details of the proposed terms of reference for the East Timor inquiry. The Commission will not meet again until July and since Commission members originate from all over Australia it has been impossible to organise a special meeting to consider the specific suggestions contained in your letter. The stated policy of the Commission is that it supports a full and impartial inquiry into all aspects of the East Timor situation. The Commission is therefore opposed to any attempts to limit either the scope or the impartiality of any parliamentary inquiry on East Timor. 
That was signed by  Mr Mauro  Di Nicola, the National Secretary of the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace. Having regard to the extended areas of inquiry that I am submitting to the Senate, I believe that it is necessary for me to mention briefly why I have included some matters. I emphasise that they are in addition to the subject matters which were referred to by the mover of the original motion,  Senator Gietzelt.  On 5 October 1976 I asked a question of the 
Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  in the following terms: 
Is the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that a telex message concerning the illegal radio transmitter in Darwin, sent yesterday from a  Mr Denis  Freney of the Campaign for an Independent East Timor to the offices of the  Canberra Times,  was in fact sent from the offices of the Communist Party newspaper  Tribune?  Is the Minister aware that the Communist Party has adopted double standards on the matter of self-determination, having refused to support this right for the West New Guineans at the time of the takeover of West New Guinea by the Sukarno regime, which was then in close contact with the Soviet Union, a communist country? Does the Minister have any information on the involvement of the Communist Party in the East Timor issue? Would he agree that the involvement of the Communist Party has hindered moves for Timorese self-determination rather than assist them? 
In the reply which I received the Minister advised that he referred the subject of my question to the Attorney-General. The Minister's reply to me dated 12 April 1977 stated: 
The matter of the Communist Party involvement and its effect was referred to my colleague the Attorney-General, who has furnished the following reply: 
The Communist Party of Australia is involved in the Timor issue in Australia through the participation of some of its members in the "Campaign for an Independent East Timor". I will not speculate on the effect of that involvement on the situation in Timor. ' 
The other matters to which I have referred have been canvassed in this House and I will not delay debate on this matter by going over them. I would like to refer particularly to the final portion of my suggestion, which reads: 
What briefings, if any, were given to any or all of the six Australian journalists prior to their departure, as to the situation in East Timor and whether the media organisations to which these journalists were reporting should be responsible for additional compensation payments and, if so, how this would be enforced; and other matters relating to the foregoing. 
It is all very well for these newspaper proprietors and media areas to have pious editorials about the loss of the newsmen in East Timor, but who has blood on their hands? If these media moguls did not give these journalists a proper briefing prior to their departure, who has blood on their hands? 
-1 do not know what the honourable senator means. I refer him to my previous contribution on this issue. I have taken a consistent attitude and in respect of the matter in 1962. In respect of the latter point I believe that there is also a need for an investigation and that a Senate inquiry could properly investigate such a subject. I consider, as does the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace- people seem to be quoting that organisation all the time along with unnamed religious sources here, there and  everywhere- that the terms of reference should be unlimited. I commend to the Opposition the additions to the motion to see whether it is prepared in the interests of a full inquiry to include them. I suggest that the Opposition also has a look at the machinery matters and brings them into line with those under the Standing Orders. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. The Minister will be aware that an organisation known as Population Services International (Australasia) Ltd which is run by a  Dr Geoffrey  L. R. Davis, from Sydney, is attempting to establish a private abortion clinic in the Australian Capital Territory. The Minister will also be aware that I made a speech concerning  Dr Davis  and PSI in the Senate on 17 March and that I detailed the large amounts of money involved in his activities. I ask  Senator Guilfoyle  3 specific questions regarding the activities of  Dr Davis  while he was in England. Did  Dr Geoffrey  L. R. Davis, while he was in England, conduct a private clinic at Milford-on-Sea in southern England? Was this clinic substantially engaged in terminations of pregnancies? Was this clinic closed down by the United Kingdom Department of Health and Social Security? 
My question which is directed to .the Minister representing the Minister for Health follows the question I asked previously. Will the Minister give consideration to providing to the New South Wales Government the information which this Government has available concerning  Dr Geoffrey  L. R. Davis? Presumably the New South Wales Government did not have the information when  Dr Davis  was registered in that State and when the clinic was established in that State? 
The purpose of the Australian Development Assistance Agency (Repeal) Bill is to disband the Australian Development Assistance Agency and to incorporate its functions into a special bureau within the Department of Foreign 
Affairs. The Bill enables us to reflect on our performance with respect to overseas aid. The Senate will recall that during my first speech in this place 14 months ago I regarded the matter of aid as so important that I referred to it in that speech. I did so because there was no reference to aid, as we understand that word, in the speech of the Governor-General. The reference was simply as follows: 
The Government will seek ways of expanding cooperation with them - 
That is, the Association of South East Asian Nations-  both individually and as a group as well as maintaining and developing substantive communications with all countries in the Asia-Pacific area. 
I made the comment at that time that communication and co-operation were mentioned but I asked: 'What about aid?' The Government must realise, as I realise, having worked on projects relating to the role of co-operatives in the economic and social development of developing countries, that with the withdrawal of United States influence in the area and its failure to match its military capability with political commitment, the individual nations in South East Asia are becoming a prey to the protagonists of the Sino-Soviet dispute. I asked what Australia was doing about that situation. I know that most people in nations in that area do not wish to be associated with the Sino-Soviet dispute. I know, however, that there are massive diplomatic offensives by the Soviet Union in those countries, and in particular institutions, to get members to go to the Soviet Union to learn their system of totalitarianism. 
I pose the question: What are we doing about that matter? For example, what are we doing to assist trade unionists and their organisations in those countries? What are we doing for other institutions in those countries to foster the ideals of grass roots democracy? I raised these matters 14 months ago. I think it is necessary for us to examine our performance with respect to aid to developing countries. It has not been an attractive performance. The internationally recognised percentage of gross national product required to go to overseas aid- that is 0.7 per cent- has not been met; far from it. There has been a declining percentage of Australia's gross national product going to overseas aid. I can quote figures to prove my point. The figures relate to financial years. In 1970-71 the percentage of gross national product devoted to overseas aid for developing countries was 0.56 per cent. In 1971-72, it was 0.55 per cent; in 1972-73, it was 0.53 percent; in 1973-74, it was 0.52 per cent; in 1974-75 it went to 0.56 per cent; and in 1975-76, it went down to 0.5 per cent. This is not a criticism of any government because of its political character as the lowest percentage I have just quoted of 0.5 per cent was during the reign of" the Labor Government. This year 1 976-77, it has dropped even further to 0.49 per cent. 
So, in comparison with the recognised international figure established as a minimum for developed countries to set aside for assistance to developing countries- that is to say, 0.7 per cent of their gross national product- Australia donates 0.49 per cent. Of course, it can be said that there are many other countries which have a far worse record than we have but that is no excuse for our failure to meet our important responsibilities, particularly as we are in an area in which there are large numbers of underprivileged people in developing countries. 
The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  who introduced this Bill into the Senate made a declaration of the Government's intention to raise the standard to 0.7 per cent. For the record I quote this commitment.  Senator Withers  said: 
Our commitment to aid must be seen in the light of present economic constraints and problems facing Australia in the short term. The Government remains firmly committed to the achievement of the internationally accepted target of 0.7 per cent. Regrettably present economic circumstances preclude our setting a date for its achievement. In the meantime, we are endeavouring to maintain our aid at the highest level consistent with economic and budgetary constraints. 
Those were the words of  Senator Withers.  I can appreciate that there are conflicting claims on the Government, particularly in a situation of economic stringency. But I believe that the Government should not because of that situation pare the aid that we should be giving to those less privileged than ourselves. Most importantly, I believe that we should be making a greater contribution to solving the problem of refugees. I would like to quote to the Senate an article dealing with refugees that appeared in the  Mercury  on 25 April 1977. It reports a statement by the Director of Austcare,  Mr Bob  Doughtery. The article is headed: 'Cent A Day for Asian Refugees'. It reads: 
The newly-appointed national director of Austcare,  Mr Bob  Doughtery  wants every Australian to contribute a cent a day to help refugees in camps throughout Asia. 
He also thinks Australia could comfortably boost its intake of refugees to about 10 000 a year. 

 Mr Doughtery  arrived back in Sydney yesterday from a 2 1 day tour of refugee camps in Thailand and Bangladesh, and discussions with refugee organisations in Hong Kong and Geneva. 
He said the Australian Government was already highly regarded in Asia for its relief work with refugees. 
If Australians were willing to contribute one cent a day each, the country's stature would be even higher. 
These people are living in appalling conditions, ' he said. 
They're not slums- that's too dignified a word to describe them.' There was an urgent need for food, material for crafts, medical supplies, and teachers, he said. 

 Mr Doughtery  said he had visited a camp in Bangladesh where 6 1 000 people lived crowded into bamboo shanties with little water and virtually no sanitation. 
In a camp in Thailand more than 800 Vietnamese refugees lived in a gully 20 metres wide by 200 metres. 
In a camp for Cambodian refugees the people lived in corrugated iron buildings, similar to those at the Sydney Showground. 
Incidentally, while talking about Cambodian refugees, it is interesting to note that the Marxist half hour, which has become the Marxist hour, on the Australian Broadcasting Commission- a program which was called  Lateline  but is now called  Broadband-  Mark Aarons last night made no reference to the sufferings of the Cambodian refugees. The article continues: 
They've built bamboo floors and divided the area with bamboo walls. 
There are families with four to eight adults living in these pens'. 
They've no privacy and are allowed no dignity,'  Mr  Doughtery  said. 
Many of them were businessmen who spoke two or three languages. 
He said Australia could reasonably increase its yearly intake of refugees to 10 000. 
This is a subject matter which I have raised before in this chamber. I believe that it is essential for the Government to make a substantial commitment to the resettlement of refugees as has been the call by many sectors of the community. The suggestion was for many of these people to be settled in rural districts in occupations with which they would be familiar. I understand that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  will be presenting a Green Paper on refugee problems. I look forward to this Green Paper and hope that the Minister will commit the Government to making a rather more substantial contribution to the settlement of refugees and the alleviation of their great sufferings. Ironically, in the same issue of the  Mercury,  there was a statement by an education officer with the Australian Council for Overseas Aid. I say 'ironically' because it highlights the difference in approach between the Director of Austcare and an education officer with the Australian Council for Overseas Aid. The  Mercury  of 25 April reported: 
Some of Australia's aid money should be redirected into an Australian education program, it was claimed in Launceston at the weekend. 
In an address on development education,  Mr Peter  Lee, an education officer with the Australian Council for Overseas Aid, emphasised the need for Australians to educate themselves and become more aware of the complexities of Third World issues. He was speaking at a 2-day seminar of the council at Launceston at the weekend. 
At the same time we must not forget the home situationthe two are so closely related and so very important ', he said. 
A substantial part of taxpayers' money which was paid to the Australian Council for Overseas Aid last year on the recommendation of the Australian Development Assistance Agency went to education and much of that went into the production of what is called the  Development News Digest.  An official publication of the Australian Development Assistance Agency had this to say: 
Support for the Australian Council for Overseas Aid (ACFOA) has been maintained with a grant this financial year of $90,000 which includes finance for development education activities in the Australian community. 
As I said, much of that money goes into the education unit of the ACFOA. At about the same time as that statement was made, one issue of the official paper of the ACFOA Education Unit, the  Development News Digest- I  am using one issue as an example- contained the following articles: Focus on Liberation', 'Victory in Timor' by Chris Santos, 'Peace in Timor' by Jill Joliffe, Liberation' by Germaine Greer, 'Aid to Liberation Movements', 'Arukun Land Rights' and interviews with a number of people including an article on the end of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
That was an issue which came out at about the same time as the ADAA document to which I was referring. It is the issue of March 1976. 1 repeat what was in the official document of the Australian Development Assistance Agency: 
Support for the Australian Council for Overseas Aid has been maintained with a grant this financial year of $90,000 which includes finance for development education activities in the Australian community. 
The point I am making is that here are a number of matters which can be classed as of sectional political interest, not in the true sense of overseas aid, not in the marvellous spirit which has been maintained, for example, by the Red Cross. It is this involvement by persons such as the editors of  Development News Digest  in these specific sectional political matters that is bringing the aid question into disrepute. 
I stand here on the policy of 'save aid'. Not only I but people with far greater experience have expressed concern. For example, Dame Phyllis Frost, who dedicated many years to aid to underdeveloped countries, resigned over the issue. The  Age  of 30 March 1 977 reported: 
Dame Phyllis Frost resigned last night as Victorian head of the Freedom From Hunger Campaign- and accused overseas aid bodies of wasting money. 
The 59-year-old stalwart of the campaign since it started in 1961 said too much money was being spent inside Australia on education programs. 
She included the national committee of the Freedom From Hunger Campaign in her criticism. 
Dame Phyllis said she was resigning because she was 'out of step' with the accepted philosophy of overseas aid organisations that 'vast amounts of money' should be spent on the education programs. 
They think that educating Australian people will get them to put pressure on the Australian Government to increase Australia 's contribution to overseas aid, ' she said. 
From what I've seen of this in practice it does not work. 
I think people have to accept the responsibility rather than push it onto governments. 
Once Australians become committed they'll do far more in involving themselves than in passing it on to the Government. 
To simply say that we should educate everybody to force the Government to do something- I think there's an awful lot of money wasted in that. 
Surely Dame Phyllis Frost, after almost 20 years ' service in the organisation, was entitled to say what she said, and people should have regard to what she said. I certainly do not want to associate myself in any way with an overall criticism of the non-government aid organisations. Many of them do a remarkably good job, but this job is denigrated by the activities of a small minority such as the people engaged in the education unit of the Australian Council for Overseas Aid, and the people responsible should have regard to that. 
This is not a new question. I raised the matter at the Estimates Committee A meeting on 7 October last year. Those who are interested will find it in the  Hansard  record of that date. Furthermore, I notice that one of the Government supporters says that the Bureau which is to take the place of the Australian Development Assistance Agency within the Foreign Affairs Department will do a number of things. On 3 1 March 1977, as reported at page 846 of the House of Representatives  Hansard,  Mr Bourchier  had this to say: 
What does the Australian Development Assistance Bureau, as it will now be called, do in this country? Many people are unaware of its actions. One aspect of its operations is the care and service it provides to visiting students from Asian countries now staying in this country to advance their studies. The Bureau provides assistance to the sponsored students in various matters relating to their education, training and welfare. It guides them in all aspects of the Australian way of life and helps them with queries in relation to health, taxation and other matters. It assists in relation to marriage guidance, setting up seminars and social functions  where the students can meet and mix with Australian people. These are some of its activities to assist the sponsored student. Similarly, it co-operates with service organisations throughout the country in organising various functions for private students visiting Australia. 
This then raises the question of whether the Government has done anything in relation to the questions that I raised on expenditure recommended by the Australian Development Assistance Agency to, for example, the Overseas Student Service or to the Malaysian Union of Students. Honourable senators will recall that  Mr Lee  Kwan Yew, during his official visit, criticised some officers of that organisation as being responsible for some of the demonstrations that were made against him during his visit. Furthermore, in the appropriation last year for the Australian Development Assistance Agency an amount was detailed for the All African Students Union. Now that the Australian Development Assistance Agency is to be incorporated into the Department of Foreign Affairs, I do not know whether the Bureau will regard the expenditure of taxpayers' money on these organisations as being useful, advancing overseas aid in any way or, indeed, advancing foreign relations. I should like to suggest that if the Bureau has any doubts on this matter it should look at the fact that the All African Students Union is the group to which people are called on to send their donations for the Zimbabwe Project which has been established to collect material aid for the Zimbabwe people in Mozambique. These are the sorts of things that ought to be considered by the Bureau once it has this responsibility, in order to make sure that the taxpayers' money is spent in the interests of overseas aid and not in sectional political interests. 
The Bill does not entitle me or enable me to speak at length on a problem confronting Australia, that is, the turning of the aid issue into a political football. Much needs to be said on that matter but I hope the people responsible will get the message and it will not need to be said. I support this legislation to establish a bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs to perform the functions previously performed by the Australian Development Assistance Agency. I am opposed, of course, to the other bureau that the Government is trying to set up, namely, the Industrial Relations Bureau. Honourable senators heard me speak on that last week. But the Bureau which the legislation before us seeks to establish will provide the Government with an opportunity to shoulder its responsibility. The responsibility will be sheeted straight home to the Government. It cannot get out of its responsibility in this particular matter. 
I shall wind up my remarks by referring again to the  Development News Digest  which contained an article intitled  The End of ADAA.  In that article it referred to the ADAA Advisory Board, which has been referred to by  Senator Knight,  with, to quote  Development News Digest,  'Sir John  Crawford as  Chairman  and representatives from business, trade unions, non-government organisations, community groups, scientists and politicians as its members'. As I understand it, there was no trade union representative on the ADAA Advisory Board. I suggest that when the Minister does establish the advisory committee as promised in his second reading speech, he consider appointing a trade unionist who is experienced in the work of the international trade secretariats. These international trade secretariats do a great deal. They have the ability and desire to protect developing countries from multinational organisations which seek to obtain tax free holidays in return for providing developing countries with the expertise and technological advances of which the multinationals are the innovators and applicators. Of course, the work of the international trade secretariats- those are the international trade unions to which particular trade unions in Australia and the free world generally are affiliated- is very important in this particular field. In conclusion, I suggest to the Minister that he might consider appointing to his advisory body a union official who is experienced as a member of an international trade secretariat. 
I should like briefly to support the remarks of  Senator Douglas  McClelland and the Opposition Whip,  Senator Georges.  It appears that with all the drafts and redrafts of programs that somebody around the place is sitting down doing that job. 
No. A very notorious ex-senator used to say, I believe, that if you wanted to know about the sittings of the Senate you asked the doorman. I propose to do that shortly after the Senate rises. I am sure I will be satisfied in that regard. 
This week a decision was made by the Interstate Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions which is momentous indeed and which will have great significance and farreaching effects on the future of industrial relations in the whole of Australia. The decision raised the real possibility of a mass deregistration of unions which would leave the Australian federal system of conciliation and arbitration in tatters. It was a momentous decision, a decision which was unusual and unique for the ACTU Executive to make. Successive ACTU congresses have considered this question and over the last 30 years have rejected attempts by the proCommunist Left to force the Australian trade union movement out of the system of conciliation and arbitration. 
The history of the conciliation and arbitration system shows that its inception was supported by the trade union movement and opposed by the employers. The people of Australia have supported this system. The only time that it was put to the test was in the election held in 1929 or 1930 when the then Prime Minister,  Mr Bruce,  went to the people on a platform of abolishing the system of conciliation and arbitration. He was roundly defeated in the electorate. A Labor government was installed in office and  Mr Bruce,  ironically, was defeated by the secretary of the Melbourne Trades Hall Council, who stood for the system of conciliation and arbitration. It is a system for which I have fought within the councils of the trade union movement over the 22 years of my being a trade unionist. It is indeed a saddening day when one sees a decision of this momentous character being forced upon the Executive of the Australian Council of Trades Unions by certain factors that I will enumerate. 
The Government cannot say that it was not forewarned that this would happen. It was forewarned indeed, but those warnings fell on deaf ears. I warned the Government that this would happen. I warned it as far back as 17 March of this year in a speech that I made to the Senate on that date. As I said on that occasion, it has been a long-standing aim of the procommunist Left to destroy Australia's system of conciliation and arbitration. We now see that because the Left is aided and abetted in its aims by this Government the rest of the trade union movement has been forced into a situation where there is raised the real possibility of mass deregis- tration of registered industrial organisation. I made that warning on 21 April. My warning was contained in an address on a matter of urgency when I had this to say: 
In those circumstances many unions are questioning the merit of continued registration under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Those unions are not confined to the extreme Left, unions which have traditionally had an attitude that there should be no system of registration. 
That warning obviously fell on deaf ears. What are the circumstances that I refer to when I gave that warning? I said: 
The Government has been advised that the concern for the continuance of the system of union registration and enforcement of rules stems from the meddling by governments with the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since 1972, the confusion caused by judges of the Court - 
The Australian Industrial Court and now the Federal Court-  in using the absolute discretion given by certain sections of the Act and the very different attitudes which particular judges bring to bear on the same set of facts or, alternatively, on what is their view of the needs of a properly functioning trade union. 
The Government has been told all this, either verbally or in correspondence-all for naught. 
Again, I raised questions month after month on circumstances arising from one such Australian Industrial Court decision, namely B 55 of 1976 which was handed down on 23 December last year. I asked a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations on 23 February. Specifically, that question dealt with that particular decision. I reminded the Minister that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  and, indeed his predecessor,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, gave assurances to the Parliament.  Mr Street  gave an assurance on 1 June 1976 that registered industrial organisations need not amend their rules to conform with the 1973 amendments to section 133( 1) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act because they had until 13 November 1976 to do so and, by that time, the Government intended to amend the Act. I asked the Minister whether he was aware of the decision in the Court and that the decision showed that the assurances given by the Minister for employment and Industrial Relations were absolutely worthless. Those unions who took his assurances at their face value and operated under them and a large number of other unions, because of the judgment, now find that even though they amended their rules, those rules could well be under challenge. Those unions which cover over 1 000 000 trade unionists now have rules whose validity can be challenged. 
I asked the Minister what urgent steps were being taken to enable the Parliament to remedy the situation resulting from the Court's interpretation of section 133 (1 ) (a) before its repeal and the ineffectiveness of the amendments of 12 November 1976 to sections 4 and 133 as a consequence. That was on 23 February. I raised the matter again in the Address-in-Reply debate on 1 7 March. I raised it again in a question on 22 March and again on 20 April. Need I say more? I have been doing it month after month. I refer to the question which I raised on 20 April. I said: 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to a question which I asked him on 23 February 1977 and to a further question on the same subject I asked on 22 March 1977 which related to assurances given by  Mr Street  and by  Mr Cameron  to unions concerning amendments to rules. Such assurances were found to be completely worthless by a decision of the Australian Industrial Court  4 months ago on 23 December 1976. On 22 March 1 977 the Minister promised to expedite an answer. Can the Minister please now advise what action the Government will take to set right the situation caused by the assurances given by the Government? 

 Mr President, I want you and the Senate to realise that I do not reflect on  Senator Durack,  but  Senator Durack  on that occasion said: 
I am aware of the questions that  Senator Harradine  has asked and of the concern he has about this matter. I have passed his questions on to the Minister whom I represent. I have also had some discussions with the Attorney-General in regard to the matter. At this stage the Government is not in a position to say what action, if any, it is proposing to take. The matter is certainly under consideration. 
I asked a supplementary question as follows: 
I wish to ask a supplementary question. It is now 4 months since the decision; when can I receive an answer to the specific matters mentioned in the questions I asked? 

 Senator Durack answered: 
I am afraid I cannot add anything more to the answer I have given. 
In addition to that I raised in debate the matter of my being misled by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott). Senator Wright  and other senators on the Government side asked why I raised a matter of urgency on 2 1 April as it dealt with the Bill to establish the Industrial Relations Bureau. They asked why I could not have written to the Government. It is no use writing to the Government because on important industrial matters I wrote to the Attorney-General on 26 August- I have some experience in industrial affairs and the running of registered industrial organisationssetting out in detail some of the sections of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which I believed should be seen to. They were sections 171D and 171c and sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 141. I detailed a number of comments about these and general comments about the scheme of the legislation itself. I received an answer on 26 January 1977 in which the Attorney-General referred to my letter and said: 
You will recall that sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 141 were inserted in the Act when the High Court found that the Industrial Court did not have the power to freeze funds involved in a Union amalgamation. I would not favour the repeal of sub-sections 141 (2) . . . 
I was startled to receive that letter from the first law officer of the Crown because, though I am not a lawyer, at least I knew immediately that the statement that he had made was incorrect. So I wrote to him on 9 February 1977 referring to his letter and saying: 
I was surprised to read in your letter that you seem to be under the impression that sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 141 were inserted in the Act when the High Court found that the Industrial Court did not have the power to freeze funds involved in a union amalgamation. 
The decision in that case was brought down on 7 June 1972, 5 days after the Act Number 37 of 72 was assented to, and months after the Government had decided to proceed to amend that particular Section. 
Here we had the first law officer of the Crown replying to a letter which I had spent a good deal of time preparing, passing it off by saying that the Act was amended because of a High Court decision, when any infant in the industrial arena knows that that was not the case. So much for my writing to the Government to try to detail the amendments which ought to be made to the Act to ensure that the people responsible for the proper, efficient and effective functioning of a registered industrial organisation can achieve that objective. 
The proximate reasons for the decision of the trade union movement are those that I have mentioned and the proposals to amend the Trade Practices Act and the proposal to establish the IRB. The latter proposal is said by the Government to be necessary to enforce obligations and to protect individual rights. In a detailed speech to the Senate on 2 1 April of this year I submitted proof that the IRB Bill, rather than enforcing obligations, is an invitation to anarchy and irresponsibility. Rather than protecting individual rights of union members, they are diluted by the intrusion of the Industrial Relations Bureau between the individual union member and the Court. Under sections 140, 141 and 143 the individual union member can seek redress directly from the Court. The Government is proposing to dilute that individual right enshrined in the current legislation by the intrusion of the IRB between the member and the Court. The Government contends that if the IRB says that the member's complaint is without foundation the member can still go to the Court. As I pointed out in the speech to which I referred, what if the member saw a breach of the rules taking place and wanted to seek orders from the Court for the performance and observance of the rules of the union in a particular fashion? Under the new proposals, that complaint would have to go through the IRB. What if the IRB said: 'Yes, but I do not think you should say it this way; you should say it another way'? The member could be arguing with the IRB. The IRB need not say that the complaint is without foundation. Thus the rights already enshrined in the legislation would be taken away from individual members. 
I gave the Government warning about this matter on 2 occasions. Apparently it fell on deaf ears. The ACTU Congress, which is the supreme governing body of affiliated unions, will meet on 12 September. Unless the Government heeds what is being said, it is obvious that a decision will be taken at that meeting recommending mass deregistration of unions. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. It refers to representations made to him for the extension of repatriation benefits to those naturalised Australian citizens, mostly Polish, who fought with allied forces under British command. The Minister's answer to representations indicates a wide discrepancy of the numbers involved. Is the Minister in a position to respond to my suggestion that a joint working party of representatives of his Department and of Polish ex-servicemen's organisations ascertain a definite figure of those for whom the entitlement is required and thought desirable by the Government? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, relates to the problems confronting those unions which followed the advice of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and his predecessor the Honourable C. R. Cameron, which advice, in the opinion of the Australian Industrial Court given in B No. 55 of 1976 was, incorrect. I asked this question on 23 February, 23 March and 20 April. It is now 25 May and I ask the Minister the same question. When can I expect a reply to the questions that I have raised on this important matter on those occasions? As the Minister himself gave me an assurance on 12 November that certain matters which were not picked up by the then legislation would be considered, is it possible for such a conference to take place prior to the conciliation and arbitration amendment Bill coming forward this session? 
-We have just heard from  Senator Wood,  who is a  Senator from  Queensland. He has declared his intention to retire at the end of his term. The Senate should be pleased to hear what  Senator Wood  has to say. He has had a wealth of experience in this House. He has stood before the people for the rights of this House. He has proved that his stand is correct so far as this House is concerned and so far as the people of Australia are concerned. By the people, particularly those in the less populous States, he has been proved to be correct. He has been proved to be correct again in praising the stance of  Senator Wright. Senator Wright  is a senator of long standing in this place. He knows the Constitution and knows the rights of this House. He believes that this House is the protector of the rights not only of the States but also of the minorities in the community. 
I well recall after the last Senate election the declaration of the results of the poll in Hobart. I well recall the declaration of the results of that poll in the expanse of the plaza before the Australian Government Centre in Hobart.  Senator Wright  was present. The first senator elected was  Senator Rae.  The second senator elected was  Senator Wriedt.  I was the third. After that  Senator Wright  had his opportunity to speak. He made this declaration to all and sundry: 'Those who think that this, my last term in the Senate, will be one of relaxation have another think coming. I will regard this, my last term in the Senate, as a jockey regards the last furlong of a race- one to be ridden vigorously with whips acracking'. Certainly we members of the Senate are pleased that he will ride his last term in the Senate with whips acracking. 
The same applies to  Senator Wood.  He has declared his intention to retire after his period expires. I will have my money on those 2 senators, and I will have my money on  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I had my money on them in the last 2 weeks. They have been proven correct in their stand for the Senate. They have been proven correct in their belief that the Senate is the protector of the rights of the less populous States. I do not call them the smaller States, because if one analyses the position one sees that Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania are the revenue producers of this country. They are the States which produce the export income for Australia. They are the States which the Senate protects. The Senate also protects the people in the other States. 
I, as the  president  of the third largest union in Tasmania, would dearly love to go to my membership when it is electorally advantageous to me, but I am governed by my constitution and rules which determine when I go to my members. So it is with the Senate. The Senate goes to the people as determined by the Constitution, not by the Prime Minister. We are not answerable to the Prime Minister. We are answerable to the people of Australia. That is how it should be. That is how it should be in the interests of democracy and in the interests of the stability of this institution. If it is good enough for me as  president  of a union to go to my members when my constitution says I shall, it is good enough for me as a senator to go to the people when the Constitution says I shall, not when the Prime Minister says I shall. 
-In a court controlled ballot, of course. I was one of the first to fight for the right of rank and file unionists to demand a court controlled ballot. We have seen the results of those ballots over the years so far as my union is concerned. I congratulate  Senator Wood,  with his long experience, for standing for this principle. I also congratulate  Senator Wright  and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. 
I was delighted to see you,  Mr President,  come to the defence of the  Clerk  of the Senate when a despicable accusation was made against him, namely, that he in some way was engaged in a political operation so far as the No case was concerned. I have complete knowledge of the development of the No case. In no sense was the  Clerk  of the Senate involved. I congratulate you,  Mr President,  for standing behind the  Clerk  of the Senate. I believe that the people of Australia have made their choice. They have made it, knowing that the Senate is the protector not only of the rights of the people of the less populous States but of the rights of all the people of Australia in that the Senate is answerable to them, not to the Prime Minister of the day. Whether the Prime Minister be a Malcolm Fraser, with whom I agree in many respects and disagree in some others, or a Gough Whitlam, with whom I agree in some respects and disagree in others, we are answerable to the people, not to the Prime Minister. 
This debate is on the question of Estimates. I have a very grave matter to raise. Before I do so I would like to talk about the Central Intelligence Agency. We have heard a lot about the CIA in recent times. 
It is interesting that, despite all the things that have been said about me, never has anybody accused me of being in the pocket of the CIA. To the extent that there has been any American influence in the industrial sphere in Australia, through the State Department, it has been negative so far as the anticommunist fight in the trade union movement in Australia is concerned. Let me give the reason for that. The State Department has always advocated amalgamations and collective bargaining in Australia. They are 2 matters which are contrary to the best interests of the anticommunist fight in the trade union movement in Australia. Let us take the question of collective bargaining. The State Department has always believed, through the American multinational corporations in Australia, that collective bargaining is a good thing. The State Department does not understand Australia 's system of conciliation and arbitration. I seek leave to continue my remarks tomorrow. 
Leave granted; debate interrupted. 
With respect I am leading up to the point of the Estimates Committee inquiries on this matter. 
-I crave one minute of the Committee's time simply to say that during the hearings of Estimates Committee D I did attempt to ascertain whether the Capital Territory Health Commission knew what was going on at the Women 's Centre Incorporated in Lobelia Street, which was being used as a front for other operations. My interest in this matter arose chiefly out of a leaflet which was distributed and which was allegedly prepared by the Women's Centre Incorporated in the Australian Capital Territory. That leaflet was distributed outside the school which my daughter attends in Tasmania. It contained information for school girls in respect of abortion. I certainly took objection to it and honourable senators may recall that the Premier of my State took objection to it. 
-I will not keep the Senate long but 1 wish to refer to the matter which I was dealing with last night- the raising of the Central Intelligence Agency bogy within Australia. It is perfectly obvious that the raising of this bogy is designed to undermine the anti-communist fight within the Labor movement and the relationship with our major ally, the United States of America. If we analyse the allegations and see the people upon whom the proponents of this CIA bogy rely, we see that they fall to the ground. On whom do they rely? They rely on  Mr Agee  and  Mr Marchetti,  2 people who for their own reasons seek publicity. In the first case  Mr Agee,  who is under threat of deportation or expulsion from the United Kingdom by the British Labour Government- I am quoting from the authority of Miles Copeland-was a defector to the Cubans. Certainly he was a CIA officer as distinct from an agent. He defected to the Cubans. He wrote a book and of course he wants the book well sold. The second point about him is that he fingered a number of CIA officers. More than one of those officers met an untimely death as a result. Victor Marchetti is also in the book selling business and wants a quick quid. 
We see allegation mounting on allegation that somehow or another the CIA is involved in the affairs of trade unions and the Australian Labor Party. I believe this matter ought to be put to rest. The Australian Council of Trade Unions has said that if anyone has any information at all so far as the trade union movement is concerned it ought to provide the ACTU with that information. That is how it ought to be. There should not be unsubstantiated allegations such as have been made from time to time. I well recall that in 1975 these types of allegations emerged and were supported by people within the ALP when the axes were being sharpened for my head. They were being stated by none other than  Mr Paul  Whalan here in this city of Canberra. 
That may be the honourable senator's opinion but it is not the opinion of a large number of other people. This is the very man who accused a high executive of the New South Wales ALP as being under the influence of the CIA. If the honourable senator says that Paul Whalan is highly respected for that he ought to have a word with members of the high executive of the ALP in New South Wales. Of course, the Communist Party  Tribune  latched on to  Mr Whalan  's claims and made great play of them. For what purpose? For the purpose of trying to make people get cold feet. Allegations have been made within the last month. I heard about one of them. Freddie Nichol in Queensland alleged that he had information or suspicion that the CIA was involved in the internal affairs of the Federated Storemen and Packers Union of Australia in Tasmania in 1970 and 1971 and that money and advice were given to that organisation or to the anticommunists in that organisation in Tasmania. He was referring to the time when the federal body of the Storemen and Packers Union attempted to take control of the Tasmanian branch of the union and to turn it from a moderate influence within the trade union movement to a left influence in the movement. Of course, the officers and members of the Storemen and Packers Union took action both on the job and in the Australian Industrial Court to prevent that takeover. I refer to the celebrated case of  Higgins  v.  Nichol and others.  Higgins, the  President  of the Union, won the case and so the integrity of the branch was preserved and the federal officials had to get out of the place. 
The question arises: From where did the money come to fight the intrusion of the people from the federal office into Tasmania? These other people raise the question of where the money came from. Of course, it is very simple. An application was made under regulation 138 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Regulations for legal aid and it was granted. These allegations are made without foundation. When they are looked into they fall to the ground. They are an attempt to influence people and to frighten them so that they get cold feet. Fred Nichol to his credit, admitted after all this was pointed out that he must have been misled. That is to his very great credit. He said that the branch of the organisation in Tasmania is functioning correctly, efficiently and in a co-ordinated manner with its national body. That is how it should be. 
As I said last evening, to the extent that there is any United States influence within the trade union movement, it tends to be counterproductive. That influence extends through the American companies in this country. It is also extended through State Department officials who come here from time to time, labour attaches and the like. They are all for amalgamation of unions and collective bargaining, as they know it, as against the conciliation and arbitration process as we know it. The growth of unionism in the United States of America has followed paths quite different from the paths followed by the trade union movement in Australia and the trade union movement in Great Britain. Naturally, in some of the organisations in America, there are industry-based unions. Such a situation could not emerge in Australia. Let us take, for example, an amalgamation of unions on an industry basis. Let us take the railways, as  Senator Mulvihill  is present. If there were an amalgamation of unions in the railway industry I could not see the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Sheetmetal Workers Union, for example, handing over its members in railway workshops to the one union which presumably would be the Australian Railways Union. That would apply to industry after industry. 
-I am pointing out that it is totally impracticable. When people talk about overcoming demarcation or other problems by the amalgamation of unions, they are talking through their hats. 
Yes. I ask whether, if the unions in the railways were amalgamated into the Australian Railways Union, would the AMWSU hand over its members to the organisation? I believe that the Federal Government tends to look uncritically at the statements that emanate from United States labour attaches and State Department areas so far as that question is concerned. We know that American companies here are all for collective bargaining. We know that the system of collective bargaining in the United States is a highly developed system which imposes grave responsibilities on the parties. It is totally different from the system of conciliation and arbitration with which we have grown up and which is acceptable to the Australian community. That is a matter to which the Government should have regard. To the extent that there has been official American influence in the trade union area- I mean official and proper, through labour attaches and the like- it has been mostly counter-productive so far as the anticommunist fight in the trade union sphere is concerned. 
The other aspect is this: One should look at why and how the allegations came out and to whom they are directed. They are directed both by Agee and Marchetti. They name the trade union movement and the ALP. They are trying to embarrass the  President  of the ACTU who is also  President  of the ALP. Rather than giving any credence to that sort of attempt, members of the Opposition in this House should be rejecting the Agees, the Marchettis and the like. It is fair to say that  Mr Hawke,  in his role as  President  of the ACTU and the ALP, and other members of the trade union movement speak to people in official capacities such as labour attaches. Labour attaches, as anybody knows, at both the United States Embassy and other embassies are officials of the State Department. They are not CIA officers. Naturally, any country should have intelligence officers operating in another country. When I use the term 'intelligence officers' I mean those officers who are able to gather information about the general affairs of other countries. It is done mainly through the gathering of information from the news media and the like. This is how it should be, so one country knows how another country and its people feel about international areas. Let us not continue to give credence to the type of material that is coming out and being supported by various news media. 
I put before the Government the fact that the program  Broadband,  which I have mentioned in this chamber before today as being not the Marxist half-hour but the Marxist three-quarters of an hour or the Marxist hour, however long it goes, broadcast an interview from one of its officers here, Mark Aarons, with Philip Agee in London. It went on for about half an hour or three quarters of an hour, at taxpayers' expense. I ask the Senate and the Government: What will be done about this misuse of taxpayers ' money? 
-I also heard another program from Mark Aarons, I think it was the week before, which dealt with his view of the Cambodian situation, only giving one point of view, and not the point of" view of the refugees who have come out of Cambodia. Let us look at what Alan Ashbolt, who is the director of projects, said in an article. I am sorry I do not have that article with me but I will get it for the Senate at a later stage. He said that he would not have anybody from the Right, as he called it, on his program. That is not what he ought to have on his program. This is what disturbs me. There is absolutely no balance in that program. That is the worst form of censorship. What about the blind people of Australia? There are a lot of people who cannot read and who cannot sit before their television sets of an evening. Their only recreation is to tune into the ABC. They may not wish to listen to the pop music on the commercial stations and they may not be symphony orchestra buffs. So they have only the ABC station which has  Broadband  on it. The  Broadband  director of projects has said that he will not have a balance on his program. 
Yes. 
He did. I am sorry I do not have his article here. 
If the honourable senator is so interested in it I will be happy to read it during the adjournment debate tonight. If it is conceded all round that there should be a balance in the programs, if I am able this evening to obtain the appropriate quote and if it proves that  Mr Alan  Ashbolt said that he would not have certain opinions on his programs then I would expect the Opposition to support me in a motion which I will then move before the Senate. That motion will seek to have something done about the imbalance of opinion presented and the censorship that these people are imposing on the airwaves over which they have a monopoly. I again refer to those unsighted people who cannot sit before their television sets and who have to sit down or lie in their beds and listen to that sort of biased material. Again I ask the Government: How can this sort of expenditure be authorised when on that program, for example, the interviewer, Mark Aarons, spent half to threequarters of an hour on the telephone to London obtaining the information or the misinformation from  Mr Agee?  Do not forget that  Mr Agee  fingered a number of his other fellow officers who subsequently met tragic deaths. 
-As promised during the sittings of Estimates Committee D I wish to speak to this appropriation in the Committee of the Whole. On 26 August 1976  Senator Withers  made a statement in the Senate concerning new arrangements for the conduct of Estimates Committee proceedings. These arrangements stemmed from the report of Estimates Committee A in May 1 976 and included the early provision by departments of detailed estimates and explanatory notes.  Senator Withers  also said: 
Senators who are not members of a particular committee, but who would like to exercise the right to attend and ask questions at the public hearings, should indicate, in writing, to the secretary of that committee before 10 September those particular areas which they may desire to examine. 

 Senator Withers added: 
It is the Government's hope that by adopting this new recommended procedure senators may be able to obtain more detailed information and that the conduct of committee hearings may become more efficient and more effective. 
I am not a member of any committees because I have a wide ranging field of interest. There are no other members of my independent party to fill in on other committees. I wished to attend certain sessions of the Committees and ask questions and obtain information on certain matters. Accordingly, I wrote to four of the Estimates Committees on 8 September 1976 informing them of the item numbers of 20 matters on which I was seeking additional explanation. My letter to Estimates Committee D specified: 'Department of Health (Capital Territory Health Commission) Division 332.1- Grants in aid to other organisations (Family Planning Association, Community agencies engaged in health activities, Canberra Women's Refuge).' I ask honourable senators to note that my advance letter, which followed directly from  Senator Withers'  request, included the particular area 'Community agencies engaged in health activities'. Over a month later, on 1 2 October 1 976, officials of the Department of Health and the Capital Territory Health Commission appeared before Estimates Committee D to answer questions on the subject matters for which they had been given a month's notice. 
At page 447 onwards in the  Hansard  report of the proceedings of the 1976 Estimates Committee honourable senators will find an explanation of division 332 sub-division one which provides $33.8m for the Capital Territory Health Commission. I invite honourable senators to study that copy of  Hansard  between pages 447 and 453. They will see that I raised 3 matters all of which were included in my advance notice. Despite this advance notice, the replies I received were far from adequate. I draw the attention of the Senate to one of those three matters I raised. The debate can be found on page 45 1 of the Estimates Committees  Hansard  for 12 October 1976. In the second column I am reported as having said: 
I refer now to the $102,000 that is going to be spent on community agencies engaged in mental health activities and other health activities. 
Further on, I am reported as having said: 
To short-circuit the issue, can we have a list of the names of those organisations which received the grant last year. 
The Departmental official replied: 
I do not have that exact information. 
Nevertheless, the Minister promised to provide the information before the Estimates Committee concluded its work. The point I wish to make, at this stage, is that  Senator Withers  had devised a method of making Estimates Committees work more efficiently, namely advance notice of areas on which honourable senators intended to ask questions. I accepted that method and gave prior notice before the stipulated deadline of 10 September. It was not until a month later that the officials came before the Estimates Committee so they had plenty of time to research their files. Immediately I asked my first question on the subject the official stated that he did not have the exact information. As a result, I am unable to pursue the matter any further and have to wait until the exact information comes through in the form of a written reply. 
The Capital Territory Health Commission did supply the additional information a week later on 19 October. By this stage Estimates Committee D had finished its public hearings and there was no hope of recalling the relevant officials. The information provided by the Commission was included in the Committee's report which was tabled on 21 October. The information provided by the Department of Health from the Capital Terrritory Health Commission was: 
Set out below is a listing of the Community Agencies that received grants-in-aid during 1975-76 and are being considered for a grant in aid for 1 976-77. 
It listed various organisations, including The Womens Centre Inc., 3 Lobelia Street, O'Connor, A.C.T. 2601. That grant was explained in the following terms: 
To assist with the payment of the salary of an Education/Information Officer for the Womens Information and Health Counselling Service, $2,800. 
Later, in the additional information supplied by the Commission, it was stated: 
Grants in aid 1976-77- Community and Mental Health Agencies. 
Applications for continuation of grants are at present being considered from the following organisations- 6. The Womens Centre  Incorp 
That information was contained in the report of Estimates Committee D which was presented to the Senate on 2 1 October. The reports from the various committees were debated in the Senate on 4 and 9 November. Unfortunately. I was otherwise engaged and did not take part in these debates where I could have pursued this grant further. However, in later research on the subject I discovered that even the additional information supplied by the Commission was not fully up to date at the time of the debates in the Committee of the Whole. 
-A moment ago, when dealing with the estimates, I was recounting what occurred in November. As most senators will be aware, in April of this year the matters with which I wanted to deal were raised before the Estimates Committees. The item is spelt out at pages 103 and 107 of the  Hansard  record of Estimates Committee D. I asked certain questions on the matter at that stage. I was not satisfied with the answers I received because the answers were not according to the facts. I think it is important for the officers concerned that I relate in some detail the facts. As most senators will be aware, in March of this year a controversy arose in the Australian Capital Territory about the provision of abortion facilities. This resulted in a 90-day ban being placed on private abortion clinics. This matter related to the grant by the Government to the Women's Centre Incorporated. This controversy, which was part of the discussions at Estimates Committee D, prompted some people in Canberra to look a little more closely at the activities of the Women's Centre Incorporated which was located at 3 Lobelia Street, O'Connor. The organisation received a grant in 1975-76 and a further grant in 1976-77. 
In 1976-77 it was $5,965  in toto.  People discovered that this property was a government house and that the occupants were paying a reduced rent to the Government. They also discovered that the house had one telephone number, namely 478070. They found out that various organisations listed the address as their headquarters. These included the Women's Electoral Lobby, Women's Liberation, Rape Crisis Counselling, Feminist Bookshop, the Women's Information Service and the Abortion Counselling Service. However, the most important thing they found out was that the main service which operated from the address was the Abortion Counselling Service and that the service could be contacted on 478070 between certain hours each day. 
Furthermore, strong rumors were circulating in Canberra that the Abortion Counselling Service had collected several thousand dollars and intended to commission a public opinion poll in the Australian Capital Territory on abortion. I was not given full information about this amount. It is very interesting to note that the Abortion Counselling Service is being run by people to whom the Federal Government is providing money. It is worth spelling out this point. The Abortion Counselling Service says that the money goes to the Women's Housing Information Service which, as far as I can determine, is a non-existent organisation. An advertisement for the Women's Information Service at Lobelia Street states that it answers queries on abortion, amongst other things. The Abortion Counselling Service has advertised that it mans the telephone at Lobelia Street during certain hours. A survey reported in the Canberra  Times  is attributed in the first instance to the Abortion Counselling Service and then, 10 days later, to the Women's Health and Counselling Service. The Capital Territory Health Commission states that it gives money to the Women's Centre at Lobelia Street to assist with the payment of the salary of an education/information officer for the Women's Information and Health Counselling Service'. 
By this stage I was looking forward to settling some of these queries when officials of the Commission came before Estimates Committee D on 28 April 1977. Unlike the last occasion,  Senator Withers  had not asked senators to give advance notice of the areas on which they wished to question officials, but I thought that officials from the Commission would have studied last year's  Hansard  and would come well prepared with all the files in their brief cases. How wrong I was. I invite senators to turn to page 103 of the  Hansard  report of the proceedings of Estimates Committee D on 28 April 1977. At pages 103 to 105 they will see some preliminary questions by me in which the Women's Centre became confused - 
I invite them to look at it at some convenient time. 
Thank you. I thought the  Chairman  of Committee D might. At that stage there became, not on my part but presumably on the pan of officials, some confusion between the Women's Centre and the Women's 
Refuge. The Department of Health threw the ball right back to the Capital Territory Health Commission. Finally the  Chairman, Senator Baume,  suggested that the Committee proceed with several items and refer back to the Capital Territory Health Commission later. Estimates Committee D returned to the Commission on page 106 and my questioning about the grant to the Women's Centre continues until page 109. 1 asked several questions about this grant and the proceedings of the Committee were handicapped once again by the failure of officials to have information fully available. There is some further questioning on page 111. 
Amongst all the questions I asked and the half answers I was given I wish to refer specifically to 2 questions. The first concerns the aims of organisations to which grants are made. It was posed first in column one on page 107, then in column one on page 108 and finally in column one on page 109 where I asked:  ls it or is it not government policy that a recipient organisation should have general aims acceptable to the Commonwealth Government and should be representative of the parties concerned? 
Honourable senators are invited to examine the Commission's reply appearing in the report of Estimates Committee D to the Senate. The first reply covers 6 pages and I still cannot discover what the answer is. The second attempt is in a separate letter file No. 77/748 and I still cannot discover whether the answer is yes or no. The second specific question appears on page 1 1 1 of the  Hansard  report:   has the Health Commission heard of the Pregnancy Support Service which is operating in the Australian Capital Territory and to which the Doctor did not refer? 
That question and its answer are worth looking at because they raise a matter of very grave importance to the Senate. Some honourable senators may not have heard of the A.C.T. Pregnancy Support Service. It has been active in the A.C.T. since about 1974. It has existed to date on voluntary assistance and has not received government help. The Health Commission official replied to my question as follows: 
 I personally have not heard of it. It is not a field about which I am well informed. 
As with the previous examination of the estimates for the Health Commission, answers to the unanswered questions were subsequently supplied to the Estimates Committee in written form. They appear in the report tabled in the Senate. I invite honourable senators to refer to the page which states: 
asked . . . has the Health Commission heard of the Pregnancy Support Service which is operating in the Australian Capital Territory? 
The reply was: 
Yes. The Pregnancy Support Service advertises in the local Press at regular intervals. It has however, not applied for assistance from the Commission at any time but should it do so in the future it will receive equal consideration along with all other organisations. However, the availability of funds for new grants would be relevant 
At least the Health Commission knew about the Pregnancy Support Service even if its representative who appeared before the Estimates Committee did not. I ask honourable senators to note the reply: 
It has, however, not applied for assistance from the Commission at any time - 
I believe that the Health Commission 's reply is less than factual. I have in my possession- I am prepared to table it if necessary-a letter from Helen Crisp, who signed herself as  Deputy Chairman,  Interim Committee, Capital Territory Health Commission. The letter is dated 17 April 1975 and the file reference is A75/141. It is addressed to the Treasurer of the Pregnancy Support Service and is headed 'Grants to Community Agencies Engaged in Mental Health Activities in the A.C.T. '. This is precisely the item on which I had been questioning the Health Commission officials. The letter reads: 
I refer to your application for financial assistance under the above scheme. I have read with interest of the excellent work being carried out by your Group. I regret, however, that in terms of the finance available, it is not possible to offer you a grant at this time. It is expected that further such grants may be offered in 9 to 1 2 months time. 
That letter was dated 17 April 1975. Not only did Pregnancy Support Service apply for assistance but also it missed out. Funds were not available. Yet 5 months later grants to Australian Capital Territory organisations under the community health program were announced in the Press including one for the so-called Women's Information and Health Counselling Service at Lobelia Street. I am not saying that the Health Commission misled the Parliament. I am just saying that it was less than factual. It is probably strictly correct in a technical sense to say that the Health Commission has not received an application. When the application was made the Commission was an interim body and was part of the A.C.T. Health Services under the Department of Health. It is a question of semantics but other material from the Commission appearing in the report from Estimates Committee D shows that the same person who wrote the letter in 1975 to the Pregnancy Support Service is also Chairman of the Committee which decided on these grants on this occasion in 1977. The fact of the unsuccessful application must have been known to some official in the Health Commission. 
I think I should leave it at that apart from saying that in order to find out exactly when the Health Commission ceased to be an interim body run by an interim committee I asked the Parliamentary Library to obtain reports of the Health Commission. The Library contacted the Commission and found that its first report, for 1975-76, has yet to be printed, which perhaps is not surprising in view of what I have outlined above. I understand that the Capital Territory Health Commission or a spokesman for it has suggested that it might be an appropriate body to control any abortion arrangements in the A.C.T., that is, ensuring that the law is adhered to in policing abortion establishments. I for one would be very reluctant to place that function in its hands since on its own admission it knows very little about that area. 
I should add as a postscript that after the recent Estimates Committee examination I was still curious about the situation at Lobelia Street. I will detail to the Senate at another time the results of inquiries which were made of that establishment and the Government-paid person answering the telephone and the replies that were given relating to abortions and where they may be obtained. I suggest that even if the Government and the Health Commission do not know what goes on, the Women's Centre, the Women's Information Services, the Abortion Counselling Services, the Women's Housing Information Service, the Women's Information and Health Counselling Service- call it what you will- knows what goes on and is grateful that important officials in government agencies are making it extremely difficult for members of Parliament to get to the truth. 
I have been invited by  Senator Grimes  to provide further information to the Committee. I did not do so earlier because I did not have time and it is not related strictly to the report of Estimates Committee D. I am quite happy to proceed with detailing the situation in respect of the Women's Centre in Lobelia Street. 
It is drawing a long bow, but I have been invited to do so by  Senator Grimes. 
I will accept your ruling,  Mr Temporary Chairman.  I should add as a postscript to the hearing by the Estimates Committee that following the recent Estimates Committee examination I was still curious as to what went on at Lobelia Street. The answer came from a Canberra woman who phoned the telephone number referred to by the Health Commission authorities as being the number of the Women's Centre Incorporated. She telephoned that number during the hours advertised for the abortion counselling service. She asked to be put through to the Women's Information and Health Counselling Service which is the organisation receiving government finance. After a short delay the woman who answered the phone originally said that she had the correct number. The Canberra woman then proceeded to ask for information on how to obtain an abortion. She was given full details about how the service helped women to go to Sydney for abortions. She asked whether any financial assistance was provided to help such women, and the person at the other end replied: 'No. We get a grant from the Government, but that is only to keep the doors open'. 
The Departmental officials were asked whether grants-in-aid for recipient organisations were considered in the light of the policy guidelines laid down by the Government; in other words, whether grants-in-aid were provided to organisations which provided a service consistent with the overall policy objections of the Government? In spite of the 6-page response that has been provided by the Health Commission, that question has not been answered. A further policy procedure adopted by the Government was that if other organisations in the same sphere applied for aid, equity must prevail and proper consideration must be given to such applications. The essence of the matter, of course, is that the Health Commission stated, firstly, that it had not heard of the Pregnancy Support Service and, secondly, it said in writing that it had not received an application for assistance from that organisation. Those questions still remain unanswered. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Minister aware that 2 major fire appliances urgently required for fire protection on the north-west coast of Tasmania are being held under bond in the fire stations and that such action has been taken by a Federal department as duty amounting to many thousands of dollars imposed after the vehicles were ordered has not been paid? Does the Minister agree that fire brigades are in a special category in that they are an essential emergency service? Does he agree that the imposition of duty subsequent to the ordering of the fire appliances should be waived in the interests of fire protection on the north-west coast of Tasmania? Does the Minister also agree that fire brigades are in a different position compared with other organisations in that, in an emergency, under the State Act fire appliances can be commandeered? 
 I have been prompted to enter this discussion by the thoughtless remarks recently made by  Senator McLaren.  He seemed to accuse me of flitting from committee to committee and implied that that was not good enough; that I ought to be elected to one committee, do my job on that committee, and then perhaps raise other matters in the Committee of the Whole. It was only out of deference to the Australian Labor Party that I did not put my name forward for nomination to any of the committees, because had I done so, under standing orders, I would have taken one of its places on a committee. 
-Of course you object to it and then you object to my refusing to go on to a committee and being able to go from committee to committee, giving adequate notice to the secretaries of the various committees.  Senator McLaren  cannot have it both ways. He now says that he objects. What then am I supposed to do? 
-Of course. You are another one. 
I accept that. 
Proposed expenditure passed. 
My question, which  is directed to the Minister for Social Security, relates to eligibility for pensioner health benefits and pensioner fringe benefits. The Minister will be aware that between 1967 and 1973 the fringe benefit limit was raised each time legislation was passed to increase pension rates. She will also be aware that there has been a freeze on the limit since 1 973. Is the Minister aware of the dramatic effect that this is having on a number of pensioner beneficiaries? Is the Government considering anything to alleviate the problems caused by that freeze? 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting  Senator Button  was discussing clause 5. 1 am pleased that the original provision to amend section 54 of the principal Act has been altered. The amending provision was in the Bill introduced in the other House, and read: 
Where, in the opinion of a member of the Commission, a matter concerning the safety of employees or of other persons in or about a place of work arises in or in connection with an industrial dispute, he may request the Director to arrange for an authorised person to investigate the matter. . . . 
Under section 54 of the Act there is a requirement to make the findings public, if that is thought desirable. I am wondering whether the Minister would advise why the current provision in the Act about publication has been omitted. I defer to  Senator Button. 
Section  54  of the original Act deals with the safety of employees. Sub-section  (4)  provides: 
A report of an Inspector under this section shall be considered by the member of the Commission where it is relevant to the performance of the powers and duties of the member under this Act and, unless there are special circumstances which in his opinion render it undesirable to do so, the member shall make the report public. 
The initial Bill to establish the Industrial Relations Bureau, which was introduced in the House of Representatives, did not include that requirement to make the report public. I note with pleasure that the Government, after a good deal of discussion on this matter, has seen fit to reinstate the original amending sub-clause. I apologise for not finding the appropriate reference earlier, but it is difficult when the Government introduces in the other place legislation which it says around the countryside is essential for the maintenance of industrial stability and then introduces another Bill in which only five of the original  33  clauses remain intact. Indeed, most of the others have been deleted. 
Again I raise a point that I raised in a question upon notice concerning the composition of the Industrial Inspectorate. For a considerable time I have had on the notice paper a question addressed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  requesting the number and names of the personnel of the Inspectorate. Clause 8 repeals section 125 of the principal Act. That section provides that there shall be such inspectors as are required for the purpose of securing the observance of the Act, the regulations and the awards. The Minister may appoint a person to be an inspector for the purposes of the Act. 
I would like to know 2 things. First of all, why have I not received a reply to my question upon notice- a reply has been outstanding for a considerable time- as to who are the inspectors, how many there are, by whom they were appointed, in what circumstances they were appointed and what qualifications they had to be appointed as inspectors in the first place? Of course the dogs are barking that under a previous Administration the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  appointed all sorts of people to the Industrial Inspectorate. It is said that he appointed broken down union officials and the like. 
What I want before I vote on this legislation is an answer to my question upon notice. Surely to goodness the Minister would have been able to reply to it in one day. Month after month since December I have asked the same question in this place on an industrial matter affecting more than 1 million unionists, and only today did I get an answer. How can I make up my mind whether it is appropriate for me to vote for the repeal of section 125 of the principal Act, presuming that people who are appointed currently under section 125 of the Act will form the Industrial Relations Bureau? It is not fair to ask anybody to buy a pig in a poke, but that is what the Government is asking us to do tonight. I ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  when I may expect from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations answers to my simple questions upon notice. The information sought is required by me to enable me to make a reasoned decision in respect of this legislation. I also ask what is to happen to all present members of the Inspectorate. In fairness to the Inspectorate, I must say that 99 per cent of those employed are very hard working people. Most are overworked. What is to happen to them? What is to happen to their permanency? Are they to be transferred to the Bureau. 
I raised a matter in the second reading debate with which the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  has not yet dealt. It related to clause 1 2 which reads as follows: 
The Council may, at any time, cause to be constituted a committee to consider, and report to the Council on, any matter relevant to the purpose of the Council referred to it by the Council. 
Sub-clause (2) deals with the question of entitlements. The phrase 'any matter relevant to the purpose of the Council ' refers to clause 5(1), which states: 
The purpose of the Council is to provide, in the public interest, a regular and organised means by which representatives of the Government of the Commonwealth, of employers and of employees may consult together on industrial relations matters, and manpower matters, of national concern. 
It is very likely that, during the course of the Council's consultations, matters will emerge which will require expert committees to be appointed to consider those matters. 1 give one instance- that is, matters concerning amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The Government, it appears, will consult with the National Labour Consultative Council on amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
As I mentioned in the second reading debate, none of the organisations mentioned in clause 6 of the Bill as being members of the Council are registered industrial organisations. Some of the members appointed by the nominated organisations mentioned in clause 6 may well be officials of registered industrial organisations, but not necessarily so. They could well be secretaries of labour councils, for example. The Australian Council of Trade Unions may well appoint as its representatives its  President,  its Secretary and four of the 6 secretaries of State trades and labour councils. The point I am making is that in those circumstances none of those persons, although being extremely efficient and effective in their own organisations, are in touch with the day-to-day problems of administering organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In these circumstances, the Council may well consider that proposed amendments require examination by a committee comprising people with day-to-day experience in the administration of organisations which are registered under the Act and which would be vitally affected by proposed amendments to the Act. 
As I read clause 12, it does not enable such committees to be appointed and to report to the Council. The Minister for Veterans' Affairs can correct me if I am wrong; but it appears that the membership of such committees would be confined to the membership ofthe Council. On manpower planning matters, again it may well be that it is necessary to appoint expert committees in respect of various areas of manpower. Again there appears to be nothing in clause 12 which would enable the Council to establish such expert committees. I am wondering whether at this point the Minister will give us some information about whether such expert committees can be appointed. 
The second point that I wanted to raise- I raised this in the second reading debatewas that the former National Labour Advisory Conference, a body of similar composition and functions to the National Labour Consultative Council, was established but not by statute. Under this Bill the Council is established by statute. Yet this statutory council is one of the very few if not the only one not required to report to the Parliament. I wonder why provision for an annual report to be made by the Council to the Parliament has not been included in this legislation. I think it is important, if we as a Parliament clothe a consultative committee such as this with legislative respectability, that it should be required to report to the Parliament from time to time. There may be a valid reason for this ommission. If so, I am prepared to accept that. I would be prepared to accept an assurance from the Minister that both Houses of Parliament will be given at least annual reports on the functions of the Council. 
We are debating cognately 2 Bills. The purpose of the first Bill is to establish a National Labour Consultative Council, and I shall deal with that Bill shortly. The purpose of the second Bill is to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to establish an Industrial Relations Bureau. The latter Bill, in another form, was introduced into the House of Representatives and the Government said, throughout the length and breadth of Australia, that it would be the very legislation which would solve the industrial problems of this country. That led me to move an urgency motion in this House which was debated some three or four weeks ago. Much has changed since then but for a while after that urgency debate the Government continued to bombard the electorate with statements to the effect that this piece of legislation, which had been introduced into the House of Representatives, would be the very legislation required to establish industrial stability in this country. Let me give an example of some of the statements made. I refer to an article in the  Mercury  newspaper of 12 May 1977, headed 'No Backdown on Bill', which said: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  yesterday gave an unqualified assurance' that the Government would proceed with the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation. 
We will not give in', he declared in answer to a question at a luncheon in Hobart. 

 Mr Fraser said the strike by air traffic controllers, 'with all its selfishness, with all its disregard for the interests of the overwhelming majority or other Australians', was the strongest possible argument for the IRB legislation. 
Another member of the House of Representatives, who was then accompanying the Prime Minister in Tasmania putting the case for a Yes vote at the referendum, had this to say: 
The Industrial Relations Bureau legislation now before the Federal Parliament - 
That is not this legislation but the Bill that was before the House of Representatives-  was tailor-made for Tasmania. 
He said that clause 26 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill would enable persons or organisations engaging in industrial strike action that interfered with interstate trade and commerce to be called on publicly to account for their actions. This referred particularly to strike action which, in Tasmania's case, isolated the State from the mainland. He said: 
Perhaps some of the people who abused me for calling on the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation will now understand why we need a law to protect Tasmania. 
That statement was made by a member of the House of Representatives. I will not mention his name because I am sure that he regrets those words. It is of great concern to me that members of the Government should go throughout the length and breadth of this country making statements of that kind, suggesting to the people that the problems of industrial relations can be overcome simply by legislation. Now the Government has brought in a Bill which is an absolute shell of the one that was referred to as being essential to overcome the problems of industrial relations in this country. 
Let us analyse the statements made by the Prime Minister and that other member of the House of Representatives who said that the Bill was tailor-made for the air traffic controllers strike. How would it have affected the situation brought about by the air traffic controllers' strike? Two of the salient features of the Bill which was introduced into the House of Representatives were the enforcement of a secret strike ballot and an additional provision in section 143 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act adding as a further ground for deregistration the ground that the union interfered with interstate trade. On the first point, the air traffic controllers had already had a secret strike ballot and the result was to stay out on strike. Would that legislation have done anything in that particular matter? Of course it would not. What it would have done would have been to give statutory approval for a continuation of the strike. 
Secondly, let us consider the deregistration threat. The air traffic controllers' organisation would not have been worried about that one iota. Honourable senators with memories or those who were in the industrial area at the time would remember the air pilots' strike some years ago. When the pilots were threatened with deregistration they voluntarily deregistered. It has not affected them. Additions to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were made subsequently to cover them, establishing a flight crew officers tribunal and the like. Lest I be accused of not being even handed I will refer to what the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, was saying at that time. All he could contribute to the debate on the air traffic controllers strike, which seriously affected Tasmania, was: 'Well, you see, here is a right wing union full of Liberal Party supporters who are out on strike'. That was an infantile statement to make in respect of a serious industrial dispute. Furthermore, it was wrong. 
I have made my position clear in respect of the matter. In my view, the air traffic controllers, particularly those on the first two or three rungs of their career scale, had a case. Frankly, it was one of the worst handled disputes that I have ever seen. The industrial officer of the Association,  Mr Bob  Garlick, said that for 18 months he had been banging his head against the brick wall of the Public Service Board. That was an extraordinary statement to make. It must have affected him. Surely to goodness anyone with an ounce of common sense and the ability to use the industrial procedures intelligently would have been able to obtain some remedy for his members after a period of 18 months. Great delays took place between the time the letter was first written to the Public Service Board and the time the first application was made to the Arbitrator. That is the matter at which members of that organisation should have a look. 
Bob Garlick is one of the new trendy leftwingers who have been emerging in white collar organisations. He left himself no room to manoeuvre. Anyone in the industrial arena knew that. All the people with great responsibility and experience in the field- including  Sir John  Moore, Bob Hawke and others- had not been able to get him to let a bit of ice form on which he could skate or which he could use as an escape route. Fortunately, that problem was overcome, but it certainly was not assisted by the Prime Minister and other Government supporters going around the countryside and saying that the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation was tailor-made for such situations. 
If there is to be responsibility in the industrial relations arena we must have responsible union leadership and responsible leadership in the employer organisations. Industrial relations are best served by the encouragement of effective, responsible trade unions working in the best interests of their members and in the encouragement ofthe members to participate fully in union affairs. The power ofthe trade unions to contribute effectively and responsibly towards industrial progress depends on the co-ordinated and disciplined action of their members. For many years this has been recognised. The rules of individual trade unions registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act have contained selfdisciplinary provisions. Likewise, the central trade union organisations such as the Australian 
Council of Trade Unions and the labour councils, have had rules for the conduct and control of industrial disputes with their own internal disciplinary procedures. These procedures are designed and are necessary to achieve the objectives of the unions in a united and co-ordinated manner with the least possible disruption. 
Over the past few years a combination of factors has led to a decline in responsible trade unionism. Australia has witnessed organised attempts by the pro-communist left to create anarchy, to disregard the effects of irresponsible industrial actions on other workers and the community, to flout ACTU rules for the conduct and control of industrial disputes and to turn the trade union movement into a political battering ram, by the abuse of the strike weapon for political purposes. Failure to uphold the ACTU and labour councils dispute rules has contributed to the belief of some unions that they can please themselves as to what action they take without regard to the consequences to themselves as ACTU affiliates or to members of other unions. 
The sense or anarchy is fostered also by those union officials who, rather than oppose the push towards political strikes, take the easy way out by telling their members it is up to each individual whether he joins the strike action. Such weakness attacks the very foundation of the legitimate strike weapon and the trade union movement, which relies for its effectiveness on the precepts unity is strength', and 'united we stand; divided we fall'. Encouragement to union members to shed their collective responsibility for the actions of the unions as a whole and to hide behind their so-called individual rights, as was proposed by the original Bill, leads to anarchy and allows the organised pro-communists to use their unions and the union movement as a whole for their own domestic and international purposes. As is often the case, the backlash to the situation created is an attack not on the cause of the problem but on the institution of unionism itself. 
When the Government introduced the original Bill in the other place it stated that its intention was to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and that its amendments would enforce obligations and protect individual rights. I said when this issue was debated in this chamber as a matter of public importance, and I say now, that nothing could have been further from the truth. Fortunately, the Government has realised that large tracts of its original Bill would have been counter-productive to the interests of orderly industrial progress and responsible industrial relations. To show up their previous proposition one need only point to the fact that of 33 clauses in the original industrial relations Bill only 5 clauses remain unaltered. Yet it was about that original legislation that the Prime Minister, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and other government supporters went around the country saying that that legislation provided the answer to all the problems of industrial relations in this country. 
Of course. One must ask whether they were serious or whether it was an attempt to establish an ambit situation with the trade union movement. In either case, the Government has misled the people of Australia. If it was serious that the legislation, as introduced into the House of Representatives, was necessary for industrial stability- and now we see that only 5 clauses of that legislation- the 5 most puny clauses of it- remain in this legislation, it was fooling the people of Australia and they are now disillusioned. If, however, it was a charade to establish an ambit situation for some negotiated settlement with the trade union movement, all I can say, as one with some experience in industrial negotiations, is that the Government is a very poor bargainer indeed. 
I should like to feel that the Government has considered the matters that have been put to it by a number of people and by honourable senators in the debate on this issue as a matter of public importance in this chamber. Perhaps, it has received advice that some of its original proposals were unconstitutional. I was all prepared to come into this place and to show that under the Constitution the Parliament does not have the power to legislate as was intended by way of the original Bill. 
Let us look at the original clause 4, which attempted to legislate directly in respect of an industrial dispute. Section 5 1 (xxxv) of the Constitution does not clothe the Parliament with that power. As the honourable senator is quite well aware, section 51 (xxxv) of the Constitution entitles the Parliament to make laws with respect to conciliation and arbitration for the prevention and settlement of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State. 
The honourable senator is referring to the Jumbunna case; I understand that. What I am talking about is the original clause 4, which sought to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act in respect to offences by employers in relation to members of organisations. What it attempted to do was to legislate directly in respect of an industrial dispute situation. It is also interesting to note that the Government has deleted not only the clauses to which I have referred but also clauses 4 and 5; it has left in clause 6; it has deleted clauses 7, 8, 9, 10 and 1 1; it has amended slightly clause 12; it has deleted clauses 13, 14 and 15; it has amended slightly clause 16; it has amended clauses 1 7, 1 8 and 1 9; and it has deleted clauses 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 32 and 33. It is an absolute shell of the previous proposition which the Government itself said was necessary to overcome the industrial problems in Australia. 
The Government should never again say that legislation is the panacea to overcome the problems of industrial relations. The Government should bear in mind what I have just said, namely, that if it wants responsible industrial relations it should encourage responsible union leadership. But, of course, we have seen how the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  when simple questions are put time after time, to the Minister representing him in this chamber, is unable to answer those questions. I have asked questions without notice here on one particular subject since February. Only today have I received the answer. It is a matter of substantial importance to the moderate trade unions in this country. Only after 5 months have I received the answer. As an official of the third largest union in Australia, which has always played a responsible role in the councils of the trade union movement, I do not accept that sort of insult. 
It is interesting to speculate about why the Government wants to establish the Industrial Relations Bureau to perform functions which, at the present time, are being performed by the Arbitration Inspectorate. It is either to establish an unwanted bureaucracy or to establish a Bureau with future capacity. If the Bureau is to have future capacity, the Government should come clean now and tell us what that capacity will be. I am in a difficult position. It has been agreed to, so far as the trade union movement is concerned, and I certainly am not one to interfere with the agreement that has been reached in respect of this matter. 
In the short time that is available to me I will deal with the second Bill before us- the Bill which establishes the National Labour Consultative Committee. In this legislation, it is interesting to note, the Consultative Committee is established by statute. That is fairly unusual. Previously, of course, the National Labour Advisory Council was not established by statute. It was a body which met from time to time and discussed problems as they arose. This body which is to be established by statute is to have certain members from the employers and from the unions. The legislation provides also for the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to be the  Chairman  and for the Secretary to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations to be a member. 
What it does not say is why this body has to be established by statute. Why does it have to be established by statute? There is no provision in this Bill for it to make a report to the Parliament. There is no provision, for example - 
It is established under section 125, is it not? 
That is true; but the point I am making is: Why should this Council have to be established by statute? It operated previously as the National Labour Advisory Council and advised the Minister. This Bill appears to establish a Council which comprises the named organisations, the Minister and the Secretary to the Department. They could meet anyway by their own decision, and they could meet on a regular basis. 
If this Council is to be established it ought to have powers to co-opt experts when it is considering matters of vital interest to organisations affected by amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. As I see it, there is no provision in the Bill before us which would enable the Council to do that. There is provision only for the establishment of committees- presumably, consisting of some of the personnel of the Council. I point out to the Senate that the Minister, in his letter to me today after all those months, said that the matter about which I was inquiring on behalf of probably more than one million workers- members of registered industrial organisations will now have to go before the National Labour Consultative Council for its consideration. I am referring to amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act governing organisations registered under the Act. Yet, none of the organisations which will comprise the National Labour Consultative Council are organisations registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Some of the employers may be registered under the Act, but the union organisations certainly are not. I put it to the Senate and to the Minister - 
The National Employers Policy Committee is not; that is correct. I put it to the Senate that the Government should have a good look at this legislation to see whether the National Labour Consultative Council could form expert committees of persons from organisations which would be vitally affected by any amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-I ask the Minister whether, before a matter goes before the Court in respect of a contravention of section 45D, ministerial approval is required. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  The question is: 'That clause 20 stand as printed'. 
I am still not clear on the point I raised. Am I to understand, as I was previously given to understand elsewhere, that really there still will be ministerial control over the operation of proposed section 45d? I know that we are dealing with clause 20 of the Bill which provides that the Commission is to comply with the directions of the Minister and the requirements of the Parliament. I was given information elsewhere that the provisions of proposed section 45  d  would not operate unless approved in particular circumstances by the Minister. Can I be informed whether that is the situation or whether any other person who complains of action taken contrary to proposed section 45d will be able to take the matter to the Court? 
I declare my support for the amendment. I would have thought that it would have been obvious to all, listening to the debate thus far, that there is a great deal of confusion about the clauses in the Bill; that it would be of advantage to everyone if these clauses were to be sent to the appropriate Senate committee for thorough, mature examination. But it appears that the Government has set its face against this course. At this late stage I appeal to the Government to consider whether it is not in the best interests of the implementation of this legislation to refer it to the appropriate Senate committee as a matter of consensus. 
I do not intend to canvass those clauses which have been canvassed more than amply by other members of the Senate. However, I wish to direct the attention of the Senate to proposed section  45d  regarding secondary boycotts. I do that for the same reason as I spoke yesterday. At the moment the Government is engaged in digging its own grave in the way that it is handling industrial relations matters. As I said yesterday in the debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill, the Government appears to be under the impression or to be giving the public the impression that stability in industrial relations can be achieved only by legislation. Again in the name of equality before the law it is amending a section of the Trade Practices Act to deal with matters of an industrial character. 
There are 2 things wrong with that. The first and obvious thing is that already there are ample unused provisions in other statutes which cover the situations which the Government seeks to cover. Secondly, the idea of hoodwinking the public into believing that amending statutes will create stability in industrial relations is a crime against the public. It is a crime not only against the Australian people but also against those within the trade union movement who know the real story, who have fought for years and who are still righting to maintain the integrity of the trade union movement- those very people whom the Government refuses to acknowledge or to consult and whose questions they refuse month after month to answer in this place. 

 - Senator Wright asks: What other statutes?' Yesterday I referred to the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and another member of the Government were going around the countryside saying that the Industrial Relations Bureau legislation was tailor-made to fit the problems which were confronted in Tasmania as a result of the air traffic controllers strike. We have heard them saying again that the amendments contained in proposed section 45d are required. I pointed out yesterday how that statement fell to the ground when it was examined because, as I said, two of the salient features of the Industrial Relations Bureau Bill, as it was originally introduced into the House of Representatives, were the enforcement of a secret strike ballot and an additional ground for deregistration under section 143 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, being on the basis that the union's action was interfering with interstate trade. I proved on that occasion and in that circumstance that the first matterthat is to say, the enforcement of a secret strike ballot- would only have legitimised the extended strike because the air traffic controllers had already conducted a secret ballot, the result of which was to continue their strike indefinitely. Secondly, I pointed out in that instance an additional ground for deregistration by pointing to the fact that when the pilots were threatened with deregistration some years ago they deregistered voluntarily. What did the Government do? It set up a fix-it tribunal called the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal, which gave them a better go than ever they would have had had they retained their registration. 

 Senator Wright asks me to cite other Acts. I refer to section 30J and 30K of the Crimes Act, which are very relevant indeed if the Government thinks that legislation is the answer to all these problems. Let me read what those sections of the Crimes Act provide. Section 30J reads: 
Any person who, during the operation of such Proclamation - 
That is a proclamation made by the GovernorGeneral referred to in sub-section ( 1 )-  takes part in or continues, or incites to, urges, aids or encourages the taking part in, or continuance of, a lock-out or strike- 
in relation to employment in or in connexion with the transport of goods or the conveyance of passengers in trade or commerce with other countries or among the States; shall be guilty of an offence, and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for any period not exceeding one year. 
Section 30k reads: 
Whoever, by violence to the person or property of another person, or by spoken or written threat or intimidation of any kind to whomsoever directed, or, without reasonable cause or excuse by boycott or threat of boycott of person or property - 
obstructs or hinders the transport of goods or the conveyance of passengers in trade or commerce with other countries or among the States; 
compels or induces any person employed in or in connexion with the transport of goods or the conveyance of passengers in trade or commerce with other countries or among the States to surrender or depart from his employment; or 
prevents any person from offering or accepting employment in or in connexion with the transport of goods or the conveyance of passengers in trade or commerce with other countries or among the States, shall be guilty of an offence. 
Penalty: Imprisonment for one year. 
For that occasion the provisions of section 66 of the Public Service Act were also available. All this legislation with draconic powers were available to the Government. Yet the Government goes around the countryside saying that it wants more legislation on the statute books and that that is the way in which there will be a restoration of stability in industrial relations. I believe that that sort of attitude should be exposed, and exposed quickly, before the Government finds that it has painted itself into a corner and has dug its own grave and, worse still from my point of view, the people within the trade union movement, who are the constitutionalists who reject the revolutionary approach- the approach made by the extreme left of the trade union movement - tum it into a political battering ram and find themselves in an untenable position by virtue of the ignorance of the Government. Let me say that that is not only my opinion. 
-It is  Senator Button's  opinion too. It is the opinion of many people. The degree of ineptitude which the Government's Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Prime Minister demonstrated in many of these areas is extraordinary in the extreme. The chickens are coming home to roost. They should know that as a result of the recent elections held by the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association they will soon see where the chickens go home to roost. I do not think honourable senators opposite understand what I am talking about. 
They would not know what I am talking about. 

 - Senator Wright knows. They soon will know what I am talking about. Let me now deal with some of the highfalutin comments that are made from time to time about this proposal. I heard  Senator Missen  defend proposed section  45 d  of the Act on the basis that it provided justice before the law. What nonsense! 
I apologise to  Senator Wright  and to  Senator Hall  because I was not in the chamber when he was speaking. Let me give an example of this so-called justice before the law as it would be applied under proposed section  45D  (3) of the Act. I believe that proposed section  45D(3)  would provide to a ruthless employer the opportunity for monopoly power and unfair advantage over unprotected workers in certain industries. 

 - Senator Tehan interjects: ' What rot! ' Let me give  Senator Tehan  an example. The one that comes to mind is the Fitzroy Flour Mills. Let us say that that firm employs 30 workers. It is known that the boss of that firm is anti-union and that the conditions of employment in the firm are very bad indeed. It is thought by the Federated Millers and Mill Employees Association that, in the interests of maintaining a relative degree of decent working conditions in the flour milling industry, it should unionise that particular flour mill. The Association demands its rights under the award to enter the factory. It speaks to the workers at the time determined by the award, that is, at lunch time. After having spoken to the 20 workers concerned - 
Correction, after having spoken to the 30 workers concerned four of the workers join the union. The rest of them are too scared to join the union because they know the attitude of their boss. This is not an isolated case;  it has  happened hundreds and hundreds of times. Over a period the boss then gets rid of those 4 workers, not in a manner that would attract action under section 5 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, but by giving them notice one every 2 weeks, for example. Everybody knows why it was done but they can not - 
I thank the honourable senator for his interjection; it helps me a lot. They can do it now, but the response the union movement has to such an action will be closed off by proposed new section  45D. 
I ask the honourable senator to allow me to continue. He may tell me afterwards, if he would, how such a response is not closed off. So these 4 members are dismissed. The union then has to go to the Trades Hall Council and say: 'We know these members have been put out of work for that particular reason and we want some united assistance by the trade union movement to overcome the problem'. By the way, the union in such cases might even be urged to do that by other employers in the industry who are doing the right thing and who want to see business operate on a proper and fair competitive basis. 
The Trades Hall Council disputes committee meets. It calls in the representatives of the unions concerned- the Federated Millers and Mill Employees Association, the Transport Workers Union, the Manufacturing Grocers Employees Federation, the Federated Storeman and Packers Union and the 
Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association. They decide then that something must be done about the situation; so they ask the secretary of the Trades Hall Council to get in touch with the manager of the Fitzroy flour milling firm. He tells them where to go in no uncertain terms. It is a not negotiable situation. No provisions are made elsewhere or are available to the union to obtain preference for unionists in that particular firm. So what happens is the Manufacturing Grocers Union, whose members receive the flour to make biscuits, says that it will not touch the flour because it is black as it has been produced by non-union labour forced upon them through fear of their boss. 
I agree with the honourable senator, but they have not gone out. I say this to him in all sincerity: When I was the secretary of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council one of my chief functions was to overcome that very type of industrial dispute. What I am saying is that that sort of action by the unions will be closed off by virtue of the operation of proposed new section  45D  (3) (b). 
The honourable senator said that perhaps the option to take that sort of action should be closed off. The employer would then be given a monopoly control and unfair advantage over employees in a nonunionised shop and there would be no way in which the trade union movement would be able fruitfully to overcome such an industrial dispute. What the legislation would then be doing would be to say to that employer that he could have non-union labour and whatever conditions he liked, and so put him in a better financial competitive position than his other competitors in the industry. That would be done by virtue of the Trade Practices Act which the Government says has been introduced to establish proper competition in industry. 
No, that is where the honourable senator is wrong. 
Not at all. If the honourable senator does not believe me he has that right. I am saying that this sort of dispute took a greater part of my time as the secretary of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council than did a number of other large disputes. 
Yes, but we would have a wages board setting minimum wages and working conditions. But the whole point, which is understood and accepted by everybody from the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Sir John  Moore, to the employer organisations and trade unions and everybody else, is that the day to day management of industrial affairs requires a co-operative spirit with trade unions. It requires trade unions. 
There is an award, but the award - 
That is not so. I do not know whether I have to go back further to have the Government understand the basics of how workers operate on a day to day basis. We have to have a union in a factory in order to ensure that the boss in that factory observes minimum standards and that there is protection for the workers in that factory. I mean protection of the safety of the workers, very often protection of their lives and limbs. By virtue of the operation of this proposed new section  45D  any action which the trade union movement might take to protect on a day to day basis the workers in an industry is closed on". I can only say that the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the trade union movement generally will not accept that. I agree with them that they should not accept it because a legitimate industrial activity is being closed off by a provision inserted in a Bill which is alleged to have the purpose of creating free competition. 
As I mentioned before, the ironical part of my example is that this new legislation will provide the firm which does the wrong thing with an opportunity to be more competitive than its competitors by reason of the fact that it will insulate that firm from unionising its shop. There is supposed to be equality before the law. Let us examine that concept again. Why should the trade unions not have the right to provide protection for those workers who would join the union but do not through fear of losing their jobs, particularly in this time of high unemployment? It is a very real fear and it is a fear which is held by a large number of people. It is a fear which is held particularly by junior workers who comprise such a high percentage of the unemployed and by female workers. I know because I am  President  of the Shop Distributive and Allied Employees Association. I know that this fear exists. If the employer indicates, however slightly, that he does not want the union involved in his shop then, of course, they fear for their jobs. This is supposed to be equality before the law. As  Senator Wright  will appreciate, the Government itself gives to one union compulsory unionism yet it denies that right to every other union. This is contained in the Stevedoring Industry Act which was introduced by a Liberal-National Country Party Government in 1956. The Government itself provides to the Waterside Workers Federation compulsory unionism - 

 - Senator Wright, the unions can certainly do that but that is to establish minimum working conditions and wages. 
We are not talking about that at all. Honourable senators opposite do not understand that the day to day implementation of industrial relations depends on unionisation of the plant. If they cannot understand that, it is no good my talking any further in this place. 

 - Senator Wright, I am loath to do that. Previously I adopted the patient approach by writing to the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  in August of last year setting out certain proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which, I believed, were in the interests of the trade union movement as a whole, of the employers and of stability in industrial relations. What did I get? I got an answer some 5 months later. It was a one page answer containing 3 paragraphs in reply to my detailed letter. The first paragraph said that certain provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to which I had referred were inserted into the Act as a result of a High Court decision. I wrote back to the Minister and said that I was surprised to hear the first law officer of the Crown make the statement when the provisions were inserted before the decision was made by the High Court. Here was the first officer of the Crown ignoring my letter for 5 months and then giving me false information. 
What have I seen happen?  Senator Wright  says that I should not be domineering but month after month in this case I directed valid questions to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Month after month, my questions were ignored by  Mr Street.  I say to you,  Mr President,  and to the Senate that the Government is digging its own grave. Let me illustrate how much the Government believes in equality before the law. I should like to indicate to  Senator Tehan  that the Government provided compulsory unionism for one union- the Waterside Workers Federation- under section 29 of the Stevedoring Industry Act. This legislation was introduced by the Liberal and National Country Party Government and it deals with registration of waterside workers. I am not opposed to it but this illustrates the double standards of the Government. 
-Of course, it is for the furtherance of the object of the Act which states that where a person applies for registration as a waterside worker at a port and that person satisfies the reasonable requirements of fitness, competence and suitability of persons to be registered as waterside workers and is a member or satisfies the Authority that he has applied for membership of the union in relation to the port he can be registered as a waterside worker. Is that equality before the law? I would like to - 
According to  Senator Missen  and according to the second reading speech it has a lot to do with competitiveness and equality before the law. I should like to refer the Senate, particularly honourable senators opposite, to an article I read last night in the monthly magazine  Quadrant  of May 1 977. It is an article written by Peter Westmore entitled Why Political Strikes Work'. I will refer to some excerpts over which honourable senators opposite can chew. It states: 
In the second half of 1977. relations between the Federal Government and the trade unions will be sorely tested by four issues; uranium mining, wage indexation, the federal Government's industrial legislation, and the establishment of an Omega navigation station in Gippsland, Victoria. 
Where individuals or sections of society oppose a decision of government, their only recourse is to try to dissuade the government from pursuing its chosen course. Trade unions, on the other hand, have the power to exercise a practical veto over decisions of governments, using their industrial strength. This is the essence of the political strike. 
At present, most unions do not use their industrial power to veto decisions of governments- even where they vehemently disagree with them. However, there are a number of powerful unions which reject this convention, and strongly assert the right of unions to take any action, within the selfimposed limits of political expediency. Their policy is to broaden the area of industrial action, to the point where it is accepted in the trade union movement that strike action on political issues is a legitimate part of the function of the trade union movement. 
The Medibank strike ... the bans on Indonesian and Chilean trade, green bans and the Newport power house ban have had the effect of widening the 'accepted' area of political activity of unions. Although political strikes have comparatively little support among the general public, they are becoming increasingly respectable with some trade union officials. The explanation is simple: political strikes work'. 
This is the point I emphasise. He wrote: 
Neither governments, nor industrial tribunals, have yet found an effective way of legislating against political strikes, without facing the prospect of massive resistance from the trade union movement. Legislation such as the amendments to the Trade Practices Act and the Arbitration Act, now before Federal Parliament, have aroused opposition across the whole trade union spectrum, because they restrict legitimate trade union activity, as well as abuses of unions' power. The only restraint on the misuse of power by an individual union is the possibility of isolation from the rest of the trade union movement, and the possibility of government action (e.g. deregistration) against the union. 
What idea? 
No, he does not speak as though it is a new idea. He stated: 
Neither governments, nor industrial tribunals, have yet found an effective way of legislating against political strikes, without facing the prospect of massive resistance from the trade union movement. 
He specifically states: 
Legislation such as the amendments to the Trade Practices Act and the Arbitration Act, now before Federal Parliament, have aroused opposition across the whole trade union spectrum, because they restrict legitimate trade union activity, as well as abuses of unions ' power. 
That is the point I was making in my address. That is the very reason this provision will fail and why, unless the Government is prepared to heed the advice which sometimes is given to it but which might well be cut off, it will be digging its own grave. 

 - Senator Wright has done the Senate a great service with his contribution because it has raised for the consideration of the Committee further areas which it did not have previously. Obviously, if  Senator Wright  is correct, we on this side of the chamber should not have the same concern that we have. But we see now that  Senator Wright  seems to be the only honourable senator on the Government side who has applied his mind to the possible effects of proposed section 45D, notwithstanding the fact that  Senator Button, Senator Cavanagh  and myself have, both in our speeches during the second reading debate and in our contributions at the Committee stage, raised a number of points in relation to which we have not received replies from the Minister. 
Indeed. I said we would not have the same concern. We would be concerned all right but not so concerned. Before I vote on this very important and controversial piece of legislation, the consideration of which was put off from last night until the dying hours of this session I would like to know the answers to those matters that were raised. I would like to hear the Minister give a reply, for example, concerning the matter which I raised during the second reading debate, namely, whether the circumstances about which  I  spoke at that time would be covered by proposed section 45D and whether action mentioned under those circumstances would contravene the provisions of proposed section 45D. That is a most important matter and it is a matter in relation to which I seek an answer now. 
Progress reported. 
Declaration of Urgency 
Motion (by  Senator Withers)  agreed to: 
That the Trade Practices Amendment Bill 1977 bc considered an urgent Bill. 
Allotment of Time 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. As the question relates to fundamental rights of the States, I ask the Senate to bear with me because of the length of the question. Is the Minister aware that on 17 October 1975  Mr Justice  Murphy, in his written reasons for the decision in the case the Commonwealth v. the State of Queensland, referred to and quoted from a dispatch sent by the Governor-General to the Governor of Queensland concerning a petition to  Her  Majesty the Queen which had requested a reference to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council? Is the Minister aware that an identical dispatch was sent by the Governor-General to the Governor of Tasmania on 30 January 1974? Is the Minister aware that five days earlier the  Clerk  of the Privy Council informed the Solicitors-General  of Queensland and Tasmania  by cable that he was instructed to advise that  Her  Majesty had accepted the advice of her Ministers in the United Kingdom that the petition relating to off-shore mining rights should not be referred to the Judicial Committee? Does the Minister agree that there is an inconsistency between the dispatches sent by the Governor-General to the Governors of Queensland and Tasmania and the advice conveyed by the  Clerk  of the Privy Council to the Solicitors-General of those States? Will the Minister disclose the precise terms of a message from  Her  Majesty the Queen to the Governor-General in January 1974 which indicated the decision not to refer to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council the petition by the Government of Tasmania concerning questions relating to the seabed adjacent to the coast of that State? What was the substance of that message? If the Minister cannot do that, did that message expressly refer to any of the submissions made to  Her  Majesty by her Australian Ministers. If so, which were the submissions? Does the Minister agree that it is in the public interest that all communications relevant to  Her  Majesty's consideration of the petition be tabled in order that their constitutional implications might be properly evaluated? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
What are the names, places of employment, dates of appointment, and occupations prior to appointment, of inspectors as provided by section 125 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
I regret delaying the Senate. Yesterday at Question Time I raised a question concerning a petition to the Privy Council. In answer to my question, the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  asked that I place the question on notice. I did so but I see that those questions of which notice was given on 16 August this year have not been included in the Notice Paper. 
I handed it in immediately, as a matter of fact. I regret having to raise this matter but I have just observed that fact. Having raised it, I believe it is necessary for me to explain why I raised it. It was as a result of a letter that I wrote to the Premier of Tasmania on 18 July 1977, his reply to me of 26 July 1977 and my subsequent reply to him on 2 August 1977. So as not to delay the Senate and as each of those documents is only one page I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  my letter to the Premier dated 18 July and his reply dated 26 July. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. It concerns those Polish born Australian citizens who served under British command during World War II and were awarded British campaign medals. In view of the Minister's repeatedly expressed sympathy for the morally persuasive case that such ex-servicemen should not continue to be denied Service pension entitlements, why was this discrimination against a handful of ex-servicemen not remedied in last night's Budget. 
I am concerned that I have been called at this time to make a contribution on this vital issue when the guillotine is about to fall. This Bill will have far reaching effects which I am sure the Government has not considered. 
-What.Senator Steele Hall said is right. I give the example of Trans Australia Airways and Ansett Airlines of Australia. Under the definition of Commonwealth authority- this covers TAA- if there is a tanker drivers' dispute the Minister can stand down TAA employees but Ansett employees have the right to have the case heard before arbitration. Therefore, the Government is putting Commonwealth employees at a serious disadvantage. In that respect  Senator Steele  Hall is correct. 
What  Senator Durack  said is most interesting. Had I had the chance to speak in the second reading debate I would have suggested to the Government that in attempting to get at a tiny minority it is steamrollering this Bill through. It will cast the net so broadly that it will place at risk the rights of the vast majority of employees and Public Service departments and instrumentalities. That is where the danger lies. This Bill would not have settled the current postal dispute. In fact, it is essential for postal services to be maintained. It is essential for the unionists in this country that there be regular, reliable communications and postal services. What I was going to suggest and what I now suggest, even at this late stage, is that the Government leave this Bill aside and enable the Australian Post and Telecommunications Union and the Australian Council of Trade Unions to uphold their rules for the conduct and control of industrial disputes with the spotlight of Australia on them. 
I can recall when I was on the ACTU Executive having special executive meetings about the Redfern Mail Exchange. Over many years a number of people there have been called by the union itself anarchists, Marxists and other such terms. The point is that they have a responsibility to ensure that democratic unionism prevails. It is heartening to see that the decision of the APTU has been accepted and that the APTU was determined to enforce its rules by the use of its disciplinary provisions registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That is how disputes are settled. They are not settled in this way. 
I have had a lot of success in doing precisely that. In Tasmania we have stood for the principle of upholding the rules for the conduct and control of industrial disputes. That is why in the short term of my office we had the best industrial record of the whole of the Commonwealth. I am concerned that in this type of legislation the Government is attacking the institution of unionism. This type of legislation creates an unwarranted aura in the minds of the public that industrial disputes can be overcome only by legislation. The public will be badly served if the Government continues to give that impression to them. 

<graphic href="074232197708196_54_5_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074232197708196_54_5_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="074232197708196_54_5_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the negative. 
Amendment negatived. 
Question put. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, refers to the statement made by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions on  PM  last night that a legitimate meeting attacking the Government's Budget was disrupted by the Marxist-Leninist organisation, and the Socialist Workers Party, in Sydney yesterday. Is the Minister aware that in the same program members of the Friends of the Earth organisation admitted to being present and holding up anti-uranium placards on the platform itself about which President Hawke complained? Is he aware also that the Friends of the Earth organisation in seeking donations requests that the donations be forwarded to the Australian Conservation Foundation for transmission to the Friends of the Earth so as to attract concessional tax deductions? If he is aware of that, can he advise the Senate how much of such money is paid to the Australian Conservation Foundation for transmission to the Friends of the Earth society? If he is aware of that, does he consider it to be a legitimate exercise in respect of concessional deductions or is it a loophole which should be closed? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence aware of the statement made by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development that the Army should have a greater commitment in the State of Tasmania? Is he also aware of the concern by the organisers of the Tasmanian Military Tattoo that they are not receiving the commitment that is desired by them for a successful 1 978 Tattoo? Can the Minister please advise the Senate what commitment the Army is prepared to make to the success of the Tasmanian Military Tattoo 1978? 
 Mr President,  pursuant to Standing Order 364I move: 
That the document from which  Senator O  'Byrne has been quoting be laid on the table of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It is not often that I delay the Senate by speaking in the adjournment debate. Tonight, however, I want to raise a matter which is of vital importance to all people of my State, which is of significance to the people of Australia and which deserves to be brought to the attention of the Senate. In this very chamber on 1 1 November 1976  Senator 0  'Byrne launched an unprovoked, vicious, premeditated attack on Bob Watling, the Secretary of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council, and Peter Imlach, the Minutes Secretary of the Council, as well as against myself. I disregarded this attack as just part of his usual obsession. It has now emerged that  Senator 0  'Byrne's November attack, a copy of the words of which I hold in my hand, was part of a prearranged plan to undermine the responsible leadership of the TTLC and pave the way for a pro-communist takeover. 
Tomorrow night these two dedicated unionists face expulsion from the Australian Labor Party on the basis of what  Senator O  'Byrne said here on that day. Actually, a letter of 4 February 1977 from the West Hobart branch requested the Labor Party's rules committee to investigate Bob Watling and Peter Imlach on the basis of evidence 'from documents tabled in the Australian Senate on 11 November 1976'. In point of fact, no documents were tabled in the Australian Senate on that day, other than those tabled by Ministers pursuant to statute, which said nothing about Peter Imlach or Bob Watling. But that is only one of the lesser lies upon which the charges should fail.  Senator 0  'Byrne did, however, make statements in the Senate that day which were designed to cause and which indeed have caused a witch-hunt of Gestapo proportions against those two top Tasmanian trade union officials. 
Whilst I did not consider at the time that a reply was called for, subsequent events have shown that  Senator O  'Byrne's parliamentary attack now invites a series of parliamentary rejoinders by me so that honourable senators may be aware of salient political and industrial facts. In the first of these rejoinders it should be noted that  Senator 0  'Byrne launched his attack after close consultation and collaboration with the extreme Left faction of the ALP. I use that term advisedly. In Launceston the faction includes Tim Thorne and Jim Simmonds, to name just two. I will deal with others in that faction from time to time later. 
Tim Thorne is one of  Senator O  'Byrne's codelegates on the ALP Federal Conference. Jim 
Simmonds is Deputy Chairman of the Bass Electorate Conference and a member of the ALP's foreign affairs committee. Both men consistently aid and espouse the cause and policies of the Communist Party of Australia. In addition, Thorne has paid money into the funds of the Communist Party of Australia, which payment has been acknowledged by the Communist Party's  Tribune.  Simmonds as late as December 1976 attended an exclusive gathering of Communist Party of Australia operatives at Orford in Tasmania. This is the very man who, with his hard Left supporters on the rules committee, relentlessly pursued the witch-hunts against Bob Watling and Peter Imlach. This man, who is in breach of the ALP's rules for aiding and espousing the cause of the Communist Party of Australia, has just been made Chairman of the rules committee which is prosecuting Bob Watling and Peter Imlach. What a travesty and what a mockery of justice that is. 
Seven members of the rules committee laid the charges. Five of them, including Simmonds, are of the hard Left. Who are they? Allan Newitt, the Deputy Chairman of the Wilmot Electorate Council of the ALP, who was not so long ago a well known member of the Communist Party, is one of them. Another is Norm Hanscombe who was imported into Tasmania last year and appointed Secretary of the Miscellaneous Workers Union without a rank and file ballot. He is a member of the ALP's foreign affairs and defence committee. How they like to get onto that committee. That is the same Norman Hanscombe as the one who assisted the private inquiry agents to gather what Gough Whitlam described as perjured evidence against me in 1971. 
Then there are J. Coates and D. Llewellyn, both of whom have track records of consistent support for the Socialist Left.  Senator O  'Byrne would also know that when Communist Party guru Derek Roebuck convened the inaugural meeting of the Australian-Democratic People's Republic of Korea- that is to say communist North Korea- Society,  Senator 0  'Byrne became its Patron and J. Coates became its Vice-Patron. Having secretly assisted in this dirty work, J. Coates and D. Llewellyn have now left the rules committee for fear of the electoral fall-out. Well they might, because both are ALP candidates for the next House of Representatives election. 
This rules committee, rejecting the call by ALP  President  Hawke in Launceston on 19 February this year for unity to throw out the Federal Government and 'not our colleagues within the movement' and defying the plea made by Premier Neilson to drop the charges, pressed on secretly obtaining what they could from a collection of informers whose credibility is zero. Upon whom did they rely? On J. P. Forester, a man charged and found guilty on 24 June 1977 of offences against rules relating to the funds of the Union, fined the maximum amount under the rules and suspended from union membership. They relied on T. Keogh, who describes himself in his statutory declaration against the two charged men as 'a retired trade union official'. Retired my foot! T. Keogh was dismissed from his union position. He tried to proposition organisers and other staff of the union to claim moneys on their expense account over and above those expenses legitimately incurred by them. In other words, he sought to defraud the union to build up the slush fund to pay the Egan mercenaries who are currently engaged in unsuccessful sorties into other unions and States. I do not hear many people coming to the support of the Egan mercenaries at this point in time, particularly as they realise just what Egan is about and just what he has done in New South Walesamalgamating the Australian Workers Union, which incorporated the Shop Assistants Union, with the Building Workers Industrial Union which is controlled by the Socialist Left. 
Indeed, a terrible thing, done behind closed doors without consultation in any shape or form with the rank and file. Des Lavey was the next person persuaded to support  Senator O  'Byrne's attack. Having given evidence which, so far as I am concerned, is false, Des Lavey realised as much and sought, by letter dated 1 June, to backtrack, stating that whilst the rules committee could use his evidence, with reservations, he does 'not wish to become involved further in the current proceedings'. What can be said of him?  His  foolishness is surpassed only by his ingratitude. And for what price? V/as it to have his name not mentioned in this Senate by  Senator O  'Byrne as belonging to an organisation proscribed by the ALP, as alleged in the original Forrester document which  Senator O  'Byrne read on 11 November 1976? A very good friend of mine in the Labor Party gave me a copy of the Forrester document from which  Senator O  'Byrne made his wild allegations in the Senate. 
I hold in my hand a copy - 

 - Senator O'Byrne does not want to hear this, I am sure. But just listen to it. A very good friend of mine in the Labor Party gave me a copy of the Forrester document from which  Senator O'Byrne  made his wild allegations in this Senate. I also hold in my hand a copy of the Forrester document which  Senator O'Byrne  gave to the rules committee. Incidentally it is identical but with the name of the chief witness inked out and the writing 'when thieves fallout'. 
Yes, you wrote that in,  Senator O'Byrne.  You describe the supporters of the allegations against Bob Watling and Peter Imlach as 'thieves'. I am glad you admit it. Who am I to take issue with you on that? 
Finally we come to the disciplinary tribunal which will hear the charges tomorrow night. Whom does the tribunal consist of? It consists of R. D. Mainwaring J. Benson and  Ms G.  Blain.  Ms Blain  and J. Benson are on record as consistently supporting and voting with the Socialist Left at ALP conferences. R. Mainwaring is in the same boat.  His  claim to fame is that he is  President  of the Building Workers Industrial Union and of course,  President  of the Australia-Soviet Friendship Society- an organisation which has close links with the KGB. The axes are indeed sharpened. The decision of the tribunal tomorrow night is entirely predictable. Little wonder that the TTLC secretary, Bob Watling, has called for an unbiased public inquiry into the whole of this unseemly episode. Is it any wonder that Bert Lacey, whom all honourable senators will know as a former senator in this place, a man who has served the trade union movement and the Labor Party with distinction, dedication and selfsacrifice for more than 50 years, was moved to come to that meeting last night in support of Watling and Imlach to make a speech full of courage and based on a logical understanding of Labor tradition.  His  speech, made to 160 representatives of 29 unions in Hobart last night, called on Bob Watling to boycott the kangaroo court tomorrow night, for the reasons to be sent in writing and for a firm stand to be taken against the pro-communist takeover bid. That meeting went on to make two declarations unanimously. It declared: 
That the underhanded methods used to bring alleged charges against TTLC Secretary Bob Watling and Peter Imlach, the denial to them of their rights and adequate notice, the breaches of ALP rules which have been perpetrated by the Rules Committee and the tribunal are so fundamentally opposed to natural justice and the good name of the Party as to require the firmest challenge. 
Because of the association and voting record of members of the Disciplinary Tribunal with those on the Rules Committee who instigated the charges, that tribunal is incapable of objective and fair judgment and is properly termed a kangaroo court', whose decision is totally predictable. 
Such tribunal derives its strength only from the ease with which the accused can be entangled in its fraudulent processes. 
We therefore call upon Bob Watling, particularly in view of the absence of Peter Imlach, to consider whether his appearance before such a tribunal would only aid the kangaroo court, bring discredit on the Labor Party which is committed tO justice and fair play. 
Formal advice tendered by senior counsel asserts that a hearing on 7th September - 
Which is tomorrow-  by the tribunal would be unconstitutional and invalid and we recommend to TTLC Secretary Watling that he boycotts the kangaroo court. 
The meeting also supported the call made by Bob Watling on Friday last for an unbiased public inquiry into the whole of the unseemly episode. The second resolution I think ought to be detailed to the Senate. Honourable senators should bear in mind that this attack arose from the attack made by  Senator O'Byrne  on 11 November last. This is the response of the members of the organisation: 
This meeting or representatives of 29 Unions declares that if the attacks on Bob Watling and Peter Imlach are allowed to succeed the result will lead to the destruction of the Tasmanian Labor Government and Labor's chance in the forthcoming Federal Election and will pave the way for a procommunist takeover of the TTLC. 
If some honourable senators on this side have an interest in a pro-communist takeover of the trade union movement they at least should heed the other part of that resolution declaring that it those two top officials are axed it will lead to the destruction of the Labor Government in Tasmania and Labor's chances in the next Federal election. The resolution went on: 
No genuine unionist or person interested in the Labor Movement can stand by and allow this to occur. We declare that the organised Trade Union Movement is prepared to stand by Bob Watling and Peter Imlach and to defend itself against the persistent attacks launched by the extreme left aided and abetted by informers. 
It finally made this call to members of the Parliamentary Labor Party: 
Members of the Parliamentary Labor Party are called upon to join with the responsible members of the Trade Union Movement in repelling these attacks. 
The challenge is there. How many will take it up? 

 - Mr President, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Harradine  moving a motion to discuss the document now tabled as referred to in the President's ruling. 
It is a tainted document and is to be used against two people in the State of Tasmania this evening. 
I move that motion because this is a very serious matter - 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to have the document which I tabled incorporated in  Hansard. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to table a copy of the original document of which  Senator 0  'Byrne's tabled document purports to be a copy. 
 This is not merely a technical matter. It is a matter of grave importance. Last night I moved, pursuant to Standing Order 364 - 
That is precisely to what I am referring. In your statement,  Mr President,  you make mention of the fact that last night I moved a motion pursuant to Standing Order 364. That is all I have stated thus far.  Senator Georges  is attempting to cut me off in mid stream. The  Hansard  record will show that that is precisely what I have said up to this point in time. I repeat: Last night I moved, pursuant to Standing Order 364, that the document from which  Senator O  'Byrne had been quoting be laid on the table of the Senate. That motion was adopted.  Senator O  'Byrne, as you said  Mr President,  tabled page 1 of the document last night. I stated at that time that SenatorO 'Byrne detached that page from the document from which he was quoting containing several pages. That was confirmed by  Senator Baume  and observed by a number of other honourable senators. The question of what constitutes a document was left for you,  Mr President,  to rule on, which you have done today. An inspection of the page tabled by SenatorO 'Byrne last night clearly revealed that it did not constitute the complete document. If we are going to talk about what should be tabled when an honourable senator moves a motion pursuant to Standing Order 364 we should examine what constitutes a complete document. 
As I mentioned, I am supporting the motion that the Senate takes note of your ruling. It will be indicated clearly that what I have said up to date refers to your ruling,  Mr President.  I am only supporting what you have said in your ruling. Indeed, I am proving your ruling to be correct- that the single page of the document was not the complete document. It is clear that the latter pages of the document were provided to you after the adjournment of the Senate last evening. 

 -Mr President, that is precisely what I am supporting. I am supporting your ruling on the basis that the complete document was not tabled last evening. Had your ruling been in operation last evening, had you made the ruling at the time and had the document been tabled then, I would have been able to look at the document and to see what I see now- that is, that it is a tainted, doctored document. 

 President, did not rule last night.  Senator Harradine  is saying that you should have ruled last night and that if you had ruled last night  Senator Harradine  could have had access to the document. That is his complaint. It is not a valid complaint. It is a reflection on the Chair. What the honourable senator is now endeavouring to do is to get to that document and make comments about it. Really, what someone should be doing at the present time is moving the motion I attempted to move previously, namely, that the debate should be adjourned and that your ruling,  Mr President,  should not be canvassed. It should be referred to the responsible committee. Later on, we can have a debate on the matter. 
That the Senate take note of the ruling. 
-I concede that,  Mr President. 
All Papers and Documents laid upon the Table of the Senate shall be considered public. Papers not ordered to be printed may be inspected at the Office of the Senate at any time by Senators, and, with permission of the  President,  by other persons, and copies thereof or extracts therefrom may be made. 

 Senator Harradine has the original of  Senator O  'Byrne's document. I want you to rule whether he is in direct breach of Standing Order 362 because, according to Standing Order 362,  Senator Harradine  has no right under the Standing Orders of the Senate to have in his possession the original document which was tabled by  Senator O'Byrne.  I ask you to rule accordingly. 
All Papers and Documents laid upon the Table of the Senate shall be considered public. Papers not ordered to be printed may be inspected at the Office of the Senate at any time by Senators, and with permission of the  President,  by other persons, . . . 

 - Mr President, I accept your ruling. Since I have the original document - 
He does not want to hear it. 
Since I have the original document - 
-Senator O'Byrne does not want to hear it. 
All Papers and Documents laid upon the Table of the Senate shall be considered public. Papers not ordered to be printed may be inspected at the Office of the Senate at any time by Senators, and, with permission of the  President,  by other persons, and copies thereof or extracts therefrom may be made. 
Previously we had a ruling of the Standing Orders Committee relating to a document which had to be documented, stamped and registered by the  Clerk  so that its authenticity could be supported continuously. This present document has gone into the hands of a senator who has immediately branded it as being tainted. He is tainting it himself now. It is out of the hands of the  Clerk.  We have no proof of what he might do to that document. He stole it from my office in the first place and quoted from it last night. It is in  Hansard  where he quoted from that document last night. 

 - Mr President, I object to that. 

 -Yes, Mr President. I take serious objection to that term. 
I take - 
I would be most happy to do that because I happen to have a copy of the original, untainted version of the document. I have been challenged here and I demand a right to give an explanation. 
Until this time that is precisely what I have done. I have supported the motion. I have spoken to the motion, 'That the Senate take note of the ruling', and that it be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. Because I have the original of  Senator O  'Byrne's tabled document, as amended, I move the following amendment to the motion: 
At end of motion, add and that it, together with the documents tabled by  Senator O'Byrne,  be referred to the Standing Orders Committee. 
In speaking to my amendment to the motionI believe I should continue with what I was saying. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation in respect of the comment made by  Senator O'Byrne  about stealing. I have the factual evidence and I can retail where - 
I take objection to that statement. 
It was repeated then. 
-It was repeated then. 
In speaking to my amendment, I feel that it is vital at this point of time to ensure that justice is done. A large number of people - 
What is happening at present is that a great deal of emotion is being brought into the debate. All sorts of charges and countercharges are being made. One senator is getting very close to the point where the Senate may have to deal with him. That has not happened in this place for a very long time. Therefore,  Mr President,  I am asking you to rule that what  Senator Harradine  is doing by way of this amendment is moving away from the original motion, which I do not think- I hope you will agree- is subject to amendment. 
What I am concerned about is that the document to which  Senator Harradine  's amendment refers is in fact a ruling, a reasoned ruling, given by you on what transpired last evening in the Senate over a document. In my view, it is an affront to you for an honourable senator to move an amendment to the original motion that the Senate take note of the statement in the terms in which  Senator Harradine  has moved his amendment which is that this statement- in other words, your ruling-be referred to the Senate Standing Orders Committee. I can place on that no interpretation other than that he wants the Standing Orders Committee of the Senate to examine your ruling. I am sure that that is completely contrary to the normal custom, practice and accepted procedures of the Senate. Out of respect to you,  Mr President,  as  President  for the time being, and to the Chair now and in the future, I ask you to rule that on the grounds I have stated the amendment is out of order. 
Frankly, neither was I. 
There certainly is not. 
If you let me speak, I will let you know. 
-It has been seconded already. 
Yes, it has been seconded. 
-It has been seconded by  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Walters. 
Motion (by  Senator Georges)  proposed: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Obviously  Senator Grimes  has not carefully read the material that I placed before the Senate last night. It was prepared by me largely from material that is of a public character. For example, taking the last mentioned person first,  Senator Grimes  ought to look at what I said about Tim Thome. All that  Senator Grimes  has done tonight has been to detail the religion of some of the people concerned, to inject a note of sectarianism, if you like, into this matter. I judge people by their fruits and by their fruits one knows them. The facts are that some of the people who currently are supporting the attempts to get rid of two loyal members of the trade union movement in the Labor Party in Tasmania were mentioned by me last night. There are, of course, others. The ones I mentioned were relevant to that particular parliamentary answer of mine that was invited by the parliamentary attack made by  Senator O'Byrne  on 11 November 1976. All of those whom I mentioned are supporters of the policies of the hard left, and that has not been denied by  Senator Grimes  tonight. 
What I said last night, I stand by. I suggest that  Senator Grimes  look carefully at what I said. For example, what I said in respect of Tim Thorne is a matter of public record.  His  donation to the Communist Party of Australia is a matter of public record, acknowledged by the Communist Party  Tribune.  So far as John Coates is concerned, that also is a matter of public record, printed in the Press and never denied by John Coates. There are other matters that ought to be considered. For example,  Senator Grimes  said: If Newitt was a member of the Communist Party, so what?' Presumably now he is a member of the Labor Party.  Senator Grimes's  own organisation's rule 9 (b) proscribes members of the Communist Party from being members of the Labor Party. 
-It is rule 9(b) of  Senator Grimes's  organisation. I was a member of the Labor Party for much longer than  Senator Grimes  has been a member. Rule 9(b) of the Labor Party states that members cannot be members of the Party if they are members, or supporters, or espouse the cause of, proscribed organisations. Two of those organisations are the Communist Party and the National Civic Council. I think the Protestant Democratic Movement and the National Union of Railwaymen - 

 - Senator O'Byrne says 'Another scabby job'. Members of that union will be interested in that. So the Labor Party has one rule for ex-members of the Communist Party and another rule for people who, on the principle of guilt by association, it alleges are members of the NCC. That is the type of justice we can expect from  Senator Grimes.  I am not surprised that  Senator Grimes  has been put into the breach tonight to do what he did.  Senator Grimes  relies on these people for his preselection and he knows it.  Senator Grimes  also was the very man whom these people put into the breach at the ALP State conference in 1975 to move a motion against me. That resolution was not only a condemnation and an attempt to get the ALP Federal Executive to cut my throat but also was condemnatory of the Labor Party, the State Conference and the State Executive of the Tasmanian Labor Party at that time. 
I remind  Senator Grimes  that the Labor Party at that time passed a resolution that I was a valued member of the Party. That was on the books of the Labor Party, and also on the books of the Labor Party was the statement that if the sort of action  Senator Grimes  wanted to take against me took place then it would have disastrous electoral consequences on the Labor Party itself. That is what the resolutions were and indeed, what has happened? Precisely that. When I was a member of the Labor Party we held the five House of Representatives seats in Tasmania. After the expulsion, all of those seats were lost. I should like to remind  Senator Grimes  that there was a vast difference also between the percentage of votes in the Senate for the ALP in Tasmania at the last Senate election and the percentage at the previous election. If the Labor Party and  Senator Grimes  seek to continue their witch hunts that have been perpetrated against loyal members of the trade union movement in that State then they have got it coming to them electorally. I take pity on  Senator Grimes  because he really does not know anything about the trade union movement. How can he? Of course, he is a member of the Australian Medical Association but he is not a member of any other union. 

 - Senator O'Byrne says that  Senator Grimes  is a member of some other union. I would be interested to know of what other union he is a member, how its constitution covers him, and whether his being a member of that union unconstitutionally raises the question of the validity of that particular organisation. I take pity on  Senator Grimes  because he does not understand the issue that is involved. The issue is simply control of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. Not  Senator Grimes  but others who make the bullets for him know that if they can get control of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council then the policy direction of the whole of the trade union movement in the whole of Australia is at stake. Rule 14(b) of the Australian Council of Trade Unions' rules provides that no policy can be binding on the trade union movement if altered by the ACTU Executive between congresses unless it receives endorsement by four of the six 
State branches of the ACTU. The procommunist Left need one more vote and that is why all of the guns are aimed at the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. 

 Senator GRIMES (Tasmania)-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, refers to the year that the United Nations observes about every second year. In 1979 it is to be the United Nations International Year of the Child. Are the ministries of Education and Health effectively involved in the planning for the Year? Can the Minister give the reason why the planning for this Year has been allocated to the ministry of Social Security? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1) Is the Prime Minister aware that on 17 October 1975  Mr Justice  Murphy, in his written reasons for the decision in the case,  The Commonwealth  v.  The State of Queensland,  referred to and quoted from a dispatch sent by the Governor-General General to the Governor of Queensland concerning a petition to Her Majesty the Queen which had requested a reference to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that an identical dispatch was sent by the Governor-General to the Governor of Tasmania on 30 January 1974. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that live days earlier the  Clerk  of the Privy Council informed the Solicitors-General of Queensland and Tasmania by cable that he was instructed to advise that  Her  Majesty had accepted the advice of her Ministers in the United Kingdom that the petition relating to offshore mining rights should not be referred to the Judicial Committee. 
Does the Prime Minister agree that there is an inconsistency between the dispatches sent by the GovernorGeneral to the Governors of Queensland and Tasmania and the advice conveyed by the  Clerk  of the Privy Council to the Solicitors-General of those States. 
Will the Prime Minister disclose the precise terms of a message from  Her  Majesty the Queen to the GovernorGeneral in January 1974 which indicated the decision not to refer to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council the petition by the Government of Tasmania concerning questions relating to the sea-bed adjacent to the coast of that State; if not, will the Prime Minister indicate whether the message expressly refers to any of the submissions made to  Her  Majesty by her Australian Ministers. 
Which were the submissions. 
Does the Prime Minister agree that it is in the public interest that all communications relevant to Her Majesty's consideration of the petition be tabled in order that their constitutional implications might be properly evaluated. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. As will be recalled, last year I asked a number of questions relating to the International Year of the Child. Is she now in a position to give further information to the Senate concerning the Government's plans for the International Year of the Child? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry concerns a statement by  Mr Sinclair  who was reported in today's Press as saying: Under Federal law compulsory unionism cannot be enforced'. Is the Minister aware that, under section 29 of the Stevedoring Industry Act 1956, the Liberal-National Country Party 
Government makes membership of the Waterside Workers Federation compulsory for any person seeking registration as a waterside worker? Are we to take it from the Minister's remarks that the Government is about to repeal that section; or is the Minister aware of any Government acquiescence, in the current review of the stevedoring industry, in moves to force clerks, foremen stevedores and others out of their own unions and into the Waterside Workers Federation under a misguided notion of industry unionism, thus creating monopoly control on Australia's waterfront, a subject in which I would have thought farmers would be most interested. 
My question also is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Has the Government this week made a decision as to the future of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd, upon the operations of which on the west coast of Tasmania a lot of people depend? If so, will the Minister give the Senate details of that decision? 
Before speaking to the Governor-General's Speech, I should like to congratulate  Senator Haines  on her maiden speech and on her entry into the work of the Senate. Having done so, I turn my attention to the Governor-General's Speech. In the 20 minutes I have given myself to speak I would like to deal with two aspects of the Governor-General's Speech. They appear on page 2, where he talks about a 'better society', and on page 3, where he talks about inflation and unemployment. The Government, through the Governor-General, had this to say on page 2: 
Its fundamental belief - 
That is, the Government's fundamental belief-  is that a better society can only be realised by giving the men and women of Australia a greater measure of choice, power and freedom. 
This process has begun, as may be seen in my Government's reforms in the areas of taxation, social welfare and its constitutional and legal reforms. 
I would have thought that, in talking about its belief that there should be a better society, the Government would have said something about the fundamental unit of society, namely, the family. I note with a great deal of pleasure that many honourable senators who have spoken before me and, indeed, many members of the House of Representatives have used the occasion of the Address-in-Reply debate to talk about the family and the fact that the family is under pressure and the Government is doing very little about it. One need only look at, for example, the pressure on mothers to go out to work, and the discrimination felt by single income families in relation to taxation, et cetera. These matters have been dealt with adequately by other senators and by some members of the House of Representatives. I invite honourable senators, the public and the Government in particular to examine the Hansard record of the speeches. 
In relation to unemployment, I read from page 3 of the Governor-General's statement. He stated: 
My Government rejects the notion that there can be a trade-off between inflation and unemployment. It will continue to give the highest priority to reducing inflation, for only in this way can there be a sustained reduction in unemployment. 
That is only half the story. The fact is that one of the Government's own experts in the field-  Mr Paul  Kirby, the First Assistant Secretary, Manpower and Economic Policy, in the Department of Employment and Industrial Relationswarned as long ago as August 1976 in an address to the first National Conference on Technical and Further Education that it has long been recognised that insufficient resources and attention have been given to the study of the nature of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, in Australia. This is in contrast to the ministerial 'beat inflation first' line.  Mr Kirby  made the very sobering comment that youth unemployment can be expected to persist, in a greater or lesser degree, irrespective of economic recovery and improved labour demand. What does the Government say about this? All it is saying is: 'Reduce inflation first and that will solve the unemployment problem'. 
With unemployment in Australia exceeding 7 per cent of the work force for the first time in more than 40 years and with half the unemployed under 21 years of age, the Commonwealth Government must now assign a senior Minister to the sole responsibility of analysing the nature and breaking the back of the structural unemployment problems that are besetting Australia. When the unemployment figures have been posted each month, how often have we heard calls for conferences or platitudes by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  about reducing inflation first? These calls for conferences and the platitudes by the Minister about reducing inflation first give little hope to the unemployed, who have heard it all before. 
That the situation now confronting Australia can lead to long term dangers for Australia is now recognised not only by the trade union movement but also by the employers. The Director-General of the National Employers Consultative Council,  Mr George  Polites, said the week before last: 
If this situation is allowed to continue for any extended period, the economic costs will pale into insignificance compared to the price we will eventually pay in terms of social, economic and political disruption and dislocation. 
The fact that half of the unemployed are under 2 1 years of age highlights the gravity and structural nature of the problem of unemployment. The 'call a conference' and political points scoring syndrome must be broken. The Commonwealth Government, in recognition of the gravity of the problem, should ensure that a senior Cabinet Minister has the sole responsibility for employment and related matters and for devising, in conjunction with State counterparts, programs to break the back of unemployment. 
At present employment and related matters, in the words of the Norgard report on the Commonwealth Employment Service, is the 'poor relation' of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and does not receive the attention it both deserves and needs. In times of high unemployment and inflation it is too much to expect one Minister to handle the crucial responsibilities of both employment and industrial relations. The current Minister's dogged but unimpressive performance is witness to that fact. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  should relieve the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  of his responsibilities in the vital area of industrial relations and transfer them to an upgraded ministry of industrial relations, business and consumer affairs. This would enable  Mr Street  to concentrate solely on the employment aspects of his portfolio and associated manpower development, employment program, labour market research, industrial training and related employment matters. No one doubts that a flood of serious industrial relations problems will arise this year requiring better attention than can be given by a hard pressed and overworked Minister faced with record unemployment. It has long been recognised that insufficient resources and attention have been given to the study of the nature of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, in Australia. As I have mentioned before, Paul Kirby, the Department's First Assistant Secretary, Manpower and Economic Policy Division, in stark contrast to the usual ministerial beat inflation first' attitude, made the sobering comment that youth unemployment can be expected to persist in a greater or lesser degree irrespective of economic recovery and improved labour demand. 
I am sorry that the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  is not in the chamber because, as  Senator Haines  said, much of the problem can be sheeted home to the education systems and the quality of education in Australia today. This has been pointed out by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties whose  Chairman,  Alan Cadman, released the results of a survey which showed that more than half the nation's illiterates are aged between 15, the minimum age in the literacy test, and 25. Twenty five per cent of 14-year- olds tested could not cope with reading a newspaper. I think they may be lucky there in some respects. Fifty per cent of the 14-year-olds were incapable of writing a job application letter. Four per cent of the 1 4-year-olds could not subtract 9 from 17 or multiply 6 by 7 or divide 56 by 7. Only 18 per cent of 10-year-olds tested were able to transcribe a passage of 48 words without errors of spelling or fact. That is not a political point of view. Race Mathews, the former Federal Labor MP who also chaired that Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties, came to similarly depressing conclusions. He was reported in the Melbourne  Age  on 18 February 1976 assaying: 
Up to 40 per cent of children in Forms 1 and 2 in Australian secondary schools have severe difficulty in reading their own language with any real fluency and comprehension. 
He added:  up to 20 per cent are, for all practical purposes, unable to read at all. ' 
Yet we are supposed to see youth unemployment reduce if inflation is reduced. Of course it is important to tackle inflation. I do not deny that. I think it is most important. But let us ensure that consideration is given to other aspects. This is why I make an appeal to the Government and the Prime Minister to relieve  Mr Street  of the industrial relations aspects of his portfolio so that he can concentrate on the employment aspects of this vital time. 
It is not without significance that there is a correlation between the increase in juvenile unemployment since the mid- 1 960s and the increase in the number of married women entering the work force during the same period. The problem cannot be solved by discriminating against married women in the work force, as some have suggested; rather, the solution lies in Government financial measures which will recognise the economic worth of the homemaker, contribution to family support programs and thus reverse the economic discrimination now experienced by single income families. If those programs are adopted the majority of married women in the work force who, according to recent surveys such as those conducted by the Brotherhood of St Laurence and the Electrical Trades Union, have been forced to enter the work force through economic pressure will have a true freedom of choice and the option to leave jobs, thus creating employment opportunities for the young. It would give them the option to do the most important job in this world, bringing up future citizens of this country, and would remove the undue discrimination which they experience at present. Furthermore, there are thousands of young married women who want to leave the work force and start a family but cannot do so because of housing finance problems. I note that the Governor-General had something to say about housing. I hope that the Government will ensure the ready supply of finance in some way to young couples for building their own homes. 
The call-a-conference syndrome reflects a need for a permanent consultative body consisting of the States, employers and unions to advise a Minister who is solely responsible for employment and related matters. I come back to my previous point that it is about time we had a Minister solely responsible for employment matters. It is too much for the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in a time of high unemployment and inflation to do the two jobs. It was all right when the Ministry was Labour and National Service. There was no problem there. It was a pushover then, but not now. The Minister should be relieved of the industrial relations aspect of his portfolio and it should be given to an upgraded ministry of industrial relations and business and consumer affairs so as to enable  Mr Street  to concentrate on the employment aspects of his portfolio. 
The reports I mentioned also highlighted the fact that the Government should have a realistic  look at the causes of the problem. I am concerned that the advice that is being given to the Government, for example in the area of women's affairs, comes from people who do not have the home experience, the motherhood experience, that is necessary to give a balanced view to the Government on women's affairs. From this advice are policies for family support coming forward? No. We have seen the Government appointing as its women's adviser such people as Sara Dowse, who has latterly departed. Sara Dowse was selected in March 1 976 to head the office of Women's Affairs in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. It was a Public Service appointment and the newspapers at the time said that  Mr Fraser  had nothing to do with it. However, it is interesting to note that the Department obviously considered and gave a great deal of weight to what she said. I will enlighten the Senate by reading a parable by Sara Dowse- it was given to a conference of the Women's Electoral Lobby in Canberra between 17 and 19 February 1978- so that the Government knows what type of people are advising it. This is a parable about ' the witch who came in from the cold'. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard.  I am sure it will make most interesting reading. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

THE WITCH WHO CAME IN FROM THE COLD 
A parable by Sara Dowse 
Once upon a time, in the court of the ancient but alas short-lived kingdom of Craminalot, there was a ladyinwaiting, who looked after the king's bride price, and other matters to do with marriage and kinship in the kingdom. The lady-in-waiting was very busy with her work, and impressed the king with her wisdom and sensitivity and knowledge of tribal customs and lore. She was especially skilled in magic, which the demands of her position forced her to call upon a great deal. For otherwise she would not have been able to get her work done at all. After a particularly busy harvest, this lady-in-waiting was sorely in need of a rest from her labours, and the king himself worried for her health. It was at this time that she was able to persuade him that she needed assistance, and he commanded her to fetch several wise women in the kingdom, to help her in her work. 
Now it should be explained that there was at this time a very powerful magic in the kingdom. This was the year that the king decreed that all the girl babies born would be allowed to live, rather than insisting mothers abandon every second new-born female child, as was the custom in the kingdom. And just outside the palace walls there grew a tree of magic, and in that year that tree of magic, which was tended well by all the women in the kingdom, grew many leaves and branches, and the branches brought forth a profusion of purple flowers. The king's lady-in-waiting brought in several wise women to serve with her, but most of the wisest women stayed outside the palace to tend the magic tree. 
At the king's court, things were very busy. The ladyinwaiting and her handmaidens were able to convince the king that many changes needed to be made in the laws of the kingdom, and the king proclaimed that this would be done. There was much rejoicing in the land, among the women who had been for many years unjustly treated, and they thanked the king for his special concern. But inside the palace many of the other courtiers began to be envious of the lady-in-waiting, and of the king's confidence in her. They began to wonder whether it was right that so much attention should be given to females, and gossiped that such diversion was sapping the lung's strength. 
And it was true that the king was being called upon to perform great and prodigious feats. Throughout the land a famine had begun to spread, and the people had to pay higher and higher prices for their grain. The king 's enemies grew stronger, and fed upon the rising discontent. Black knights roamed the countryside, spreading news.of death and disaster, and the people became afraid. The king grew restless and irritable and impatient with those around him. He began to doubt the counsel of his lady-in-waiting, for others in the court would whisper in his ear, telling him that she had tricked him into flouting the gods, for wasn't it true that females were inferior beings that needed to be checked, and that all those girl babies were bringing plague and pestilence to the land? The king grew angrier and angrier, for he was by now truly afraid, and he was not a man used to fear. He began to believe that lady-in-waiting's detractors and suspect her of foul dealings and black magic, and finally, in a moment of great anger, banished her from the kingdom. Away she went in the night, and when morning came her handmaidens were puzzled about what to do. 
They did not have long to make any plans, for one night after a long siege on the palace by the king's enemies, a traitor in the palace opened the door to the angry populace, and in their fear and desperation they slaughtered the good king. 
The palace was very still and quiet when the leader of the black knights came. Some of the king's courtiers left, but some stayed on to preserve what they could of the kingdom of Craminalot, and some, it is sad to tell, stayed on to get the black knight's favours. 
The handmaidens were very busy, guarding the secret treasures, and doing what they could to protect the just laws that the king had decreed. They feared for the safety of the girl babies, and drew up elaborate and secret strategies for resistance. Outside the palace, the women mourned the loss of their lady-in-waiting, and worried about their fate under the new regime. They knew that the handmaidens were still in the palace, but knew too that they would be powerless. New ladies-in-waiting would come, more rich and powerful than the old, but perhaps not so wise. 
But the handmaidens had the magic, and so were able for a time to ward off the evil spirits spreading through the castle. One night their chief took a small twig from the tree of magic, outside the palace walls, and for months thereafter was able to weave spells that protected parts of the palace and the law. The success of the handmaidens was remarked upon, and soon some of the other courtiers came to them for guidance, and they interpreted their dreams. But it was very dangerous, and the handmaidens knew there would come a time when they might have to quit the palace altogether, and take their magic with them. 
In the meantime the women in the land grew more alarmed. There was little news of what was happening in the palace, for the rule of the black knight was very secretive, and the handmaidens did not want to draw attention to what they were doing. Many women feared to leave their houses. Others were busy looking after the girl babies who, it was feared, might all be slaughtered. And outside the palace walls, the tree of magic began to wither, for the women were not coming to care for it. Some women came to break off branches, and these they put across the thresholds of their houses, or over the cradles of girl babies, to ward off evil spirits. Fewer and fewer women came to the tree, and those that did kept breaking off the branches, in the hope that these would guide and protect them wherever they might be. 
One day the chief of the handmaidens noticed that someone had broken into the store of secrets they had guarded for many months. Soon after, some of the handmaidens took ill, and went off with friends of the black knight. Soon the castle was filled with bad omens, and the chief of the handmaidens knew that the time was drawing near. The twig of magic drooped in her hand, its leaves curled and withered, and she looked out the palace window and saw that the great tree, too, had begun to drop its leaves. There were no more blooms and it looked as though its very sap was running dry. 
Throughout the kingdom the famine continued, but the people grew more fearful still, forgot their sorrow in jousts and tournaments and in the taverns, and turned away from the suffering of their fellows. And tacked to every post and tree were notices villifying the old king, many months after he had gone. The black knight was now the king and the people were resigned, and believed that it was probably best to go back to the old ways. 
And then the black knight ordered that the handmaidens be sent to a chamber in a far corner of the palace, away from the throne room and far from the other courtiers. And there they were to be held prisoners, because he was sure that they had lost their magic. 
But lo and behold, their chief escaped. For many weeks they had laboured to build a small bridge from the window of the palace across the high walls to the tree outside. And though the tree was weak and dying, it supported her climb to safety. 
And soon the word spread that the handmaidens were captive in the palace and that only the women could save them, and save themselves. And they came, from all parts of the kingdom, with their girl babies in their arms, and their new wisdom, and dug trenches around the tree of magic, and brought water, and cow's dung, and all the old branches they had pulled from its trunk. And they danced round the tree and sang the old ritual incantations, and prayed for strong limbs and green foliage, for they knew that without their tree of magic, they would all surely perish. 
Distributed at WEL National Conference Canberra 1 7- 1 9 February, 1978. 
I do not think it is necessary to attach a glossary but I will try to assist. This is a parable by Sara Dowse about ' the witch who came in from the cold '. It reads: 
Once upon a time, in the court of the ancient but alas short-lived kingdom of Craminalot - 
That was the kingdom of Gough Whitlam, no doubt- there was a lady-in-waiting, who looked after the king's bride price, and other matters to do with marriage and kinship in the kingdom. The lady-in-waiting - 
Presumably that is Liz Reid- was very busy with her work, and impressed the king with her wisdom and sensitivity and knowledge of tribal customs and lore. She was especially skilled in magic, which the demands of her position forced her to call upon a great deal. For otherwise she would not have been able to get her work done at all. After a particularly busy harvest this ladyinwaiting was sorely in need of a rest from her labours, and the king himself worried for her health. It was at this time that she was able to persuade him that she needed assistance, and he commanded her to fetch several wise women in the kingdom, to help her in her work. 
The parable then tells of a magic tree outside the court- this being the Women's Electoral Lobby. The parable continues: 
At the king's court, things were very busy. The ladyinwaiting and her handmaidens were able to convince the king that many changes needed to be made in the laws of the kingdom, and the king proclaimed that this would be done . . . 
And it was true that the king was being called upon to perform great and prodigious feats - 
The king, of course, being  Mr Whitlam- 
Throughout the land a famine had begun to spread - 
I assume that the famine refers to inflation- and the people had to pay higher and higher prices for their grain. The king's enemies grew stronger, and fed upon the rising discontent. Black knights roamed the countryside, spreading news of death and disaster, and the people became afraid. The king grew restless and irritable and impatient with those around him. He began to doubt the counsel of his lady-in-waiting, for others in the court would whisper in his ear ... He began to believe the ladyinwaiting's detractors and suspect her of foul dealings and black magic, and finally, in a moment of great anger, banished her from the kingdom ... a traitor in the palace opened the door to the angry populace, - 
I assume that refers to  Sir John  Kerr- 
The palace was very still and quiet when the leader of the black knights came - 
That, I assume, was the worthy Prime Minister who accepted much of her advice. Honourable senators ought to read the parable. I am wasting my time reading this sort of nonsense but it is most interesting to see how it continues. It reads:  . . And then the black knight ordered that the handmaidens be sent to a chamber in a far corner of the palace - 
I imagine that refers to the banishment of the Women's Affairs Office from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to the Department of Home Affairs. 
I have had the parable incorporated in  Hansard.  The honourable senator can judge for himself. The point I am making is that the Government must have a balance in the advice that it receives on family matters and women 's issues. If I understand correctly what I hear from my constituents they are concerned about what is happening to the family. The advice coming from these sources is destructive of the principles of family life. I wish the Minister for Education was here. I note from an article in the journal entitled 'What's Happening in Education' No. 12 published in December 1977 that an adviser on women's affairs has begun work in the Department of Education. This is a highly paid job. The adviser is Sue Harlow. The article in the journal states: 
Sue Harlow, the new adviser on women's affairs, began her duties in early November. 
Sue says her initial priorities will be to establish contact with the various bodies connected with the Department. Her continuing concern will be to ensure that all management policies take women into account. 
Here is the main point. The article continues: 
She feels that more could be done to ease the problems facing women who wish to re-enter the work force. Women often have babies between the ages of 25 and 30 when many crucial opportunities for promotion are available. 
Sue suggests that society ought to move in the direction of creating more part-time and half-time jobs for women with young children to look after. 
She says the process of change should begin at school where girls could be educated to believe they were capable of pursuing a wide variety of challenging careers. 
I should have thought that the greatest problem confronting women and girls in the employment area is the fact that young girls cannot get work. It should have been her first priority to ensure that girls leaving school are able to be employed. Certainly, as she realises and as I realise, there are problems for women who have performed their family responsibilities and want to get back into the work force. Those problems need solutions. However, the vital problem is that young people cannot get work, not only in the cities but particularly in the country. The article continues: 
Sue was previously in the Community Recreation Section in the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
She has a B.Com. degree from Melbourne University and a Master's degree in Resource Administration from the University of North Carolina. 
As well, Sue says, she has 'a husband and two cats'. 
She can be contacted on 89 7 1 79. 
Before I conclude my remarks I shall refer to the matters which have been raised concerning the future of this institution. I shall deal only with the Senate. It is obvious that a parallel government operates outside the Parliament. It behoves the Government to recognise that it should support in a legislative framework and a political atmosphere those in institutions within societies who are the constitutionalists who believe in parliamentary democracy. 
It has been suggested by  Senator Rae  that the Senate committees should work more efficiently. I feel it is the senators who ought to work more efficiently. Honourable senators ought to realise that they represent the States. They should disregard the impositions of their political parties and take their own decisions in the interests of their own States as they reflect the interests of the country as a whole. I do not have to invite  Senator Wright,  but I invite  Senator Rae  and anyone on the Government side of the Senate to do that from now on. That will make this place very effective. I note that  Senator Grimes  feels that this place is only a rubber stamp. He can make it other than a rubber stamp if he chooses. He would not know this, but I recall Bert Cosgrove saying to Nick McKenna when we were discussing a matter that the equality of representation in the Senate is the guarantor that the economic lifeblood of the country will be pumped into its extremities. The fact remains that if those extremities start dying off the whole of the country will slowly die. 
I believe the Senate has the power to ensure that the States are protected. I invite  Senator Rae  and others to consider what I have said and at the appropriate times take action, not in the interests of their own political parties- I extend this invitation to  Senator Grimes  as well; if he wants to be a rubber stamp that is his business, but I believe this place should be something other than a rubber stamp- and determine the issues on the basis of their merits as they affect their States in the context of the security and development of this great nation of ours. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Education, follows the question asked by  Senator Tehan  concerning literacy. When will some action be taken to overcome this problem instead of another long-winded inquiry being held, as has been proposed? I refer to the Minister's Press statement of 16 February, in which he appeared to claim that it was inevitable that a surplus of teachers would grow. If, indeed, such a surplus does exist, will the Minister give consideration to the launching of an immediate, organised plan to utilise the services of these teachers to combat the presence of illiteracy in Australia? In connection with this problem of illiteracy, I draw his attention to an alarming claim made in the newsletter of the Council for Adult Literacy, which reached our offices today, that in Tasmania there were possibly 50,000 illiterate people. I should point out to senators from other States that similar surveys have not yet been made in their States and that the problem of illiteracy would no doubt prove to be more severe on the mainland. 

 - Mr President, this matter should be given more mature consideration by the Senate having regard to the fact that the role of the Senate and its committees was the subject of consideration by a number of honourable senators on both sides of the Chamber during the Address-in-Reply debate. I note that in each of the messages received from the House of Representatives, and I assume we are dealing first of all with Message No. 6, there is no provision for appointments to be made to the committees other than by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. That seems to me to make a mockery of what has been said by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber about the working of the committee system, the need for a joint approach on matters that come before the Senate, the need for thorough investigation of those matters, and the need for the interests of the States to be considered when matters come before the committees of the Senate. I rise to point out that there is no provision in the message before us, to which we have heard the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  move support, for independent senators or senators from parties other than the Government parties and the official Opposition party to be represented on the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
With respect,  Mr President,  I think that that comes within your scope because you are charged with the responsibility of ensuring that senators who are elected by the people of their States are given adequate participation in the business of the Parliament. Frankly, this provision gives inadequate representation in the business of the Senate to those senators elected by the States who do not happen to be members of either the Government or the Opposition parties. How often have we heard it said that this chamber ought to be a States' House? We heard  Senator Rae  say that the Senate ought to be a non-party House. I would like to see  Senator Rae  and the other honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber who are, rightly, convinced that this House should be a non-party House and that it should be a genuine House of review come into this debate and support the viewpoint which I am putting forward now. If this viewpoint were adopted it would ensure that every honourable senator, irrespective of the party to which he belonged or whether he belonged to a party, would have the untrammelled right to participate in the work of the Parliament and, in particular, in the work of Senate committees. 
I thought we were going part of the way in this regard last year or the year before when the Standing Orders were amended to ensure that there could be a nomination from an independent senator to be a member of an Estimates committee. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that 1 have not taken unfair advantage of that provision. I accepted the spirit behind the provision that independent senators would have the right to nominate to become members of Estimates committees. I have not nominated to become a member of an Estimates committee because I realise that points of view have to be expressed at meetings of Estimates committees and, more importantly, because it was provided in that amendment to the Standing Orders that honourable senators would be entitled to attend meetings of Estimates committees even though they were not members of the committees. Thus honourable senators were able to participate in the working of the Parliament. However, no such similar provision applies in the messages which are now before the Senate. I cannot see any provision in the messages whereby  Senator Haines  and I can go to a meeting of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence or the Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, express our viewpoints and participate in the working of the Parliament in respect of those committees. 
I should have thought that it would have been our right and, in fact, our duty to provide both of those committees with a viewpoint which may not necessarily be in the mainstream of the major political parties. I think that we should express our viewpoint to those committees and participate in their functions. I apologise to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  for not raising this matter before but I realised what was about to happen only a quarter of an hour ago when I read through the messages. I do not want to hold up the appointment of the committees but I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate to give consideration to this matter. In addition, if there were some arrangement whereby independent senators or honourable senators belonging to minor parties could attend meetings of such committees, we ought to consider whether the provisions of the decision of the Remuneration Tribunal are adequate in this respect. Certainly they are not adequate as far as the Estimates committees are concerned. For example, if an Estimates committee were to sit during a nonsitting week in Canberra and I had a desire to express a point of view before it, I personally would have to pick up the tab for overnight accommodation and so on. I think that honourable senators' rights should be preserved without the imposition of that sort of financial penalty. I would ask you,  Mr President,  since you are charged with the honour and duty of ensuring that the rights of individual senators are preserved, and also the Leader of the Government in the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition, to give consideration to the matters that I have raised. 
-I seek clarification of a point which has not been adverted to thus far. Under current Standing Order 64 (4), the urgency motion may not be amended. I notice that in the proposed new Standing Order 64 there is no provision that a statement of a matter of public importance cannot be amended. I wonder whether that is the intention of the Standing Orders Committee. If that is the intention, it has not been adverted to in the explanatory notes and it certainly has not been adverted to in the proposals that we are currently debating. I am flexible on that point. I would be quite happy to have deleted that part' of Standing Order 64 which states that a motion cannot be amended. However, I feel that Standing Order 64 is at present adequate for the purpose, except in relation to the title. I accept the proposal of the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers)  to change the title from a matter of urgency to a matter of public importance. I think that would be a good idea. I agree with what has been stated in proposals 1 and 2. 1 do not agree with what has been proposed in statement 3. The reason that has been given by the Minister in proposing-- 
I am referring to item 3. It states: 
When presented to the  President  the statement of the matter proposed to be discussed must be supported by the signatures of at least four senators in addition to the senator proposing the matter as indicating their approval of the discussion. 
I have two things to say about that. Firstly, I think in formulating Standing Orders it is important for the Senate to ensure that the matters which the Senate is debating or which a senator desires to have debated in this chamber is a matter of public interest. In other words, the proposal before us reeks of the need for a senator to do back-door deals in order to have a matter of public importance raised in this chamber. I do not think that it is proper to suggest in an amendment to Standing Orders that a senator has to do a back-door deal in order to raise a matter of public importance on the floor of the Senate. Let the matter be judged when it hits the floor of the Senate on whether it receives the necessary support that traditionally has been required. I recall that, acting in pursuance of Standing Order 64, 1 have raised at least two matters of urgency. One related to the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd and, from memory, the other related to the Government's industrial relations policy leading to confrontation. Fortunately, both those matters received support, but I must say that I did not canvass support to ensure that the required number of senators would support me on those occasions. For what it is worth, I believed that both of those matters were of supreme importance to my State. I felt that I had a right to raise them publicly in this chamber and to let them be considered on their merits. If honourable senators did not consider that they were matters of public importance I believed that that should be done publicly, and of course ultimately let the people judge that performance. I believed that that course was preferable to going behind doors and making the deals necessary to get signatures on the piece of paper to go before the  President. 
On the matter of urgency relating to the Government's industrial relations policy, I think that only four senators stood on that occasion. 
I assume that I did.  I  had not come down in the last shower on that matter. I had stated publicly, but not prior to presenting the matter to the  President,  and that is all important - 
No, I had not done that. As  Senator Douglas  McClelland will realise, it is difficult for an independent senator to talk to people on a Wednesday, when these matters are to be discussed. In the case of Mount Lyell, it was a Tuesday and we were coming to Canberra. The point is that certainly before the matter was discussed in this chamber I had discussed it with honourable senators but not necessarily before I exercised my right under Standing Order 64 and presented the matter to the  President  for presentation here. 
The Minister has adverted to a problem, and it is a very real one. If I came into this place tomorrow and raised a matter of public importance that the  President  thought was more important than one that the Leader of the Opposition wished to raise, if my motion did not attract support under proposed Standing Order 64(3), then under that Standing Order the motion of the Leader of the Opposition could not be considered. I concede that that is a problem, but it could be overcome by a very simple amendment. I cannot move it now, but I will foreshadow an amendment that paragraphs (3) and (4) be deleted and that in lieu thereof the following paragraph be considered: 'That in the event of a matter not receiving the support required, that is, the support of four senators rising in their places as indicating their approval thereof, such matter be not considered as a matter of public importance for the purpose of the Standing Order'. Such an amendment would mean that the matter raised by the Leader of the Opposition would come forward as the matter of public importance. I hope that due consideration will be given to that suggestion. 
I agree with what has been proposed in relation to paragraph (5). Debates on matters of public importance cannot go on ad infinitum, and people might well say that a matter has been aired sufficiently and that the Government has a responsibility to ensure that government business goes on. In those circumstances, if the Government considers it desirable, it should be enabled, with due cause, to proceed in accordance with paragraph (5). 
I raise very quickly two matters for the chamber to consider. The recommendation brought forward by Estimate Committee F, which the Standing Orders Committee considered, stated: 
. staff of the Senate Committee secretariat might be seconded temporarily to Estimates Committees to examine the extensive documentation provided by Departments, and to assist Committee members in preparation for the hearings . . . 
Under the provisions establishing Estimates committees any senator is enabled to go along to any Estimates committee meeting. It is rather restrictive for Estimates Committee F to suggest that the staff be available to assist only members of the Estimates committees. I agree with what the Standing Orders Committee said on page 12 of its report. It stated: 
The Committee agrees that, to enable Estimates committees to function most effectively, every possible assistance must be provided to honourable senators. 
I raise that point to that it can be borne in mind by the chamber. 
I draw attention to clause 8 which seeks to amend sub-section ( 1 ) of section 22 of the principal Act by inserting new paragraphs (a) and (aa). They provide that the Industries Assistance Commission in the performance of its functions should have regard to the Government's desire to: 
achieve sustained growth in the Australian economy through balanced development of Australian industries with a view to providing increased opportunities for employment and investment; (aa) improve the efficiency with which the community's productive resources are used, while ensuring that any measures to achieve changes in the structure of industry are taken only after having due regard to the capacity of the economy to sustain those changes and to absorb any members of the work force displaced by those changes; 
Those are the new guidelines that are proposed in this legislation. I would not have risen in the Committee stage had it not been for the fact that during the division on the amendment moved by the Opposition  Senator McLaren  sought to denigrate my voting with the Government on this Bill. I thought I made it perfectly clear in my speech during the second reading debate that I agreed with all parts of the Oppostion's proposition except- it was an important exceptionwhere it stated that the Senate deplored the Government threatening the basic independence of the Industries Assistance Commission by its emphasis upon narrow and variable guidelines. I cannot accept- I do not believe the trade union movement can accept- that consideration of employment problems is a variable or narrow guideline. 
I was not going to speak in the adjournment debate but  Senator Robertson's  contribution influenced me to do so. The matter which he has raised about difficulties with respect to exemption item 135 of the sales tax legislation has been a matter of concern to organisations for the handicapped for some considerable time. In late 1976 1 presented what I believed to be a well reasoned and substantial case to the then Treasurer and, indeed, to the Prime Minister  (Mr 
Malcolm Fraser). I have not received a satisfactory response to it. I refer also to the fact that I made certain suggestions to the effect that the voucher system should apply. Whilst I received some sympathy from the Treasurer on that matter, as yet I have not received a response from the Prime Minister, to whom I believe the Treasurer directed these submissions. I support what  Senator Robertson  said. I would be most interested in a response from the Treasurer. 
-I am pleased to follow the thought provoking contribution by  Senator Sim.  Tonight the Senate is considering cognately the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill 1978 and the Customs Tariff Bill 1978. The essence of the proposal in the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill is to ensure that the IAC in the performance of its functions will have regard to the Government's desire to achieve sustained growth through balanced development of industries with a view to providing increased opportunities for employment and investment. An amendment has been moved by the Opposition which states: 
. the Senate deplores the actions of the Government: 
in not having a medium or long term economic strategy, including a viable manufacturing policy upon which to base general and consistent guidelines necessary for, among other things, the proper functioning of the Industries Assistance Commission; and 
in threatening the basic independence of the Industries Assistance Commission, by its emphasis upon narrow and variable guidelines, and by its consistent failure to appreciate the advisory role intended for the Industries Assistance Commission. 
As an independent senator I have to choose between the proposition incorporated by the Government in the amending Bills and the proposition of the Opposition. To a great extent I sympathise with the Government in this respect for two reasons. One is that for many years I was Secretary of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council and a member of the Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. When reports of the Industries Assistance Commission have been made public, many times I have been concerned that they have had the result of lessening public confidence and investment confidence in the industries about which the reports are made, with disastrous effects on employment. I recognise the very worthwhile job that has been performed by the Industries Assistance Commission in attempting to analyse the problems facing industries and to advise the Government thereon. 
The reason I am sympathetic with the Government is that it is recognised that a number of groups have approached the Government and said: 'Couldn't the Industries Assistance Commission give more weight to the effect that its recommendations will have on employment in the particular industries about which references have been made?' That cry went up about a number of industries in my State of Tasmania, including the copper mining industry and the textile industry. Naturally, the people of my State, and indeed the people of other States, are very concerned about employment. I am most concerned about employment and the long term future of permanent employment in industries within Australia. That is why I say that the contributions made by  Senator Sim  and, indeed, by a number of other honourable senators in this debate were very thought provoking. I believe that Australia should have a very good look at where it is going so far as manufacturing industry is concerned. The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  stated in his second reading speech that: 
The Bill provides that the IAC, in the performance of its functions, will have regard to the Government's desire to achieve sustained growth through balanced development of industries with a view to providing increased opportunities for employment and investment. 
It was also stated in the second reading speech that: 
The Bill also expresses the Government's objective that any measures to achieve changes in the structure of industry are taken only after due regard had been given to the capacity ofthe economy to sustain those changes and to absorb members of the workforce displaced by those changes. 
That is a very worthy objective. But I submit to the Government that what the Industries Assistance Commission would require in order to perform that task would be some government policy in respect of that matter- some clear government policy as to where Australian manufacturing industry is headed. As yet we do not have that type of government policy. 
Australia is blessed with rich resources, not only the energy resources which have been described in contributions made in this debate by other honourable senators, although those resources are important, but also educational resources, technological resources and financial resources. Why, for example, do we see the decline in defence and defence related industries within Australia? I believe that that decline is a disgrace. I believe that that is an area which would sustain a good deal more employment than is able to be sustained at the present moment. Why can we not act as the resources centre for the whole of the South-East Asian area- for the Association of South East Asian countries? Why can we not act as the energy resource base, the educational resource base and the defence resource base for those countries? Surely that would overcome some of the problems of our defences. If we were to provide defence hardware for the forces of the ASEAN countries, surely those countries would not bite the hand that fed them. Indeed, that would also be the case so far as energy resources are concerned. We see that the Government suggests in the second reading speech that: 
The Bill also expresses the Government's objective that any measures to achieve changes in the structure of industry are taken only after due regard has been given to the capacity ofthe economy to sustain those changes and to absorb members ofthe workforce displaced by those changes. 
Where are those members of the work force to go to gain employment? The Government ought to place before this Parliament a White Paper on where it believes resources should be channelled so far as manufacturing industries are concerned. 
It has not told us. What I am suggesting is that the Government ought to place such a plan before this Parliament. Naturally, after a while the Industries Assistance Commission will be seeking such information from the Government if it is to carry out the directions which are contained in this Bill. 

 Senator Sim said that unemployment is an emotional issue. Obviously, when the Industries Assistance Commission presents a report on a particular industry, the recommendations of which, if accepted, would mean large scale layoffs, that certainly becomes a most emotional issue to the individual workers concerned. If one loses one's job over night things become very emotional indeed. But to overcome this problem we should not attack the independence of the Industries Assistance Commission. With all of the declarations which I have made in my trade union position on decisions of the Industries Assistance Commission, I have appreciated the very deliberate and effective economic work and research that has been carried out by the Commission. I believe that we should recognise that the Industries Assistance Commission is an advisory body and that final decisions are to be made by the Government. 
In conclusion, I come to the amendment proposed by the Opposition. I agree with part (a) of the amendment. The amendment states, in Part: 
At end of motion, add-  but the Senate deplores the actions of the Government: 
in not having a medium or long term economic strategy, including a viable manufacturing policy upon which to base general and consistent guidelines necessary for, among other things, the proper functioning of the Industries Assistance Commission . . . 
That applies to the Opposition as well. As yet I have not seen the Opposition come forward with a 'medium or long term economic strategy, including a viable manufacturing policy upon which to base general and consistent guidelines necessary for . . . the proper functioning of the Industries Assistance Commission'. It is a worthy objective, but I should like to see both the Government and the Opposition face it realistically. I believe that if we in this Parliament give leadership to the people of Australia, the interest groups, including the unions and the employers, will go along with it provided they know where we are going. We cannot know where we are going unless we receive guidelines from the Government and proposed guidelines from the alternative government. In the second part of its amendment the Opposition has moved that the Senate deplores the action of the Government:  in threatening the basic independence of the Industries Assistance Commission by its emphasis upon narrow and variable guidelines and by its consistent failure to appreciate the advisory role intended for the Industries Assistance Commission. 
I would go along with the latter part of that amendment but I cannot go along with the first part. This Bill and the Government say that the IAC should have regard to the Government's desire to achieve sustained growth through balanced development of industries with a view to providing increased opportunities for employment and investment. I do not believe that is a narrow and variable guideline. I think it is a guideline that has been desired by the work force of this country- indeed, desired by a great number of employers of this country and I believe, with respect to  Senator Walsh,  by a large number of primary producers in this countryprovided that the nation knows where it is going. 
I appeal to the Government to bring down a White Paper on the future of manufacturing industry. We could then hear what the Government has to say about how the industry should be restructured, where resources should be allocated within manufacturing industries, and which industries should have priorities and which industries should not. We could then have an intelligent debate on the whole subject not only for the benefit of the work force but also for the future security and development of this country. 
I think the Senate ought to realise what the current situation is. If the motion moved by the Leader of the Government Senate  (Senator Withers)that  the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting- is carried it will mean that this matter will be simply buried and will not be resurrected until after all the other orders of the day have been dealt with. I may be mistaken about that, but that is what I understand to be the situation. If the Senate carries this motion, this matter follows the orders of the day, of which there are 27, and becomes No. 28.I am not willing to accede to that. 
I believe that the problem of off-shore coastal surveillance that confronts this country is too grave to be allowed to continue in the current vein. Everyone, including the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  believes the surveillance to be totally inadequate. I believe, as I mentioned in supporting the proposition, that there is sufficient concern about this matter throughout Australia to warrant a full and open inquiry. I want the Senate to know what is being proposed by the Government, although I hope not acquiesced in by the Opposition. The Government is proposing that this matter should be buried and that we should continue to stumble on in the manner in which we have been. To conclude, I should like to test the situation by moving an amendment to the motion that the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting, as follows: 
At end of motion, add, 'and that it take precedence over items of General Business below Notice of Motion No. 5 on the Notice Paper'. 
I move: 
That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon- 
whether off-shore law enforcement functions are best performed by the Defence Force or some other organisation; 
whether an Australian coast guard could carry out off-shore law enforcement more efficiently than at present; 
what specific functions should be attached to an Australian coast guard; 
how such a force should be organised, equipped and financed; 
how such a force could contribute to Australia's defence as well as law enforcement; and 
how the establishment of such a force could contribute to Australian defence and defence-related industries. 
Increased public awareness of drug-running breaches, and breaches of fisheries, quarantine, immigration and other Australian laws has heightened the need for an examination of offshore law enforcement methods. There is growing community apprehension that Australia's off-shore law enforcement arrangements are cost-ineffective, politically undersirable, administratively questionable and a drain on the scarce defence resources of Australia. 
No one can be satisfied with the current situation and no one is.  I  have a fistfull of recent quotations from many people of various backgrounds in Australia to witness to that effect. For example, in an article headed, 'Quick action demand on illegal fishing' in the  Australian  of Thursday, 19 January of this year,  Mr Hodges,  the Queensland Minister for Fisheries, said he would ask the Federal Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to take strong and speedy action against the illegal fishing vessels. This was after a call for action had been made by the Fisheries Council of the Queensland Commercial Fisheries Organisation. Again, the Western Australian Maritime Services Association was quoted in an article at about the same time in the  Canberra Times  as follows: 
The views of the Western Australian Marine Services Association are worth considering. It has supported vigorously a claim by Commonwealth police that the North West coast is wide open to drug running. It has been seeking action for years. 
In a submission to the Federal Government in 1976, it stressed the need for adequate surveillance by a fleet of small craft. 
It even offered to build a prototype vessel free of charge to show the Commonwealth the right way. 
We have had no response from the Commonwealth', the association's  president, Mr Michael  Kailis said. 
We have had statements by the Northern Territory Executive, as quoted in the  Australian  of 2 February 1978, asking the Federal Government to help set up surveillance operations along the north coast. The report reads: 
The Executive has initiated moves for a joint Northern Territory-Queensland-Western Australian approach to impress on Canberra the seriousness of drug smuggling and illegal immigration in the north. 
It went on: 
The majority leader in the Executive,  Mr Everingham,  said in Darwin yesterday the director-general of the ChiefSecretary's Department,  Mr Martin  Finger, was arranging a joint delegation to the Federal Government. 
The concern is widespread. It is spread over all political parties, and in a Press statement of 28 January 1978  Mr Bill  Hayden, the Leader of the Opposition, said: 
The Government's belated proposals to combat drug running are little more than a hollow public relations exercise. They finally acknowledge a problem they were made aware of at least 18 months ago but offer little of real substance to tackle it. 
Theirs is a panic reaction to the latest in a string of embarrassments suffered in recent months due to almost nonexistent surveillance of Australia's northern coastline. 
Maritime surface and air patrol measures are grossly inadequate, as was pointed out in a Parliamentary Committee report tabled in September 1976. 
I think the reference is to the Hodges report. Indeed, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  last week, in answer to a question in the House of Representatives, expressed himself as being totally dissatisfied with the current situation. What is the current situation?  Mr President,  here I must acknowledge the assistance of a quite large number of people in putting forward this motion to the Senate and obtaining arguments in support of the need for a select committee. 
Principal amongst those who have assisted are the Parliamentary Library, the Defence, Science and Technology group and the Law and Government group, whose work on this particular matter has in my view been outstanding. Honourable senators will today or yesterday have received from the Parliamentary Library Legislative Research Service Current Issues, Brief No. 1, 1978. The current position is described in that document. It is too long to have incorporated in  Hansard,  but I would ask that, to add sense to my contribution this evening, certain parts of it be in fact incorporated. The parts I seek to have incorporated are paragraphs 2 to 8, which deal with the current situation and which cover two pages of the Legislative Research Service 's paper. I seek leave to incorporate those paragraphs in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Awareness of the problem of coastal surveillance and sovereignty enforcement appears to have been stimulated by public statements directing attention to foreign fishing vessels operating close to the Australian coastline. Amongst these were Indonesian subsistence fishermen operating off the North West Coast and Taiwanese commercial fishermen gathering clams on the Great Barrier Reef. Although few sightings appear to have been made in the early years of the decade, during 1973 285 sightings of fishing boats in Australian territorial waters were reported, and this increased to 43 1 in 1 974. Concern was expressed over the competition with local fisheries and the Cheynes Beach whaling operations; the endangering of local species such as the Trochus and the Giant Clam; and the possibility of drug smuggling. On the North West Coast the greatest worry was the introduction of exotic diseases following Indonesian landings on the coast and adajcent islands. It was estimated in 197S that an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the cattle industry of the Kimberly and Northern Australia could cost $3,500m in lost exports. 
Coastal surveillance gradually became a political issue as local citizens protested against their perceived lack of protection and absence of control of 'unfair' competition. The Premiers of Western Australia and Queensland several times criticised the Federal Government for what was claimed to be an inability to oversee and defend Australia's territorial waters. During 1974 the Federal Government considered alternative responses to the problem. An interdepartmental committee studied ways in which coastal surveillance could be improved along with the related matters of organization, equipment and costs. Following its report, a second IDC was established under the Chairmanship of the Department of Transport to report on the provisions by the Marine Operations Centre of the most effective co-ordination of coastal surveillance. In October, a special committee to examine the problem of fisheries and customs surveillance on the West Coast was established. 
One of the proposals considered at this time was the establishment of some form of Coast Guard service, possibly under the control of the Department of Customs. It was not adopted, the Government deciding to make better use of the existing personnel and equipment of the Australian Defence Forces to perform surveillance and sovereignty enforcement. The RAAF had been involved in surveillance since 1968 when the 12 nautical mile exclusive fishing zone was declared. To increase this involvement, the flying hours of the RAAF directly alloted to maritime surveillance were increased from approximately 160 hours to more than 800 hours per annum and the extent of patrol boat operations from Darwin and Cairns was increased slightly. The RAAF's surveillance missions were flown by transport aircraft as well as its specialised long-range maritime patrol (LRMP) aircraft and aircraft in transit, diverted, where practical, to perform enroute surveillance. During 1975 the Department of Defence conducted trials using light aircraft such as the RAAF's 'Winjeel' trainer and the Army's  Kiowa ' helicopter for specific coastal surveillance tasks. 
The first major exercise reflecting the increased importance of coastal surveillance and sovereignty enforcement was Operation Trochus 75. This involved 3 Grunman S2E Tracker' aircraft of the RAN operating on detachment at Broome in co-operation with the 4 patrol boats of the RAN 's Third Australian Patrol Boat Squadron in Darwin. The object of the operation was to monitor and control the activties of Indonesian fishermen off the North West Coast and restrict their activities to the waters agreed by Australian and Indonesian Authorities in November 1974. During Trochus 75 the Trackers flew 174 fisheries surveillance patrols and investigated more than 2200 contacts (although this often involved the same fishing boat). They also flew 13 search and rescue sorties. The operation was repeated again in 1976. In 1977 the aircraft were not available due to the destruction of most of them in the fire at the Naval Air Station, Nowra in December, 1976. 
In October, 1977 the Minister for Defence announced the beginning of a program of aerial surveillance of the coast between Broome and Darwin to be carried out for an initial 6 months period. This program had been initiated by request from the Inter-departmental Committee on Australian Coastal Surveillance, which is responsible to the Minister for Transport. Before this, surveillance for the RAN patrol boats at Darwin had been provided by civilian aircraft chartered  by the Department of Health. Initially, aerial surveillance was undertaken by a RAAF Dakota aircraft which has since been replaced by 3 RAN Trackers. It is these aircraft which lately have been on aerial patrol from Darwin to locate and track refugee boats approaching the coastline. 
The main equipments currently used for the coastal surveillance and sovereignty enforcement tasks are Tracker aircraft and 'Attack' class patrol boats of the RAN. They work under organizational arrangements which might be broadly described as a 'user service' to other Commonwealth and State Departments. Primarily a carrier based ASW aircraft, the Tracker has a maximum speed of about 400 km. p.h., a cruising speed of between 240 and 272 km. p.h. and a maximum range of 1,600 km., depending on payload. Endurance is up to 10 hrs. The RAN has 16 S2Gs and 3 of earlier S2E variant. The first batch of S2G Trackers to be refurbished in Australia should soon commence operational service and eventually 10 of these aircraft will be deployed, the other 6 being stored as 'attrition spares'. The RAN has 12 patrol boats, 4 of which are based at Darwin and 3 at Cairns. Displacing 149 tonnes they are 32.8 m in length and have a maximum speed of approximately 21 knots. The Government has announced plans for the replacement of these craft. Both the Trackers and patrol boats are supplemented by other forces where they are available, whilst the RAAF's LRMP aircraft regularly fly long-range surveillance missions. 
The overall organization of surveillance and sovereignty enforcement involves a number of Departments. The interdepartmental Coastal Surveillance Standing Committee, under the control of the Minister for Transport, has responsibility for the organization of non-military coastal surveillance. The Maritime Operations Centre of the Department of Transport directs all day-to-day activities concerned with shipping around the coasts of Australia, including search and rescue operations. The Fisheries Division of the Department of Primary Industry, the Department of Health, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs, the Commonwealth Police and State Government authorities are amongst those involved in the administration of regulations covering areas such as fisheries protection, quarantine, customs regulation and combating drug running. The Defence Forces operate their equipment in the surveillance and sovereignty enforcement role on behalf of these bodies and are not responsible for any legal or administrative actions which may follow their activities. 
In my remarks tonight I do not want to reflect in any way upon the work of the various departments engaged in this field, the inter-departmental committee or the Marine Operations Centre, which operates from Canberra. The duties of the Marine Operations Centre are stated in the report of the Department of Transport entitled 'Australian Transport', which is available to all honourable senators. However, one does get the very clear impression that Australia's coastal surveillance in respect of off-shore law enforcement is bogged down in a gigantic bureaucratic tangle and that something in the nature of a public inquiry, insofar as that is able to be undertaken, by a select committee of the Senate would be able to examine the current situation and propose solutions. One important matter for such a select committee to examine is the adequacy or otherwise of the existing statutory provisions relating to responsibilities which would be assumed by a coastguard authority or similar organisation, irrespective of whether it is part of the defence forces. I leave that question aside for the moment. That is a situation about which there is a difference of opinion and on which I believe the Opposition takes a stance. It is a situation that I hope to discuss later in this speech. 
At present a large number of Ministers have a finger in the pie and there is a deal of difference between what is actually set out in legislation and what happens in practice. There is room for a major overhaul and, perhaps, consolidation of the existing statutory provisions. For example, in this area we have the Navigation Act, which is administered by the Minister for Transport, and the Customs Act, which is administered by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. In fact, naval ships carry Customs officers on occasions; they act as taxis for them, as they do under the fisheries provisions. The Customs Act is also wide enough in its scope to enable naval personnel to be authorised to perform Customs functions. Another piece of legislation in the area is the Quarantine Act, which is administered by the Minister for Health. It authorises quarantine officers to exercise a wide range of powers. In practice, Customs officers are appointed as temporary quarantine officers. 
The Fisheries Act, which is administered by the Minister for Primary Industry falls within this area. Members of the defence forces are officers under the definition of 'officer' in the Fisheries Act. The Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act, which is administered by the Minister for Primary Industry, the Minister for Administrative Services, the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for the Northern Territory, is yet another piece of legislation in this area. Under that Act the officers can exercise power but in practice this is done by the Navy. Its operations are confined to foreign vessels between 3 and 12 nautical miles offshore. The Migration Act, which is administered by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, is also applicable. Insofar as off-shore law enforcement is concerned, there is again a difference between what is provided in the Act and what occurs in practice. Other Acts are also applicable. I will not go through the whole list; I will just give examples. The Pollution of the Sea by Oil Act, which is administered by the Minister for Transport and the Historic Shipwrecks Act, which is administered by the Minister for Administrative Services, are just two of the others on the list. One certainly gets the impression that there is a gigantic bureaucratic tangle which should be unravelled in a public fashion as far as possible and that this should be done without inter-departmental bickering or pressure from lobby groups within the individual departments which have the upper hand. In other words, an independent assessment of the current situation is required to isolate the problem and recommend solutions. 
There is increasing evidence of breaches of Australia's laws off-shore. Since the early 1970s questions have been asked with increasing frequency about the adequacy or otherwise of Australia's attempts to safeguard her maritime borders. This has been due to a number of factors, amongst which have been an increase in the visible external pressures, such as fishing, a sharper focusing on Australia's continental boundaries due to a change in defence concepts and the likely assumption of new responsibilities arising from changed laws governing the international usage of the oceans. I refer specifically to the EEZ- the exclusive economic zone. It is impossible to say with any finality that Australia's reaction to this new situation has been inadequate. Similarly, it is impossible to say whether known plans are sure to fail to meet the requirements for assessing Australia's sovereignty around her continental boundaries. However, there is a considerable weight of evidence indicating that the task is not being discharged adequately and that the nation is about to encounter severe difficulties in performing future tasks. 
As I have mentioned, many statements are being made by interested groups, public groups and political figures in the areas where the pressures of the new developments are most obviously being felt. Queensland, the Northern Territory and Western Australia are examples. Those statements indicate that there are very severe deficiencies indeed. This problem is not isolated to Queensland, Western Australia or the Northern Territory. The incident of the drug haul off Jervis Bay involving rafts with radio beacons is sufficient to show that crimes of this nature are being committed right throughout Australia. It will be interesting to see the report of the Royal Commission into Drugs on this aspect. Conversely, there are official statements which indicate that the criteria for assessing success must be placed in the correct perspective and that in this light the existing coastal surveillance measures are adequate. The significant exception is seen in the attitude adopted by the Minister for Defence,  Mr Killen. 
The problem of adjudicating upon those conflicting views, that is, on the one hand that there are severe deficiencies and on the other hand that surveillance is adequate given certain criteria, lies in the basis upon which the judgments are made. Answers to parliamentary questions indicate that few foreign fishermen have made unauthorised landings in Australia and that a small proportion of the foreign fishing vessels working the Australian coast are doing so illegally. I have noted answers which have been given in this and the other chamber relating to those aspects. However, such statistics are valid only if the sample of cases they represent is sufficiently large to accurately indicate what is occurring. 
It would appear from the weight of available evidence that the collection of data concerned with coastal surveillance around Australia is not adequate to allow the formation of an accurate picture of the activities along Australia's coastline and the waters adjacent to it. For instance, the surveillance flight by a Royal Australian Air Force P3C Orion takes four days to complete and it is not conducted continuously. On  Four Corners  on 18 February 1978 it was estimated that this left smugglers with an 80 per cent probability of success. In the absence of adequate data this statement should be treated with scepticism but it cannot be gainsaid. Other surveillance activities off the Australian coast include the work of three S2 Tracker aircraft operating from Darwin and the use of other RAAF aircraft in transit, amounting to 2,700 aircraft flying hours during 1976-77. To place this figure in an admittedly crude perspective, this can be calculated to equal one aircraft in the air for one-third of the year at one spot along Australia's 19,000 kilometre coastline. Similarly, although an Orion can cover some 1 1.8 per cent of the 200 nautical mile Australian EEZ in a single sortie, this can be done only at high altitude. Whilst this is sufficient to detect targets of defence interests, that is, strategic surveillance, such as destroyers, such a mission would not locate targets of interest to civil law enforcement agencies, such as trawlers, as the aircraft's radar would be unable to detect vessels displacing less than 2,000 tonnes. This type of operation must be performed at a low level, typically 600 metres. In contrast to the P3C 's ability to sweep 770,000 square kilometres in a single sortie in strategic surveillance, the S2 Tracker aircraft flying civilian surveillance at 600 metres altitude will cover 62,000 square kilometres in its typical 6-hour sortie. That represents 0.95 per cent of the Australian EEZ. 
I have raised in the questions to be considered by the proposed select committee the cost effectiveness of the current situation. Having established that the data on which to base a judgment of the success or otherwise of Australia 's coastal surveillance is lacking, it nonetheless remains to the critic to establish criteria for determining its success. This is most easily done if coastal surveillance is seen as a civil task performed to civil peacetime criteria. It is only in this framework that criteria of cost effectiveness can be used as a non-subjective tool for evaluating an appropriate government policy. Basically this approach allows for the value of the resources being protected to be weighed against the cost of providing such protection. Thus, an increase in surveillance effort can be justified if its cost, even though large, is a small proportion of the value of the resources being safeguarded. Alternatively, the effort may be decreased in areas where the cost is disproportionately larger than the benefits accruing. This method is not without its shortcomings but it does at least provide a basis for evaluation which is not applicable if coastal surveillance remains a military task. 
In these circumstances adequacy of response to the apparent task is the only available criteria. When that task is inadequately defined, a high probability of preventing a failure in the given operational environment is the only basis of analysis. When the environment is such as to make this proposition absurd the problem can be written off as being too difficult. That is why we hear defence spokesmen seriously cite the need to operate an obviously ridiculous number of aircraft as a justification for not performing what is seen as an undefined task. If the task is seen in civil cost effectiveness terms the answer is usually different and quite often plausible. 
Two Australian companies have based their approach to the coastal surveillance problem on the cost effectiveness concept. Studies by Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd of the systems approach to coastal surveillance used the analogy of insurance. The company claims that an annual expenditure of between $30m and $50m is justified to protect an agricultural and off-shore industry which it assesses as having an annual output of between $30 billion and $50 billion. I refer to what was stated in the paper prepared by Derek Woolner, a legislative research specialist of the Defence Science and Technology Group of the Parliamentary Library. This is the paper which I earlier incorporated in  Hansard.  It states: 
On the North West Coast the greatest worry was the introduction of exotic diseases following Indonesian landings on the coast and adjacent islands. It was estimated in 1975 that an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the cattle industry of the Kimberley and Northern Australia could cost $3, 500m in lost exports. 
Another Australian company, the Government Aircraft Factories, in its studies of the requirements for aerial observation of the EEZ, concluded that in most countries adequate surveillance would be achieved by a daily coverage of each zone of the EEZ. The object is not to achieve 100 per cent detection of all possible targets but to detect and apprehend enough violators to deter a large proportion of such activities. Thus, as with the prevention of violence at all levels- from international conduct to the maintenance of law and order- the problem becomes one of developing an organisation efficient enough to deter would-be violators. 
In passing, it should be said that the costeffectiveness approach in the Australian situation has its shortcomings. This is basically because there is no accurate data to indicate the value of Australia's resources in several important areas. So far as fishing is concerned,  Dr K.  Radway Allen, the former chief of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's Division of Fisheries and Oceanography, said: 
It is inescapable that to obtain the knowledge needed for the sound management of an extended fishing zone will require a substantial commitment of people, ships, time and money. . . . It is evident that the numbers of fisheries scientists in Australia at present available to work in offshore fisheries is entirely inadequate to undertake the studies which will be required for effective management of an extended fisheries zone. 
If deterrence of potential violators is one of the objectives of coastal surveillance, the current system can be said to have shortcomings in that it has enabled a public impression of incompetence to arise. Statements of individuals with a wide background of positions and interests indicate the extent of that criticism. Because this criticism appears to be widespread it creates an impression which encourages would-be violators to expect success. This can be the case even though reports may not be necessarily representative. 
One person who should be in a position to know is Inspector Mike Gilroy of the Northern Territory Police. He should be able to give an accurate assessment of the success of coastal surveillance operations. He was reported in the  Canberra Times  of 22 January 1978 as stating that large quantities of marihuana were brought into Groote Eylandt by prawning boats. He was reported as saying: 
We laid traps for them but it needed a big operation to clean them up. We were hampered by lack of men and equipment. The boats would come in at all hours of the night and anchor off-shore . . . there were a lot of boats around . . . we couldn't search all of them. We knew though that the prawners were notorious for bringing the stuff in. 
In the last five years only one boat has been detected bringing marihuana into Darwin. 
I refer also to the proceedings of the Federal Royal Commission Into Drugs which commenced its hearings in Darwin, One may not necssarily accept what Inspector Gilroy had to say, but submissions have been made to this inquiry which support the viewpoint that regular drug running is rampant in the north. The hearings were reported on the radio program  P.M.  One witness was reported as saying that radar in Darwin, which covers about 150 miles in all directions, did not work after 8 o'clock at night. The witness said that although the equipment kept operating no one was there to watch it unless it was known specifically that a plane was coming in. That is just one illustration of the absurd manner in which surveillance is carried out, or to be more precise, not carried out in our northern regions. It is almost as if we were to put up a sign saying 'Drug trafficking planes will be apprehended if they arrive in office hours but are free to enter Australia illegally and will not be apprehended after office hours, at long weekends or on public holidays'. The same program on  P.M.  reported that 'Planes are coming in just about every day'. We already have the recent example of the drug-carrying plane that was apprehended almost by accident. That incident was followed later by another incident in which the plane was not caught. As I recall it- I may be wrong- it was alleged that the plane had aboard drugs worth $2m. 
Did we? Then there was the incident concerning a boat load of refugees that entered Darwin last year. The first anyone knew about them was when they entered the harbour and made inquiries of the local inhabitants. Apparently they had been undetected in their long journey to Australia. 
State of Tasmania. As I mentioned before, the incident at Jervis Bay indicates that there are problems right around Australia. 
Similar evidence of shortcomings in Australia's coastal surveillance capacity has come with the influx of refugee boats to the north-west coast of Australia in recent months. I do not for a moment criticise the refugees. I believe we should adopt a humane attitude to them. The fact that refugees can come in undetected shows up the problems of surveillance of Australia 's coast. An article in the  A Australian  of 7 January 1978 stated that at least 20 of the 29 refugee boats which had landed to that time were sighted when within only 20 kilometres of the Australian coast. At least three boats arrived without being detected at all. One of these boats, the  Thanh Hai  put ashore on Grose Island only 50 kilometres south-west of Darwin before it was detected by one individual on shore. Here is the rub. Another boat was known to be in the area and was the subject of a three-day search by Tracker aircraft and the Royal Australian Navy patrol boat  A ware.  However, this boat was located and brought to Darwin after a two-day tow by a local fishing vessel without the Navy being able to locate it. It may be unfair to cite specific instances such as these out of context. However, such occurrences are the subject of media reports and as such contribute heavily towards the impressions which are created about the effectiveness of Australia's coastal surveillance. As such, they are the source of major deficiencies in the performance of coastal surveillance simply because they detract from any deterrent value that might otherwise be created. It may have been only the reaction to media coverage which prompted Defence Minister Killen to reply, in answer to a question about whether he considered 15 patrol boats enough for present purposes, in the following terms: 
I find it massively tempting, with respect to the last part of the honourable gentleman's question, to say emphatically,  No, I am not satisfied '. 
However, his statements of late may be interpreted as themselves giving further emphasis to the appearance of deficiencies. In a  Four Corners  program of 1 8 February 1 978 he said: 
Now I can give an assurance that in terms of clear defence surveillance that the country is being adequately looked after but in terms of civil surveillance well you are looking at an entirely different problem. 
If this statement implies a priority to be given to military surveillance even when it is apparent that civil surveillance is inadequate, this can only detract further from the deterrent effect of such civil surveillance. Further, if it implies that civil surveillance is not the responsibility of the Australian defence forces this represents a new de facto policy position of the Government which must further detract from the effectiveness of deterrents since it leaves no prime agency with the responsibility for performing civil surveillance tasks. I think it is necessary to elaborate on what  Mr Killen  had to say. An article by Peter Costigan in the Melbourne  Herald  on 28 February stated: 
But Denis James Killen is also the Minister for Defence and it is defence personnel and equipment that have been involved so far in the surveillance of the existing 12-mile zone and our vast shoreline. 
And, although he does not want to pre-empt the Government's decision, he is not happy at the idea of military forces searching for illegal refugees, pirate fishermen, drug runners and animal smugglers. 
I take the view that this is not a defence responsibility', he says. 'I am not seeking to abdicate the responsibility but the approach to the problem has got to be an informed one. 
The general surveillance problem seems to me to be hopelessly confused. 
People regard fishing, illegal immigration, drug running and introduction of unwanted disease as representing a defence function. 
That is not a defence function, it is a police function '. 

 Mr Killen edges towards favouring a civilian coastguard service to monitor the 200-mile economic zone, but he has not made up his mind on whether such a coastguard should ultimately be under the aegis- in an emergency- of the nation's defence command. 
That is a worthwhile article to look at. I am not pre-empting any decision that the Senate committee may come down with as to whether the organisation should be under the aegis of the defence forces. But to those who suggest that it should be under the aegis of the defence forces I put two propositions. Firstly, as I said in my opening remarks, I believe that would be politically undesirable. Secondly, it would be a drain on the resources of the defence forces of this country. Is it any wonder that the Minister for Defence wants to get shot of the essentially civilian role of off-shore law enforcement and have it taken out of his budget? Already in the United Kingdom, although the coastal surveillance is operated by the Navy it is operated on a user-pay basis. That does not occur in this country. 
Part of the proposition put forward in my notice of motion relates to the funding of such an organisation. I also believe in the user-pay principle in coastal surveillance. If we are to have a coastal surveillance organisation similar to the United States Coastguard, whether or not it is under the aegis of the armed forces, its funding should come from sources other than the defence appropriation. For example, the Australian Government could set licence fees for fisheries within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone which, together with fees paid by off-shore drillers and the like, would pay handsomely for the annual cost of the coastguard. Frank Cranston of the  Canberra Times  quoted an expert as suggesting that the potential of fisheries in the EEZ is approximately $5,000m per annum. One per cent or 2 per cent of that amount would go a long way towards meeting the cost of a coastguard. Suppose we established certain licence fees which would cover the cost of operations. Not only would they cover the cost of operations and thus avoid a drain on the Defence budget but also those vesels which are licensed to enter the EEZ themselves would have a vested interest in detecting illegal fishing in the EEZ. 
The second reason I put to those who believe that coastal surveillance ought to be under the aegis of the defence forces is this: My attitude- I am sure that the bulk of Australians who are interested in civil liberties and other important aspects would have the same attitude- is that the defence forces should not go to the aid of the civil power except in absolute emergencies. They should not do so as a matter of course. In Australia the defence forces go to the aid of the civil power. 
That is a question of whether the administrative procedures were properly carried out. But certainly the defence forces should not go to the aid of the civil power as a matter of course. There are valid reasons for this. We do not want to be a military state. A number of breaches of laws off-shore are perpetuated by Australian citizens. Others are perpetuated by nationals of other countries. We saw what happened in the cod war. A grave diplomatic problem arose because of the involvement of the defence forces in that situation. 
I refer the honourable senator to an article in  Russi  of June 1977 which stated that the involvement of the defence forces created problems. The article entitled Policing Offshore: Civil Power or Armed Forces' by Elizabeth Young goes into the political and diplomatic problems associated with using armed forces as a matter of course to go to the aid of the civil power or to perform what are essentially civilian tasks of a constabulary nature. I shall quote one brief statement. It reads: 
On land, we cannot imagine the armed forces habitually providing the police- the civil power- with the bulk of their  personnel, facilities and hardware. For the time being, this is what we are doing at sea. Yet there are, in the first place, strong constitutional objections: military government of any kind is anathema to us, and we are all deeply aware of the tragic failure that the use of the Army in the policing role in Northern Ireland represents. 
Let us consider the possible situation with cooperation between nations. If our off-shore law enforcement function were performed by a civil organisation that organisation would be more likely to gain co-operation from similar organisations in neighbouring countries than would our armed forces if they were involved. But I come back to the essential principle which ought to be given consideration by Opposition senators, namely, that as a general principle the armed forces should not go to the aid of the civil power other than in specified urgent circumstances. 
My proposition seeks also to establish a committee to inquire into and report on how such a force could contribute to Australia's defence and defence related industries. I have a great deal of material to show that the hardware required by such a coastguard could be obtained within Australia and could be of inestimable value to Australian defence and defence related industries. I shall not go into this subject tonight; I hope that sufficient has been said to influence honourable senators and the Government to believe that there is a need for an inquiry of the type I have mentioned. I have also pointed out that such an inquiry should examine how such a force should be organised, equipped and financed. This involves a number of questions. Who is to train the personnel in the civil organisation? I believe that the Australian Maritime College which has been established in Launceston would surely be the place which in the future would be most appropriate to train the personnel for such a coastguard. 
A number of questions are involved- too many to detail to the Parliament at this time. But I shall ask a couple of them. An Australian coastguard should be set up now, equipped with Australianmade patrol boats and medium range aircraft to perform the essential civil task of protecting Australian fishing and marine mineral resources and enforcing Australian customs, immigration, transport and health laws in Territorial waters and within the proposed extended economic zone? Could that Australian coastguard be modelled on the highly efficient and professional United States coastguard? Without delaying the Senate, I should like to have incorporated in  Hansard  two short pages comprising an extract from a United States Senate committee hearing of 1977, which details the functions of the United States coastguard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

FUNCTIONS OF UNITED STATES COASTGUARD 
(Extract from Senate Committee Hearings 1977) 
The Coast Guard employs multipurpose vessels, aircraft, and shore units, strategically located along the coasts and inland waterways of the United States and in selected areas overseas to carry out its duties. Operating expenses funds are used to defray the expense of rebuilding through the use of replacements, alterations, and restorations when they involve less than 75 per cent of the original facility. They are also used to defray expenses of improvements through modification, addition, or expansion where the estimated cost of a project is $75 thousand or less. 
. Search and rescue. Most Coast Guard operating facilities have the capacity for promoting safety on or over the high seas and on waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. The Coast Guard performs acts necessary to rescue and aid persons and save property placed in jeopardy due to marine and aircraft accidents, floods, and ice conditions. 
Aids to navigation. A network of manned and unmanned aids to navigation is maintained along our coasts and on our inland waterways to insure the safe passage of the mariner. Loran stations are operated in the United States and abroad to serve the needs of the armed services and marine and air commerce. Administrative control is exercised over the construction, maintenance, and operation of bridges across the navigable waters of the United States to insure that the safe passage of navigation is not unreasonably interfered with. 
Marine safety. The Coast Guard insures compliance with Federal statutes and regulations pertaining to the merchant marine industry by reviewing plans and specifications for the construction or alteration of merchant vessels; by periodic inspections; by licensing; and by setting standards, procedures, and practices under which merchant marine personnel are licensed and regulated. The Coast Guard minimises the risk of fatalities, injuries, and property damage associated with the operation of recreational boats through a boat safety standards program, boater information, education and compliance programs, support of the Coast Guard Auxiliary, and increasing financial and technical support of the individual state boating safety programs. 
Marine environmental protection. Under various laws, international agreements, and conventions, the Coast Guard is charged with the prevention of damage to the marine environment and the enhancement of environmental quality. Also, under statutory requirements the Coast Guard must safeguard and secure US ports and waterways against harm, and thereby improve their economic utilisation and assure their availability in time of national emergency. 
Ocean operations. Maritime law enforcement is accomplished by cutters and aircraft conducting patrols to enforce international agreements and Federal laws on the high seas and waters over which the US exercises jurisdiction. Ice operations (polar and domestic) are performed by specially constructed icebreakers or ice/strengthened cutters which operate in support of Coast Guard programs, the requirements of other agencies, and in the facilitation of commerce. Marine science activities, which include the International Ice Patrol, are carried out on a co-operative basis with other Government agencies. 
Military readiness. The Coast Guard operates as a service in the Navy in time of war or national emergency at the direction of the  President.  During peacetime, an effective state of military preparedness is maintained through  individual and unit training, by joint naval training exercises, or by Coast Guard single and multi-ship operations. 
We have to ask ourselves: Is the current method of maritime sovereignty enforcement inefficient, wasteful and a drain on Australia's defence capability? Are the Navy patrols and aerial surveillance equipment, with specialised defence sophistication, being wastefully under-utilised in the essential civil task involved in the fisheries patrols in Australian law enforcement off-shore? Are the Orion aircraft far too sophisticated for the search patterns and small surface detection involved? Also, are the Navy patrol craft wastefully operated by crews expensively trained for modern warships? These are the sorts of questions involved. Those of us from Tasmania will remember, as proof of what I said previously about the inability or the inappropriateness of the Orions for this task, what happened when the  Blythe Star  sank. The Orions were sent there to look for survivors and they could not find them. They ended up on the east coast of Tasmania. 
A large number of other questions could be posed and, indeed, must be posed to such an inquiry. These questions need urgent answers. What is the existing form of surveillance of our coastal area and who undertakes it? Should a separate coastguard service be established? Would a coastguard be part of the defence forces or would it be separate? What functions would be covered by a coastguard? If aircraft are to play a relevant role, what types of aircraft would be suitable? Is there a possibility of offsetting the cost of a coastguard against licence fees paid by those people who exploit our marine resources? 
If Australia does declare a 200-mile exclusive economic zone- we have heard that the Australian Government intends to declare such a zone, although according to the  Canberra Times  this morning the declaration has just been deferred- what arrangements will be necessary to cover the Torres Strait area where our zones might overlap with the zones of Papua New Guinea? Because of the increasing importance of the Antarctic area, what immediate and potential role would a coastguard play in protecting our claims in that area? What type of marine vessels would be appropriate? Because of the diversity of the functions which might be brought under the responsibility of a coastguard, what form of training would be required for its employees? I believe that the Australian Maritime College would be the appropriate place for that training to take place. 
What is the capacity of Australian industry to produce all or most of whatever resources might be required by an Australian coastguard; for example, vessels, radar, electronics and the like? Why is it that the United States and Canadian coastguards have assumed a particular organisational role? Is this because of particular historical local factors, or is their experiment relevant to Australia? What plans are being discussed for the proposed Norwegian coastguard? Is there a possibility of linking in a coastguard system with information being conveyed from orbiting satellites; for example, for use in the detection of oil spillage? Where should coastguard resources be concentrated? Which parts of the coastline require more intensive surveillance than others? These are the sorts of questions which remain unanswered today. 
I believe that it would be a disgrace if the Government were to allow the continued existence of a vacuum in policy in this area. As I indicated before, I understand the problem. It is bogged down in a gigantic bureaucratic tangle. The way to untangle the problem is to have an independent inquiry, which this Senate is well able to set up. How often have honourable senators gone into an inquiry and had a fixed idea about the facts and the solutions but have come out with different ideas altogether? Certainly, with one inquiry undertaken by a committee on which I served I came out with somewhat different ideas from the ones with which I went in. I believe that it would be wholly inappropriate if the Government were to gag this debate and it would ensure a continuance of the confusion which exists at present. I commend the proposition that the Senate establish a select committee to inquire into and report on the matters relating to off-shore law enforcement that are contained in my motion. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to his speech in the Senate last week on the Industries Assistance Commission Amendment Bill in which he expressed the Government's objective as follows:   . . that any measures to achieve changes in the structure of industry are taken only after having due regard to the capacity of the economy to sustain those changes and to absorb any members of the work force displaced by those changes. 
Specifically, my question relates to the impending retrenchment of 300 or more workers as a result of the decision by Dunlop Australia Ltd to restructure its Universal Textiles operation in Tasmania. Is the Minister aware that the level of unemployment in the Hobart employment district exceeds 7 per cent and that capacity to absorb those workers does not exist? In view of this, will the Minister take steps to influence the Dunlop company to observe the Government's policy expressed by him in the Senate on Wednesday last and demand that with its wealth and diverse productive capacity Dunlop establish alternative commodity production in its Derwent Park factory to absorb the 300 or more workers who will be displaced if the company proceeds with its misguided intention of cutting the major part of its Universal Textiles operation in Tasmania? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs. To help her understand my question I remind her of the parable by Sara Dowse which I had incorporated in  Hansard last  Thursday week for the elucidation of honourable senators and which is entitled 'The Witch that Came in from the Cold'. I refer to the statement made by the Minister for Home Affairs,  Mr Ellicott,  on the occasion of International Women's Day on 8 March 1 978, in which he said: 
The Working Women's Centre in Melbourne ... is the only organisation within the union movement providing support for women. 
Is that not a calculated affront to all those registered industrial organisations, including my own, which have women members and which in fact have supported programs for their women members over many years? Will the Minister for Home Affairs retract his statement, which is an affront to the trade unions concerned? Is this yet another example of the handmaidens who now have been banished to an outer chamber barking up the wrong tree, whether it be magic or otherwise, while pulling the wool over the Minister's eyes? 
We are dealing with that part of the report of the Standing Orders Committee which relates to the recommendation of Estimates Committee F. I point out to the Committee of the Whole that while that Estimates committees, as I understand the position, obtained their authority from resolutions passed from time to time by the Senate which read something like this: 'That the Particulars of Proposed Expenditure for the year ending', for example, '30 June 1978, and the Particulars of Proposed Provision for Additional Expenditure in respect of the year ending 30 June 1978 be referred herewith to the Estimates committees for examination and report'. Under normal circumstances that resolution, which is the normal resolution, refers to two documents known as Document A and Document B. The way in which the titles of those documents are identified indicates that it is the documents that are submitted to the committees for examination. Those documents contain details of proposed expenditure for the relevant financial year and the expenditure for the previous financial year. 
The Estimates committees have, and should have, the right to examine past and proposed expenditure, even if as happened with one item, there is only past expenditure and not proposed expenditure. Questions asked on past expenditure could very well affect the attitude of an Estimates committee towards proposed expenditure, not simply on that item but for a department as a whole. I bring to the attention of this Committee that on one occasion when I sought to ask a question on past expenditure on an item for which there was no proposed expenditure, the  chairman  of the committee suggested that I was not in order in so doing. I believed, of course, that it was my right, and indeed my duty, to ask the question on past expenditure because I believed it was relevant to the proposed expenditure for the department as a whole. 
I come now to the matter that is before the Committee, namely the suggestion that staff of the Senate committee secretariat might be seconded temporarily to Estimates committees to examine the extensive documentation provided by departments. What happens in a similar case to the one I just mentioned? Suppose we get the staff. Under whose direction are they to work? Presumably they will work under the direction of the  chairman  of the Estimates committee. He will be a government appointee. That is where we can get into an area of possible bureaucracy. 
As an independent senator I have the right under Standing Order  36AB  (10), although I am not a member of an Estimates committee, to attend and participate in its deliberations and question witnesses unless the Committee orders otherwise. However, I do not have the right to vote. Am I entitled to the assistance of the staff who it is suggested should be seconded? If not, under whose direction are the staff to work? Is it to be under the direction of the  chairman  of the committee who will be a government appointee, or is it to be under the direction of the whole committee which will be, of course, made up of a majority of government members? I remind honourable senators that the Estimates committees are charged with the responsibilities that they have so as to ensure proper accountability for the expenditure of public funds. Surely any honourable senator has the right to assistance to achieve that objective. I would like answered the specific question as to the rights honourable senators may exercise under Standing Order 36AB ( 10). If that is answered to my satisfaction, I know where I stand in respect of this matter. 
-I feel drawn back into the discussion by reason of the matters that have been mentioned by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  and Senators Sim and Rae in response to the points that I made. I do recall that senators were requested to give advance notice of the matters and items on which they wished to ask questions. 
The honourable senator is right. I religiously observed that practice on each occasion on which I went to Senate Estimates committees. I might say that I received a great deal of courtesy from the Senate staff and the committees in advising me when the items concerned were about to come up for consideration and for that I am most appreciative. I believe that  Senator Withers'  suggestion is a very good one. Forewarned is forearmed, and at least the advisers in the departments can have their files with them and be prepared for questions. I think that should continue. 
I refer also to  Senator Sim's  remarks. I do not know whether he heard all that I said in my earlier remarks, but I made no implication that just because the Government had a majority on an Estimates committee the Government's view would prevail on all matters. In my previous contribution I instanced a specific circumstance, where I had attempted to ask a Minister about an item on which there had been expenditure in the preceding financial year and for which there was no estimate for the current financial year. I did that in the belief that in order to question the proposed expenditure of the department as a whole it was necessary to ask questions about the previous expenditure. The Minister was not prepared to answer the questions. I did not receive support from the Government senators on that occasion. They were prepared to let the Minister get away with it. 

 - Senator Sim raises a very interesting point. Perhaps  Senator Withers  should also bear that in mind. I was very pleased to hear the  President  of the Senate respond to the debate, and I trust that he and the  chairman  of the various committees will have regard to what I have said. 
I think it was totally unfair of  Senator Rae  to suggest that I thought independents and minority groups should be in a position to hold Estimates committees to ransom. I made no such suggestion. I did not mention the word 'independent' or the word 'minority'. We have been elected to this place by the people of our various States, and the minute we start taking away the rights of individual senators this institution will start to disintegrate. The point that I was trying to make - 
I would be interested in  Senator Rae  's comments on the proposal that I am putting, namely, that the previous expenditure and how well that money has been expended is a relevant matter to put to a Minister when the estimates of a department are being considered as a whole. I would be very interested to hear  Senator Rae's  views on that matter. I think it is totally unfair to suggest that Estimates committees will be held to ransom by minority groups or independents. That is totally irrelevant. The fact is that I would not have needed to enter this debate had it not been for the wording of the report of Estimates Committee F which was presented to the Senate on 13 October 1977. The report, inter alia, on page 12- this is the recommendation- states:   . . that staff of the Senate Committee secretariat might be seconded temporarily to Estimates Committees to examine the extensive documentation provided by the Departments, and to assist Committee members in preparation for the hearings . . . 
As I have already pointed out, under Standing Order 36AB (10), individual senators who are not members of an Estimates committee have the right to participate in its public sessions and to question witnesses, unless the Committee orders otherwise; but they cannot vote. 
If Estimates Committee F had been a little more circumspect in its choice of specific words I would not have risen. But as I understand the situation now, individual senators who have an interest in a range of matters which the various Estimates committees cover can participate in the research facilities provided by the back up staff not only in the initial meetings of the Estimates committee concerned but also, presumably, as the Estimates committee proceeds with its work. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, relates to a report which appeared in this morning's  Australian  newspaper and which was written by Norman Kirkham, the  London Daily Telegraph's  Luanda correspondent. I ask whether the Minister has seen the report which states: 
The Soviet Union has . . . set up a secret training camp in Angola for 25,000 African guerillas who will form armies to attack Zimbabwe (Rhodesia), Zaire and Namibia. 
Is the Minister aware that the report states that the camp is for members of  Mr Joshua  Nkomo 's faction of the Zimbabwe African Peoples Union and the South- West African Peoples Organisation? Is he aware that the report states that teams of Soviet and Cuban advisers have moved into south-eastern Angola to instruct those guerrillas in the use of field guns, surface-to-air missiles, rocket launchers and other heavy equipment? Has the Minister anything to add to what is stated in that report? If not, will he undertake to ascertain information about this situation and present it to the Senate. 

 - Mr President, I regret having to speak on the adjournment but I must do so in view of an answer that was given to a question by me on 16 March concerning the Working Women 's Centre in Melbourne. The question was directed to the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Guilfoyle,  in her capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs,  Mr Ellicott.  My question on the Working Women's Centre was asked more out of sorrow than out of anger, even though I did confuse some of the metaphors at the time. But the nature of the response, both as to tone and to content was unwarranted. 
I must speak on the adjournment debate tonight to point out why I feel this to be the case. I did in fact look at  Hansard  the next day and wondered why the Minister answered in the way in which she did. I saw that the previous question contained some rockets about the Aurukun situation. One would have to have a hean of either stone or wood not to respond at some later date. 
Before attempting to explain why  Mr Ellicott  's fulsome praise of the Working Women 's Centre, which prompted my question to  Senator Guilfoyle,  was thoroughly inappropriate, there is one matter which I should make clear at the outset. I want to make it clear to the Senate that I believe  Senator Guilfoyle  to be a very hardworking Minister. I understand her situation and the situation of other Ministers who represent Ministers in another place. But I do ask that she and other Ministers be very careful about automatically presuming that they will receive the full story from their advisers. That is precisely why I incorporated in  Hansard  the parable written by Sara Dowse, the former adviser on women's affairs to this Government. When I referred to this parable during my question on 16 March, in reply,  Senator Guilfoyle  commented: 
The parables are a little obscure to me. 
The Sara Dowse parable is not obscure to me nor should it be obscure to anyone who knows anything about politics. Quite simply, the Sara Dowse parable indicates that while she was working as an adviser to this Government her first loyalty was always to a non-Public Service organisation, the Women 's Electoral Lobby, and that she saw the Women's Electoral Lobby and its attitudes as providing an integrated backdrop for the Women's Affairs Branch of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
It would be a mistake for this Government to believe that the Women's Electoral Lobby expresses the wishes and aspirations of a majority of Australian women. It does not. It may be very vocal but increasingly other women's groups are coming to the fore to oppose the extreme viewpoints put forward by the Women's Electoral Lobby, Women's Liberation and the radical feminists. I think that these other organisations which believe that mothers should be able to exercise a free and realistic choice as to whether they enter the work force or remain at home to raise children are more representative. 
The Minister for Home Affairs,  Mr Ellicott,  has stated- and  Senator Guilfoyle  has given qualified endorsement to his remarks- that the Working Women's Centre in Melbourne is 'the only organisation within the union movement providing support for women'. The facts are otherwise. The Working Women's Centre in Melbourne is unrepresentative. It involves itself in matters not directly relevant to women workers, is hostile to the official trade union movement and is a politically motivated organisation favouring the extreme Left and radical feminists. It is significant that neither the Australian Council of Trade Unions nor the Victorian Trades Hall Council have endorsed the centre. It is simply untrue to state, as  Mr Ellicott  has done, that it 'is the only organisation within the union movement providing support for women'. 
Not only is that totally untrue so far as the whole of Australia is concerned- and I am very familiar with the situation in my State- but it is also totally untrue so far as Victoria is concerned. The Victorian office of my union, that is, the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association, which has a substantial female membership component, has a special women's unit employing five women. That makes it larger than  Mr Ellicott  's Working Women's Centre. Furthermore, the Victoria SDAE unit has been established without any call to the Federal Government for financial assistance. 
I stated that the Working Women's Centre was not endorsed by the Australian Council of Trades Union, and that is true. Indeed, the last ACTU Congress, in session on 13 September 1977, defeated an attempt to obtain ACTU endorsement of the Centre and the request for continued Federal Government funding of the Centre. As I say, this attempt was defeated. I might add that I noticed that Ted Bull from the Waterside Workers Federation was associated with this move to obtain ACTU recognition and to request continued Federal Government funding of the Centre. He in fact seconded the proposition. Perhaps that partly explains why the move was unsuccessful. I am sure that the delegates at the ACTU Congress were far more familiar with the trade union movement and real politics than the members of the Government. I am sure that even those delegates at the Congress who knew only the basic details of Australian politics would have thought twice about a resolution enthusiastically promoted by the vicepresident of the Communist Party of Australia (Marxist-Leninist). They would also say to themselves it was strange that the proposition was being seconded by Ted Bull in his other capacity as secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation. I do not know how many women members are in the Waterside Workers Federation. 
I stated that the Working Women's Centre was not endorsed by the Victorian Trades Hall Council. This point is significant because the Victorian Trades Hall Council is the Victorian Branch of the ACTU. It is the official union centre of the trade union movement in Victoria. I understand that the Trades Hall Council on several occasions has refused to have anything to do with that centre despite strong attempts by John Halfpenny's Amalgamated Metal Workers Union on the Centre's behalf. For the benefit of those Government members who do not follow the trade union movement, let me say that John Halfpenny is the vice-president of the Communist Party of Australia. No doubt the Trades Hall Council is thoroughly aware of the activities of the Centre. I have been told by a union official in Melbourne that a possible reason for the official trade union hostility is that on several occasions women associated with the centre have attempted to by-pass the elected officials of unions and enter factories and work places in order to spread their propaganda. They have not even had the courtesy to advise the union officials whose members work in those factories of what they were attempting to do. 
I have stated that the Centre is not representative. If it were representative it would not be constantly approaching the Federal Government for financial assistance. Only a handful of unions have provided finance to it.  Senator Guilfoyle  said in the Senate that she thought that this was surprising but I trust that by the end of my speech the reasons will become clearer to her. After two years of operations the Centre, in a news sheet dated 1 1 October 1976, admitted that only two unions had approached it in order to obtain research and advocacy assistance for claims. One of the unions which continued to support it was the Food Preservers Union. The person who approached the organisation, being that union's women's organiser, was Gail Cotton. A number of honourable senators may some day give information about Gail Cotton and her work with Bill Hartley in support of the Palestine Liberation Organisation and its terrorist activities. I recall that it was this Government which refused an entrance visa to Australia for her Palestinian fiance- or so he was claimed to be at the time. I have stated that the Centre involves itself in matters not directly relevant to working women. 
I will come to that. This can be shown from the literature which the Centre distributes and the causes in which it is involved.  Mr Ellicott  stated that he had personally visited the Centre on 8 March. It is a joke around the Centre that a whitewash job was done for his benefit. In fact, a woman union official in Melbourne has provided me with material that she collected from the Centre both before and after  Mr Ellicott  's visit. This material includes leaflets advertising  Dr Bertram  Wainer's abortion clinic in Melbourne. Certainly, abortion is of interest- controversial interest- to all men and women, whether they are working or not, but is the promotion of abortion the purpose for which Federal Government funds are used? Since when has abortion been related to the pay and working conditions of unionists? The material collected from the Centre also includes propaganda from the Victorian Congress for International Co-operation and Disarmament. I think the most appropriate thing to be said about that body is that it would be a real red letter day if the Congress ever found anything warlike for which to condemn the Soviet Union or its activities. 
Another item collected from the Centre was a broadsheet entitled 'women and employment'. One might think that we are getting closer at last to something which deals directly with working women but the purpose of the broadsheet becomes clear when one reads right through it. The final paragraph states that capitalism is in 'real crisis' and 'only a planned socialist economy can meet the needs of the whole working class . . .' 
There are many people who would go along with  Senator Wheeldon  's comment. But it is truly incredible to me that this Liberal-National Country Party Government, by its fulsome endorsement of the Centre, is saying in effect that this kind of stuff is good news. Some people of course have their own attitudes as to the definition of a 'planned socialist economy' but others have a different attitude. The WWC and those who support it, like the Bulls and the Halfpennys, have a clear definition of those words. 
Another item collected from the Centre was the 18 October 1977 issue of  National U.  This was picked up before and after  Mr Ellicott  's visit. The  National U  is published by the Australian Union of Students. This was a special issue devoted to women's issues, but with a particularly unrepresentative moral and political approach. The issue deals approvingly with abortion, lesbian mothers, anti-uranium movements and homosexuality. Again, I wonder whether it is the real intention of the Government, by funding the Centre, to promote the distribution of such material. It is not particularly surprising that this kind of material should be freely available from the Centre because the Centre is really a political organisation. The two principal women at the Centre- Sylvie Shaw and Mary Owen- have both been prominently involved with the Women's Electoral Lobby. They have used the Centre to publicise WEI activities, including a forum addressed by that well known WEL activist,  Mr John  Halfpenny. 
When  Senator Guilfoyle  announced last year the Government's grant of $8,000 to the Centre and another grant to an organisation in Sydney, she stated in her Press release that she was particularly pleased that the Government had been able to assist these two organisations 'which had been established by working women to help themselves'. I believe that the words 'to help themselves' were thoroughly appropriate, but perhaps not in the same meaning as that used by the Minister. Certainly, the women of the WWC in Melbourne are 'helping themselves'. They are helping themselves to the right to speak on behalf of all working women. For that matter, by their involvement in non-working issues, they are claiming to speak on behalf of all women, not just those in the work force. I therefore found it quite incredible that a Minister of this Government was prepared to go to bat for the Centre and give it a status in the trade union movement which it neither warrants nor deserves and a status that has not been given to it by the trade union movement itself.  Mr Ellicott  's remarks were an insult to all of those unions which, in their own way and under their own rules, free of pressure from extreme radical feminists, are attempting to do something for their women members. 

 - Senator Melzer asks: Where?' I have gone through the question of equal pay before. I was the one who moved the crucial motion at the ACTU Congress for equal pay for work of equal value. I remind the Senate that it was the radical feminists who, in fact, moved an amendment to that motion that it be equal pay for equal work. The fact that the motion for equal pay for work of equal value was passed was the reason that equal pay for work of equal value was achieved. If it had been equal pay for equal work, a woman would almost have to be a hermaphrodite to obtain equal pay. In other words, a woman would have been forced to perform the same work under the same conditions, lifting the same weights and so on. In the liquor industry, for example, a barmaid would never have got the same pay as a barman. She could not have lifted the same weights. 
Some of the people who try to talk about this do not know what they are talking about. I took the first equal pay case in my State. I am very proud of the fact that I achieved as a result of that case equal pay for work of equal value. There are vast amounts of work to be done in the field of women's affairs for working women. This cannot be achieved by confusing the real issues confronting working women with the type of radical feminist rubbish portrayed through the Working Women's Centre. It is an insult not only to women but to the whole of the community and it is recognised as such. 
The official trade union movement has refused to recognise and endorse the Working Women's Centre.  Mr Ellicott  's remarks and  Senator Guilfoyle  's qualified defence of them show that this Government is a babe in the woods when it comes to industrial matters. I have said that before. I regret that it is necessary again to expose the Government's shortcomings in this public way but it seems not to have got the message. To her credit the Minister, prior to  Mr Ellicott  's remarks, had agreed to an interview with a very large union having a sizable female membership so that its point of view could be heard. Unfortunately, that interview had to be postponed through no fault of the Minister. 
No doubt the Minister in her explanation of the Government's support for the Centre will claim that the grant administered by her is a specific purpose grant to investigate child care matters and that it has nothing to do with the Centre's activities. That kind of explanation will not wash with me. One has to look only at the Centre's literature and its writings on the subject of government funding to realise that it sees any form of assistance as being to the organisation as a whole. The motion moved at the ACTU Congress which was designed to endorse the Centre and which was initiated by the Centre's supporters and defeated was phrased in terms of continued funding' of the Centre by the Federal Government. It matters little to the Centre whether the grant is supposed to be for investigating child care or any other subject. It is seen by the Centre as subsidising the Centre as a whole. 
I have struck this Government's blind spot on other occasions during my investigation of socalled specific purpose grants. One case was the grant to the Overseas Student Service which has now been withdrawn after the Government realised rather belatedly that the money was being used for purposes completely unrelated to its original intention. Yet time after time in Estimates Committee hearings innocent public servants defend a grant oblivious to the real situation. There was also the case of the Capital Territory Health Commission's grant to the socalled Women's Information Service in Canberra. Time after time public servants have defended the grant claiming that it has nothing to do with the abortion counselling service which is located at the same address, has the same telephone number and is staffed by the same people. Their files state that they are separate organisations but they are separate in name only. I shall be producing additional information on this grant to the forthcoming Estimates Committee meetings. 
I hope that  Senator Guilfoyle  and her colleagues- I emphasise again that my remarks are not directed to her in any personal way- will now realise why  Mr Ellicott  's remarks have prompted such astonishment. People are sceptical of the Centres 's involvement in non-working matters. They do not wish to see women's working issues become obscured and abused with non-working subjects such as abortion. They resent the Centre's attempt to by-pass the official trade union movement. They are sceptical of the so-called Women's Centre idea of the planned socialist economy. They are rightly suspicious of so-called peace organisations which act as propaganda arms of the Soviet Union. Fundamentally, they do not believe that the Women 's Electoral Lobby is a fully representative organisation. If the Working Women's Centre in Melbourne got rid of its partisan political propaganda attitude, confined itself to genuine working issues and was not so closely identified organisationally with WEL and other groups one might anticipate that the official trade union movement would reconsider its approach to it. For the time being I am not at all surprised, unlike  Senator Guilfoyle,  that the trade union movement has declined to become involved with it in any meaningful way. 
-As honourable senators would appreciate, an item in my name concerning unemployment is one of those matters of General Business that were to have come before the Senate this evening, as evidenced by the paper that came to us earlier in the week from the office of the Leader of the Government  (Senator Withers).  Admittedly, it is not on the informal Order of Business sheet that was circulated today. It concerned the very grave problem of unemployment. I would simply, without wasting the time of the Senate, register my objection to the fact that nobody consulted me about the change. Perhaps an arrangement was made between the Opposition and Government Whips, but it was my item of general business that was to have come before the Senate this evening and no one consulted me about an agreement that Government Business should take precedence over General Business. 
I would have expected the Government to extend me the courtesy of consulting me about it. When the vote on the Bill is taken, I shall have no option but to support the amendment proposed by the Opposition- not that I have even been able to understand fully its ramificationsfor the simple reason that at least if it is adopted it will give honourable senators a little more time to understand the Bill itself. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, refers to the decision of the Government to grant a visa to  Mr  Valadimir Kuzin  whose history as a KGB agent has been well documented, as has his history of using international organisations as a cover for his operations. The Government has agreed to issue a visa to  Mr Kuzin,  who is head of the Foreign Relations section of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics State Committee for Science and Technology, to visit Australia this month for trade talks. Will this officer be engaged in talks relating to fishing in Australia's extended economic zone and will those talks involve consideration of the Soviet fleet acting as an agent for Australian coastal surveillance? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question, which is based on a perception of the significance of international finance and economic strategy on Australia's internal health, is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is he aware that a conference of leading industrial states with parliamentary democracies to be attended by  President  Carter will be held in Bonn on 15 July to work out a strategy to drag the world out of recession, cut down unemployment, reduce trade protectionism and devise plans to reduce severe currency fluctuations? Is the Minister aware that the nations to attend that conference include Britain, France, West Germany, Italy, the United States of America, Canada and Japan? Has Australia been invited to that important conference? If not, will the Minister ascertain from the Treasurer whether diplomatic arrangements can be made for Australia to be at least an observer, or preferably a participant at that conference? 
I rise to support the Bill. I do not propose to go into the genesis of the establishment of the Australian Maritime College. That has been dealt with by previous speakers in one way or another. But I think that one point has been missed, and that is the Bass by-election. Although it was mentioned, it was not given the prominence that it deserved. It was very handy for a front bench member of the Liberal and Country Party Opposition at that time to be friendly with the then Leader of the Opposition. This, along with other things, ensured the declaration by the then Opposition of support for the establishment of the Maritime College in Launceston. The proposal would not have taken off if it had not received the blessing of Gough Whitlam- perhaps I should rephrase that and say 'it had not received the endorsement of Gough Whitlam'- at the time of the Bass byelection. 
I am not one to take up in this House or anywhere else the fights of Gough Whitlam since 1968-69. 1 was prepared to do so in 1966-67. But I feel that one must give credit where credit is due. We are talking about politics now. The politics of the Bass by-election were that when Lance Barnard resigned a vacancy was created, and a pre-selection took place for that vacancy. The preferred candidate, Jimmy Brassil, did not get pre-selection, unfortunately.. The candidate that did get pre-selection was, I think, a fellow called McCrostie, who was heavily supported at the time by the socialist left. He was the one who ran for the Australian Labor Party in the Bass byelection, weighted down by the socialist left lead in his saddle. I suppose it could be said that the advent of the Fraser Government was heralded by the Bass by-election. 
Of course, Gough Whitlam had to drag something out of the hat. I remember discussions taking place on this very matter. As a member of the executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions I was privy to information concerning the discussions which took place at that particular time within unions and between unions about the location of the Maritime College. Many of those people were against the establishment of the Maritime College in Launceston. I took the view that practically, because of the situation in Launceston as I said to  Senator Rae,  anyone who can navigate the Tamar River - 
I guarantee that I could not. It is a most difficult waterway. I have been involved in discussions over a number of years with the manager of the Port of Launceston Authority. It is a waterway which lends itself to the establishment of such a college. 
No, not at all. I am saying that at that particular time, both practically and politically, it was important that the decision was made that it be established in Launceston. 
Yes. I agree with  Senator Archer.  I just make the point that, being privy to the information at the time, I realised that because of the pressure that was on the Labor Prime Minister at that time he had to drag a rabbit out of the hat. That rabbit was the establishment of an Australian Maritime College in Launceston. I am very pleased that he promised to establish the College in Launceston. I have pursued a decentralist policy both inside and outside the Senate. But I think it is fair to say that he having made that statement, the die was cast. When the Fraser Government was elected, it was to the credit of the present Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, that he honoured the undertaking that was given during the Bass by-election and the Maritime College Bill was introduced by the previous Administration. We can see a bipartisan approach to the establishment of the Australian Maritime College in Launceston. 
I have long been of the opinion that a State with the geographical features of Tasmania could be in certain specified areas the centre for an education industry, for the want of a better term, for the whole of Australia. This is one area and forestry is another. I suggested on 9 March 1 978 during my speech in support of the motion for the establishment of a Senate Select Committee to investigate off-shore law enforcement that the Maritime College would be ideal for the instruction of personnel in a civilian coastguard. The Opposition should bear that in mind because, if such a coastguard is to be an appendage of the defence forces, it is most unlikely that that instruction role would be performed by the Maritime College. I agree with what  Senator Archer  said. The Maritime College could have a role for instruction of fishermen and in respect of fisheries in the territorial sea and the extended economic zone. 
Having said that - 
This Government of which  Senator Rae  is a supporter has issued a visa for Vladimir Kuzin to enter Australia. This man is well known as a KGB agent. He has a well established record as a KGB agent. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-  I will rule on the point of order raised by  Senator Rae. Senator Harradine,  a fair amount of latitude has been allowed in the debate on the Maritime College legislation. But on the other hand I ask you to endeavour to confine your remarks to the subject being debated at the present time. 
That is precisely what I am doing,  Mr Acting Deputy President. Senator Archer  referred to the fact that a number of propositions were before the Federal Government for foreign fishing vessels to operate in the extended economic zone. This is the matter to which I am referring. It was the matter to which I was referring when I mentioned Vladimir Kuzin 
Yes. He is in Australia as part of the trade delegation which is currently having talks with representatives of the Federal Government in an attempt to have the Russian fishing fleet operate in the extended economic zone. If  Senator Rae  accuses me of paranoia in making these statements, let me ask him: Does he deny that Russian fishing fleets have a well established record of surveillance and defence information gathering? If he does, tomorrow I will read to him in the Senate chamber, if I have a chance to do so, the well documented fact that Russian fishing fleets operate as an arm of the Russian defence force in the case of intelligence gathering. Does the honourable senator deny the fact that Vladimir Kuzin who is in this country as the head of the foreign relations section of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics Committee for Science and Technology has a well documented record as a KGB official and is using this international cover for his operations? Of course the honourable senator cannot deny it because it is a fact. It is suggested that this man is part of the team negotiating with the Australian Government in an attempt to obtain licence for the Russian foreign fishing fleet which has well established connections with the Russian war machine in intelligence gathering to operate in the extended economic zone. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Young)-Order!  Senator Harradine,  I ask you to relate these remarks to the matter under debate. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I am relating these remarks to the Bill, and I am coming to the point I wish to make.  Senator Archer  mentioned that the Government had a number of proposals before it. This is one of them. This is suggesting that the foreign fishing fleet should act as an agent for Australian coastal surveillance. I believe that in lieu of that sort of operation- that is to say, allowing the Russian fishing fleet or any other foreign fishing fleet to be an agent for our inadequate coastal surveillance- we ought to have a coastguard ourselves. The Maritime College ought to provide the training for that coastguard. If that is not relevant to the Bill, I do not know what is. In fact, I first raised that matter on 9 March 1978. 
I turn now to the question of fire fighting. This is a matter to which I believe insufficient attention has been given in Tasmania. Tasmania relies on a regular, reliable and adequate shipping service. What would happen if a fire broke out in one of the major ports? Are the urban fire brigades in the major cities and ports in Tasmania sufficiently equipped to deal with outbreaks of fire on vessels which not only could affect the lives and the cargoes on the vessels concerned but also could affect drastically the port facilities, lives and the general environment. As the industrial adviser to the United Firefighters Union in Tasmania, I can say that we are not adequately equipped to deal with a major ship fire in Tasmania. That is the reason I am raising this matter tonight. I believe that the Maritime College would be the appropriate place for the establishment of courses designed to provide experience for the very qualified urban fire-fighters that we have in the fire-fighting services in Tasmania. I believe that that suggestion should be passed on by the Minister to the Interim Council, and I hope he will do so. 
Having mentioned the Interim Council, I should also like to associate myself with my colleagues from Tasmania in congratulating the Interim Council for the work that it has done to this stage. I should like to associate myself with the accolades that have been paid to the Manager of the Port of Launceston Authority, Jack Edwards, who is a man of great vision and almost unbounding energy. I should also like to associate myself with the congratulations and best wishes which have been extended to Captain Waters. I hope that he and his Council will be encouraged by the support that the Bill has had in this chamber. 

 - Mr President- 
 (Quorum formed). I am forced to rise to answer the statements which have been made by  Senator Melzer  in respect of the Working Women's Centre. This is a matter which is of significance and importance not only to the women of Australia but also to those people working for the Federal Government who are concerned with ensuring that public moneys are properly accounted for. I make the point that  Senator Melzer  or anybody else can establish any centre they wish, can have whatever they wish in it and can advance whatever ideologies or policies they wish, but we are dealing with a centre which has received and still does receive public moneys. I think I am quite justified in discussing the matter in this chamber. It is a question of accountability of public funds. 
For the record, the Working Women 's Centre, which is not recognised by the Australian Council of Trade Unions or by the Victorian Trades Hall Council, has received $40,000 from the International Women's Year Secretariat, $8,000 in January 1977 from the Department of Social Security for child care study, $6,300 in April 1977 from a Federal Government grant, $200 in July-August 1977 from the Australia Council for arts information for the Working Women's Centre newsletter, a total of $54,500. It is not the amount that is in question; it is the principle. For the information of the Opposition I shall make two points. Firstly, I rose because I was angered by the statement of the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  that the Working Women's Centre was the only organisation within the trade union movement providing support for women. I rose in anger after  Senator Guilfoyle  provided what I believed was an inadequate answer. I do not blame her for that because she only represents the Minister in this place. 
I did so because I am President of a trade union, 70 per cent of whose members are women, and I take strong exception to that sort of statement. I went on to make a well-founded comment that the Working Women's Centre in Melbourne is not the only organisation within the union movement providing support for women. The facts are otherwise. The Working Women's Centre in Melbourne is unrepresentative, it involves itself in matters not directly relevant to women workers, it is hostile to the official trade union movement and it is a politically motivated organisation favouring the extreme Left and radical feminists. 
I repeat that it is significant that neither the Australian Council of Trade Unions nor the Victorian Trades Hall Council has endorsed the Centre. It is simply untrue for  Mr Ellicott  to say that it is the only organisation within the union movement providing support for women.  Senator Melzer  referred to the ACTU's Special Unions Conference on the Working Women's Chaner. That Conference passed a resolution which purported to support the Working Women's Centre. 
-I am coming to that. A little knowledge is a dangerous thing,  Senator Melzer.  That Conference purported to pass a resolution which purported to give supported to the Working Women's Centre. As the honourable senator probably does not know, under the rules of the ACTU the decisions made at any conference which is called by the ACTU as a special unions conference must be submitted to the ACTU Executive for endorsement or otherwise. The decisions of that Conference were submitted to the Executive. The resolution purporting to give support to the Working Women 's Centre was ruled out of order by  President  Hawke as being contrary to the decisions of the Biennial Congress of the ACTU in Sydney on 13 September 1977. 
That resolution, which was proposed at the ACTU's Special Unions Conference and second by  Mr Ted  Bull, the Vice-President of the Communist Party of Australia, Marxist-Leninist, and the Secretary of the Melbourne branch of the Waterside Workers Federation, of which there are no women members, was opposed and rejected by the ACTU Congress. Whom does  Senator Melzer  represent in this chamber? Does she represent the workers of this country or does she represent the radical feminists? I take exception to an accusation that I have done nothing within the trade union movement to support a wage that is capable of sustaining a family unit. For many years I, along with Albert Monk and others, supported the concept of a basic wage.  Senator Bishop  and others in this chamber also supported for many years the view that there should be a wage sufficient to provide for the needs of a family unit. Since the unit wage was introduced I have been vocal in my support for increased child endowment and in my support for a mother's allowance which would entitle and enable women to make a true free choice as to whether or not they will go out to work. 
The facts of life are these: Because the Women's Working Centre and its like oppose a proper mother's allowance women are forced to go out to work to make ends meet. Let it not be forgotten that these are the radical feminists who are the real enemies of justice for the vast majority of women, women who are working in the home doing the most important job in the world, raising future citizens. I also take strong exception to the accusation that I have no knowledge of the trials and sometimes the psychological distress which confront a woman with an unwanted pregnancy. I take exception to that accusation because for a number of years I have been one of the strongest supporters of the organisation known as Pregnancy Support. I suggest to the Federal Government that, rather than putting taxpayers' money down the drain, it should look at the organisation named Pregnancy Support and at the Borrie Report to see whether or not it would be money well spent to provide a realistic amount to ensure that Pregnancy Support became well and widely known. 
I do not want to go into the argument in relation to abortion, but I for one will not accept a situation in this country where those who stand for the right to life of any person, whether that person be unborn or not, are going to be on the defensive. I refer the Minister to the fact that the Working Women 's Centre does in fact promote a profit-oriented abortion clinic in Melbourne, namely, the clinic operated by  Dr Bertram  Wainer and associates. Here are documents from the Working Women's Centre.  (Quorum formed).  I was pointing out that the Working Women's Centre is a proponent of and an agent for  Dr Bertram  Wainer's profit oriented abortion clinic in Melbourne. As I said before, this is a free country, but we are dealing with an organisation which is receiving taxpayers ' funds and it is legitimate for the Parliament of this nation to ensure that those taxpayers' funds are put to the purpose for which they were designed. 
We have an admission by  Senator Melzer  that the Working Women's Centre is a politically oriented organisation. She admits that it carries out political campaigns for the Congress for International Cooperation and Disarmament. She admits that this is the sort of literature that is available at and distributed and disseminated by the Working Women's Centre. Apart from the literature, it also provides for those who want them, and those who do not want them, anti-uranium stickers and the like. As I said before, this is a free country, but we are talking about a centre which is not recognised by the Australian Council of Trade Unions or the Victorian Trades Hall Council but which presumably, for some reason, is recognised by the Federal Government. 
The purpose of my putting into the  Hansard  record of the Senate the Sara Dowse parable is as follows: The Sara Dowse parable is certainly not obscure to me and I believe that it ought not to be obscure to anybody else. Sara Dowse was formerly the Assistant Secretary of the Office of Women's Affairs in the Department of Prime 
Minister and Cabinet, which Office was transferred to the Department of Home Affairs. She has since resigned. Put quite simply, the Sara Dowse parable indicates that whilst she was working as an adviser to this Government, her first loyalty was to a non-Public Service organisation, the Women's Electoral Lobby and that she saw WEL and its attitudes as providing an integrated backdrop for the Women's Affairs Office of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet. I just wonder who  Senator Melzer  is representing. I raised this matter not to have a fight with the Opposition but to have a fight with the Government over a statement that one of the Government's Ministers has made. And here we have  Senator Melzer  defending an organisation which is also defended by Tas Bull and our friend John Halfpenny, but which is not recognised by the ACTU or the Victorian Trades Hall Council. I deny the statement she made that women have been referred to Women's Action Alliance - 
-Because I have contacted Women's Action Alliance and it denies that any women have reached it. Of course, it cannot deny what it does not know, but it can say that no women have come to it from the Working Women's Centre. Now  Senator Melzer,  in supporting this situation, is supporting those who support also the Union of Australian Women. I think she yesterday, or on Friday, raised a question as to why the Union of Australian Women was not associated with something or other. We all know what the Union of Australian Women is: It is really an arm of the Socialist Party of Australia. It is affiliated with the Women's International Democratic Federation. Why am I raising that? I am raising it because the Government gets into problems with the Working Women's Centre because of the advice it gets from its Home Affairs Office. The Government could get into a lot of international trouble if, as has occurred, reports going to international bodies from the Women's Affairs Bureau of the Department, via the Department of Foreign Affairs, put forward the concept that the Union of Australian Women and the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom are the only organisations in Australia dealing with women's affairs. I will have a little more to say about that matter if I am tempted, but will leave it at that for the present. 
Are we to gather from the Minister's reply that the words 'maritime-related' contained in clause 7 (a) will not permit the establishment of courses or perhaps simulated situations in which experienced fire fighters could engage in courses which would give them the expertise and training to deal with major ship fires? If that is what is being suggested, I would suggest to the Committee that the matter be deferred and that the Government introduce whatever amendments are necessary to allow for such training. 
In my speech in the debate on the second reading I asked the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  whether he would give consideration to the suggestion that the Australian Maritime College be in the position to have courses which could be availed of by urban fire brigades for training to cover ship fires. I wonder whether the Minister has given any consideration to the suggestion and whether he has any comment. 
-I point out to the Committee that so far as the discussions on the site were concerned, I was privy- as a member of the Australian Council of Trade Unions executive at the time- to information relating to the discussions that took place amongst maritime unions in respect of the establishment of a maritime college. As mentioned last night, a number of those unions were not in favour of the establishment of the Australian Maritime College at Launceston. I believed that it was the appropriate site. Indeed, those of us within the trade union movement were made aware that politically this was the most appropriate site. 
I listened to what  Senator Grimes  said, and nothing that he said suggested that there was any announcement by the then Government until the Bass by-election that the siting would be at Launceston. The record would prove that that is the case- that there was no public commitment or statement on behalf of the then Government that the site would be in Launceston. The comments I made last evening still stand- not only was the site the most appropriate for the establishment of the Maritime College but also that that became a reality was dependent largely on the Bass by-election. In fact, the decision and announcement made by the then Prime Minister, which were followed by legislation during his Administration, were witnesses to that fact. 
That is correct. It was also to the credit of the current Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, that one of the first statements he made after becoming Prime Minister was that he would reintroduce that legislation which was introduced by the previous Administration for the establishment of a maritime college. Of course, legislation was introduced for the establishment of the Interim Council. That legislation received the unanimous support of this chamber and, indeed, of the other place. This legislation, likewise, is receiving the unanimous support of this chamber and is expected to receive the unanimous support of the other place. 
I give the lie to the statements that have been made by  Senator Rae.  At no stage did I suggest that the siting of the Australian Maritime College was the result of the Bass by-election. In fact, I gave credit to the work that was done over a long period by the then Opposition parties in regard to the siting of the college at Launceston. As I mentioned, I was involved in discussions and, indeed, privy to information at meetings when the question was raised as to where the maritime college would be sited. This was well before the Bass by-election. Even well before the Bass byelection, I was convinced that so far as Tasmania was concerned Launceston would be the appropriate place for the siting of such a college. What I said last night was to the effect- and it cannot be denied- that the Bass by-election gave a stimulus to the establishment of the College, and it is a good thing that such situations occur politically because there are many occasions when we cannot get a very great idea off the ground until such time as the political climate is adequate. 
During discussions in the second reading stage of the Maritime College (Interim Council) Bill, I raised for the consideration of the Committee and of the Minister the need for representations of the maritime unions to be involved with the 
Interim Council. I would be doing less than justice to the Minister if I did not at this stage congratulate him publicly on ensuring that those suggestions were carried forward. It is a credit to him and to those people responsible that the Interim Council has worked so well and that it has suggested this clause, which I support. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 12 (Election of staff members). 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister.  Senator Withers  will recall that on 7 April I asked him a question concerning the visit to Australia of  Mr Vladimir  Kuzin who has been positively identified as having engaged in clandestine activities against foreign countries as a KGB agent.  Senator Withers  may recall also that 

 Senator Rae on Tuesday night implied that my mention of the KGB exemplified paranoia. Is the Minister in a position to inform the Senate of the truth or otherwise of an item in yesterday's  Canberra Times  which indicates that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has withdrawn from proposed science talks because of the Government's presumably strong opposition to the presence of another KGB agent in  Mr Kuzin  's delegation? Will the Minister take  Senator Rae  aside one day and draw his attention to those sections of the Hope Royal Commission, which was appointed by  Mr Whitlam  's Government, which show that a non-communist government, such as Australia's government, should be alert to attempts by KGB agents to pose as members of science, trade and similar delegations? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science or perhaps to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is it a fact that Australia has been neglectful in researching and developing its marine resources? If so, does this mean that Australia is at a serious disadvantage when it declares its 200-mile exclusive economic zone? Is Australia making any effort to overcome what appears to be an acute lack of knowledge and appreciation of the enormous food resources at its doorstep? 
It is clear from what has been said by honourable senators in this debate that very few of them, if any, apart from the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster),  completely support the Bill. The inadequacies of the Bill are to be found not only in its content; the timing of its introduction in this chamber by the Government is also inadequate. Time for proper study and investigation has not been allowed. Indeed it has been intimated to us by the States and by the industry that they feel they are over a barrel in respect of this piece of legislation. If its passage were held up they would have found themselves in the position of not having the maintenance money that is provided for in it. 
I agree with what  Senator Wright  has said. It is bluff by the Government. That has been mentioned also by  Senator Rae.  I make it perfectly clear that I intended to support the proposition that the legislation be referred to a select committee which would be able to investigate its ramifications and to bring down a report in August or September. One of the distressing points about this legislation, which is to operate for a period of five years, is the presumption upon which it is based. Are we to assume from the legislation, which does not provide for new plantings, that there would be no demand for this product at the time of maturity of any new plantings? If we are to assume that then it represents a very sad picture of the future of Australia. We should be concerned that the Government is not making provision for new plantings because it means that the Government is saying that there will be stagnation in Australia's population. If that is so, we are in a very parlous state, not only from the point of view of development of this country but also from the point of view of the defence of this country. The only alternative consideration to that conclusion is that the Government has made some arrangement for the supply of timber products from other countries. If it has done so, let us have all the facts. Let us know what countries they are coming from. 
No, I am not. The point I am making is that the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, of which  Senator Townley  and  Senator Mulvihill  were members, in regard to taxation incentives have not been implemented by the Government. I would have liked a committee of the Senate to examine the matter. Even at this stage I wonder whether it was appropriate or desirable for the honourable senator who foreshadowed moving such an amendment to decide not to move it, particularly in view of what  Senator Martin  has just said about this matter being in the hands of the Government. 
What is being said is that the majority of Opposition senators, except me and possibly  Senator Janine  Haines, would not vote for that proposition. I wish that they would because that would then enable the Senate to make two things perfectly clear to the 
Government; firstly, that legislation that comes before this chamber should receive mature consideration and, secondly, that it should be introduced in accordance with a timetable which would enable honourable senators to do their homework on it and to vote in an appropriate fashion. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. I refer him to the following election promise made by the Prime Minister on 21 November 1977: 
The Government intends to grant Service pensions to qualified allied ex-service personnel on the same basis as Service pensions are granted to British Commonwealth servicemen resident in Australia. 
When will the enabling legislation be introduced into the Parliament and will that legislation also include an extension of other repatriation benefits to these personnel? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that yesterday between 7.30 a.m. and 7.34 a.m. Canberra radio station 2XX played a record which contained the refrain: 'I went with some friends to rape a girl'? Does radio station 2XX still operate under an education licence with certain restrictions which state that it can broadcast only material of an educational character? What steps do the broadcasting authorities take to monitor what is broadcast over 2XX? Is it correct that 2XX is now in the process of transforming itself into a so-called community station and that it has hopes of obtaining the community station licence which will be issued for Canberra? Can the Minister explain to the Senate the educational character of a record which contains the refrain:  I went with some friends to rape a girl '? I should add that my attention was drawn to this matter by a Canberra woman who was listening to 2XX at breakfast time yesterday with her young daughters. This woman was so incensed with the record that she has now lodged a formal complaint with the police and the broadcasting authorities. 
The Senate may recall that on Thursday, 1 1 May, I directed a question to the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  about a record played on the Canberra educational radio station 2XX. I referred to some words in the song, namely: 
I went with some friends to rape a girl. 
I pointed out that my attention was drawn to this incident by a Canberra woman who had been listening to 2XX with her young daughters at breakfast time. The Minister replied that 'On the face of it it is an excruciating example of bad taste and immaturity' and promised to refer the matter to the Minister concerned. My question received some Press reports, both here and interstate. The  Canberra Times  on Friday, 12 May, reported:   . . the  president  of the board of management of Campus Community Broadcasting Association Incorported (licensee of radio 2XX) Miss Claire McGrath, said yesterday that 2XX had a firm policy that material of a racist or sexist nature should not be broadcast. 
I ask honourable senators to note  Ms McGrath's  comment because I shall refer to it later. I also received a call from a student radio station in, of all places, Perth which wanted to interview me about the question. That turned out to be one of the strangest interviews in which I have ever been involved. The interviewer in all seriousness asked me what I objected to in the words 'I went with some friends to rape a girl'. I understand that the interview was played on 6NR in Perth late that afternoon, Friday 12 May. I now return to 2XX. Early last week I received a letter from the 2XX announcer who had been involved in the incident. In fairness to him, I propose to read his letter in full to the Senate. It is dated 13 May 1978. It said: 
Dear  Senator Harradine, 
I am writing in respect of a question you directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Senator Carrick,  on Thursday 1 1 May 1978 regarding the broadcast of 'indecent' material on radio station 2XX on Wednesday 10 May. 
As I was the announcer 'on air' at the time in question I believe you made a serious error in judgment in bringing the matter to the attention of the Minister before you had the full facts at your disposal. 
I would therefore like to take this opportunity to explain exactly what did happen between 7.30 and 7.34 a.m. on Wednesday 11 May 1978. 
Firstly, the record in question was in the 2XX record library unmarked in any way to suggest that the song was unsuitable for air-play so I included it in a segment which was intended to bring to the attention of the listeners the musical versatility of the performer, who is one of the major forces in the Australian recording industry today. The way in which I demonstrated this versatility was to first play the song in question, after which I said words to the effect of: 'That was Bob Hudson (the performer) at his most ridiculous. We'll now hear something from the same album of a much more serious nature.' (This can be verified by listening to the log tapes). In this sense I believe this segment was of an educational nature. 
Secondly, I personally do not agree with the glorification of rape in any way and I believe that the purpose of the song was to ridicule the type of person who would perpetrate this sort of crime, an objective that was realised very successfully by the general tone of the song and the final line of the stanza which was: ' I went with some friends to rape a girl, but I was embarrassed so I held her handbag'. I would also point out that this line does not constitute the refrain (which is what you said). 'Refrain' implies constant repetition throughout the song and the words in question arc in fact part of a single verse only. 
I fail to understand why it is considered offensive to draw the attention of women and girls to the fact that there are men in the community who could attempt to rape them but had your complainant contacted me at the time to express her feelings I would have immediately and publicly apologised for causing offence where it was not intended, and explained again the educational purpose of the segment. 
You should be interested to know that the management has since placed a notation beside that particular track onlydirecting that it is not fit for air-play. In my view there are other songs on the album which could be definitely be classed as sexist and offensive, but they have no such direction, thus it would seem my standards are higher than the management's. If at any time you would like to listen to any of the songs on the album, my parents have since obtained a copy and you are invited to visit the above address at our mutual convenience to listen to any of the songs on the record. 
I would also draw your attention to the report on the Public Inquiry into the concept of Self Regulation for Australian Broadcasters issued by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal in July 1977, paragraph 18.13 which deals with the Code of Ethics for Public Broadcasting that clearly states in relation to controversial issues that: 
Any kind of censorship should be avoided and varying viewpoints should be encouraged, unless these conflict with station policy': and 
Station policy should be regularly and clearly stated on air'. 
In the twelve months I have been associated with 2XX 1 have never heard or read of any aspects of station policy that forbids the broadcast of the type of material I played on Wednesday morning (in spite of the response given by 2XX to the  Canberra Times-  as published on Friday 12 May 1978). 
Finally, as a result of your premature action I have been banned indefinitely from 2XX- a very harsh penalty, you must agree- for doing something that, as I have explained, is within the limits of both 2XX's current licence and public morals. 
Your faithfully. 
That letter is quite remarkable and very honest. I wish to draw to the attention of the Senate three aspects of it. The radio announcer had been banned indefinitely from the station and considered this to be harsh treatment. I am inclined to agree with that. It looked as though he had been selected as a scapegoat. Apparently others thought so, too, because last night he was reinstated. The second point that I draw to the attention of the Senate is this: The announcer says that the management has now placed a notation beside that track only, directing that it is not fit for airplay. But he adds that other songs on the album, which he believes could be definitely classed as sexist and offensive, have no such direction. The management's action would appear to confirm the objections of the woman who first raised the matter with me. Thirdly, he says that he has been associated with station 2XX for 12 months. He continues: 
. I have never heard or read of any aspects of station policy that forbids the broadcast of the type of material I played on Wednesday morning (in spite of the response given by 2XX to the  Canberra Times- as  published on Friday 12 May 1978)'. 
I remind the Senate of  Ms McGrath's  words, quoted earlier, that station 2XX allegedly had a firm policy that material of a racist or sexist nature should not be broadcast. There are, in fact, three specific conditions attached to the experimental licence granted to station 2XX. One bans advertising matter, another refers to the program guides of the Broadcasting Control Board being used as guidelines and the third limits the station to matters of an educational character. I shall read the third condition in full because, as far as I am aware, it is still attached to the 2XX licence. It states: 
The station shall be used for the purpose of transmitting messages, being messages containing matter of an educational character, intended for aural reception by the staff and students of the Australian National University. 
In the two years that station 2XX has been broadcasting, this condition has been ignored. The management of radio station 2XX grabbed the educational licence when it was made available but, really, it operated station 2XX as a socalled community station. Now that a category C licence- that is, a community radio station licence- is being offered in Canberra, the station is calling itself public radio 2XX. It did that as early as 1 April this year in an advertisement in the  Canberra Times.  I am sure that if the only licence available to Canberra were for a sports radio station, it would apply for that licence and continue broadcasting in whatever fashion it chose, ignoring any special notations and conditions. But, having been alerted about station 2XX by the woman who approached me with great concern about the song which 2XX has now banned, I arranged for the station to be listened to more closely to determine the type of education material which it was broadcasting. The Senate may be interested to learn that station 2XX has its own special program for Canberra homosexuals. It might be said: 'Well, so what?' But as far as I am aware no State or Territory has altered the laws that relate to paederasts, that is those who are sexually attracted to children. 
On the very day that the  Canberra Times  carried the report about what I had said in the Senate and also  Ms McGrath's  disclaimer about 2XX's so-called firm policy, the weekly 2XX program for homosexuals carried an interview with a woman who runs a so-called counselling agency in Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra and who charges a membership fee of $250 for 2 years involvement with the agency. In this interview she was asked about her activities on behalf of homosexual clients and whether any paederasts contacted her. I would like to read in full that small portion of the interview relating to the question which she was asked about that subject and her reply. This is an extract from the interview on the  Gay  program which station 2XX broadcast between 6 p.m. and 6.20 p.m. on Friday, 12 May 1978. 
I can provide you with a tape,  Mr Minister,  if you so desire. The interviewer said: 
Another question I'd like to ask you is the rather controversial question of paedophilia and paederasty. I noticed in the papers awhile ago, in England, there was a considerable amount of publicity concerning the subject and, of course, it is very illegal and highly dangerous to be associated, to actually get involved in a paederastic relationship. Do you have many paedophiles (  (paederastists.  sic) contact your organisation, if so, how could you help them? 
The woman 's reply is as follows: 
I was, in fact, in England, John, at the time that the to-do about paedophilia came up. I was attending a conference on love and attraction. The week after there was a conference of paedophiles in London. At the conference  were  many psychologists and sexologists and we had some closed sessions on the sexual side of things and quite a lot of attention was devoted to paedophilia. As attested by the conference in London of paedophiles it is now becoming much more open and the issue is really being looked at. The attitude of the sexologists at the conference was that paedophilia and paederasty as such were not necessarily detrimental of themselves and, in fact, that some very valuable relationships throughout history have developed between older and younger people of this nature. However, with the society's attitudes as they are at present, the damage that can be done is more of a psychological nature- the youngster concerned starting to feel guilty and an outcast and a misfit and to that extent there was concern expressed as to facilitating or approving such relationships. I have had very few inquiries from acknowledged paederasts. Obviously, I cannot facilitate people who have that bent meeting the objects of their sexual desire. However, I can put people into contact so that they can share this particular orientation that they have. 
The interviewer then said: 
Well, we are almost at the end of our program. 
The lady then went on to answer a question about where her organisation could be contacted in Canberra and what fees she charged. That was when she revealed that the membership fee was $250 for a two-year stint. I ask every honourable senator to give some thought to her comment: 'I can put people into contact so that they can share this particular orientation that they have'. To me this is analogous to someone saying: 'Robbing banks is illegal; society's attitudes as they are at present are against it, but if a bank robber comes to me I will arrange to introduce him to other bank robbers'. What are they going to do? Are they going to sit down and work out a crossword puzzle? I do not think so. Will the number of bank robberies decrease as a result of that introduction? I certainly do not think so. If I were a bank manager I would be very concerned that such introductions were being arranged and, similarly, being a parent I am concerned that this woman is prepared to make the introductions that she has admitted to on 2XX. 
What are the appropriate authorities doing about 2XX? A licence to broadcast is a very valuable commodity indeed. It may not have a monetary value attached to it in this case but it is valuable nevertheless. No ordinary member of the public can set up a radio station and broadcast all over the city as 2XX does. Have the authorities been monitoring 2XX? Has it kept to the three conditions attached to its licence? It is not just the Minister or the Department of Education who have ultimate responsibility about the matter. I understand that the Australian National University Students Association gave $7,000 to 2XX and that the Canberra College of Advanced Education Students Association gave $3,000. Also, the Australia Council gave $ 10,000 for equipment. Further, the Australian National University pays for the transmitter that 2XX uses. The University Centre for Continuing Education assists 2XX and a  Mr Brendan  O 'Dwyer from that Centre is the University representative on the 2XX board. 
We in the Senate have two representatives on the Council of the Australian National UniversitySenator James McClelland and  Senator Rae.  I recall  Senator Rae  recently defending the Australian National University against attacks on it by a journalist. I would like to hear what he has to say about 2 XX. I would like him to reveal to the Senate the exact link between the University and 2XX. For example, is it correct that the University owns the building from which 2XX broadcasts? Does it charge 2XX rent? If one looks up the Canberra telephone directory one finds that 2 XX is listed as an integral part of the Australian National University entry in the book. Obviously it is connected with the Australian National University. If this is so, what action has the University taken to ensure that 2 XX complies with the conditions of its licence? Does the Council of the University receive reports from its representative on the board of 2XX? 
Of course there may be many useful features of 2XX broadcasts. I understand that various migrant groups broadcast once a week on that station and that sometimes it has classical music programs and so on. But just because 2XX now has a grip on University patronage, funds from the Australia Council and grants from student bodies, it does not necessarily mean that it is the appropriate vehicle to hold Canberra's community licence when it is granted. The Government may consider that it is in a fix in this situation; that it allowed 2XX to obtain an educational licence because of some obscure promise made by a Minister in 1975. Perhaps it is happy to throw the whole question in respect of new licences over to some other organisation such as the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and hopes that the University will knock some sense into the station. But for two years now 2XX has thumbed its nose at the conditions which were placed on its licence. Will the Government now give it a community licence and let it go hell for leather, completely turning a blind eye to the way in which it made, and is making, a mockery of being an 'educational ' station? 
More importantly, I would like to receive an undertaking from the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers),  who is responsible for the Commonwealth Police, that he will arrange for an investigation of the admission made in the interview about paederasts. I shall be quite happy to provide the Minister with a tape of that interview. The fundamental reason I have raised this matter in the Senate is that I am well aware that there are people who still see Canberra as the social laboratory for the rest of Australia. If the authorities in Canberra are prepared to accept this kind of rubbish as being educational and suitable for broadcasting by a radio station which has a limited educational licence, what will they allow a community radio station to broadcast? Those people who seek vigorously to promote attitudinal changes by the use of a radio station over which they have unrestricted control in the social laboratory of Canberra need to be told that their activities are not welcome or acceptable in the States. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice, on 1 3 April 1 978: 
How many days has the Chief Judge of the Federal Court of Australia sat: (a) at hearings of actions brought in the Industrial Division of that Court; (b) at hearings of actions brought in the General Division of that Court; and (c) on an inquiry or inquiries appointed by the Commonwealth Government, since the Court's establishment. 

 -Mr President, I join with other senators in congratulating you on being elected to the office of  President  of the Senate. Your office is not made easy by two factors. One is the presence of a new party, the Australian Democrats, and the other is that you still have an Independent senator. Your task is not made easy by virtue of those factors. Certainly our task is not made easy by the fact that the business of the Senate is sorted out between the Leader of the Government, the Leader of the Opposition and the various Whips, often without any reference to us. The right of an independent senator in this place, and indeed the right of any senator in this place, to voice the opinions of his or her electors does not depend on the Leader of the Government, the Leader of the Opposition or the Whips. It depends on you,  Mr President.  I am sure that you will continue to act in the way that you have acted over the past three years, to my knowledge, in providing the opportunity as required for independent senators and other senators who are not members of the major parties to express the viewpoints for which they were elected by the people of their particular State. 
-I also congratulate  Senator Scott  on his election. I associate myself with the remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  who said that he was sure that  Senator Scott  would carry on the very effective work performed by his predecessor as  Chairman  of Committees,  Senator Tom  Drake-Brockman. 
I find it difficult to make a reasoned comment on some of the remarks that have been made about the Holy Father in this condolence motion. I will therefore refer to some of the comments that have been made in the Press and which have sought to paint the late Holy Father as either a latter day Wolsey, a diplomat trying to tread the middle path between so-called conservatives and so-called progressives within the church, and or as some sort of modern Humpty-dumpty who was afraid to fall off the wall on one side or the other. Both of those descriptions are totally unworthy of a person who was a saintly religious man and who sought the truth fearlessly. I give only two examples to those in the media who are now painting that sort of picture. I refer first to the famous encyclical of almost 10 years ago, Humanae Vitae'. That encyclical which the Holy Father wrote upheld the deeply human and divine significance of the act of procreation. Some of the people in the media who are painting the picture that I mentioned previously are the ones who, moved by vested interests, were the first to criticise the Holy Father for his encyclical, .U'.---I- Vitae' 
It has often been said that the Holy Father was seeking a peace which was not a true peace; that is, a peace with justice. At no stage did the Holy Father make any statement which called for unilateral disarmament. On each occasion he was careful to state that if disarmament were to be realistic it should be multilateral. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  mentioned that the Holy Father instituted a world day of peace. I quote from his message of 1 January 1976. In respect of disarmament, he said: 
Military disarmament, if it is not co constitute an unforgivable error of impossible optimism, of blind ingenuousness, of a tempting opportunity for others' oppression, should bc common and general. Disarmament is either for everyone or it is a crime of neglect to defend oneself. Does not the sword, in the concert of historical and concrete life in society, have its own reason for being, for justice and for peace? 
He was alluding to Romans 13:4. He continued: 
Yes, we must admit it. 
In that sense he gave the lie to those who would take unto themselves the complete misnomer of Christian pacifists. He gave the lie to those who would suggest that the biblical injunction of turning the other cheek, which is important for individuals, means that one is able to lift the head of the oppressed so that the oppressor can beat it again and again. No, the Holy Father was not that sort of person. 
I have noticed that some commentators have said that one of the capabilities of the next Pope should be that he can smile. Most of the Holy Father's writings up until about six months ago were full of Christian hope and the joy of Christian living. But certainly in the last few months the Holy Father became saddened. I am familiar with the two reasons for this. Firstly, the death of Aldo Moro was a very great personal tragedy for Pope Paul. All honourable senators will remember that the Holy Father went as far as offering his own life in exchange for that of Aldo Moro. The second matter that caused him great anguish was the passage by the Italian Parliament of laws which made for easier abortion procurement. The Holy Father was outspoken in respect of that matter. He said in his peace message this year: 
Accordingly we cannot fail to disapprove of each and every offence against nascent life, and we must appeal to every Authority, and to everyone who has due competence, to work for the prohibition of procured abortion and for its remedy. 
Only two months before he died he warned that doctors who carry out operations under Italy's new abortion law would face excommunication. He was not a person treading the middle path between so-called conservatives and progressives. He was a man who realised that in life and death issues there is no middle path. Pope Paul was a saintly and learned man who was seeking religious and moral truth and who was attempting to gain unity. He has taken the world and the Christian and other churches a long way along that path. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security whose answer to the Opposition spokesman on social security matters,  Senator Grimes,  did not explain in any way the statement at page 86 of the Budget Papers that the new family allowance income test would save $90m. Will the Minister agree that the saving of $90m will mean that the effect of this new policy will be widespread? Does this proposed new scheme mean that every child who earns over $6 a week will thereby prevent his or her mother from receiving the full amount of the family allowance to which she is entitled? Is it correct that this new scheme will come into effect on 1 January 1979? Is not 1979 the International Year of the Child? How does this proposed new scheme benefit Australian children? Finally, does the Government have some kind of hostility against children who are attempting to supplement their pocket money by delivering newspapers, et cetera? 
I do not think the time of the Committee need be taken up unduly by a debate on this matter. We are debating the third report of the Standing Orders Committee for the fifty-ninth session and the proposition that has been put forward by  Senator Durack,  that Standing Orders  36AA  and  36AB  be amended to include a minority group or groups and to re-include an independent senator or senators. Of course I support that proposition. There are two questions involved in this matter. The first is the right of membership of committees, and the second is the right of participation. There are two aspects to the question of the right of membership, the first being the right to nominate, which is provided for in this amendment. The second aspect is the question of being able to become a member of particular committees. That naturally is in the hands of the 
Senate, and that is where it should be. I do not quibble with that at all. Once one puts one's hat in the ring one has to take the chance of being elected or otherwise. 
I think that the Government and particularly the Opposition will recognise that so far as I am concerned, since the previous amendment of Standing Orders  36AA  and  36AB,  I have not sought to nominate as a member of the legislative and general purposes committees or of the Estimates committees. I have not done so because there is a provision in Standing Order  36AA  as follows: 
A senator, though not a member of a standing committee, may participate in its public sessions and question witnesses, unless the committee orders otherwise, but shall not vote. 
The same applies to Estimates committees. Whilst I have recognised the role of the Opposition and the need for the Opposition to be well represented on the committees, that provision has been convenient for me. I have a wide range of interests including defence, foreign affairs, social welfare, industrial relations and transport. This arrangement has enabled me to go to the various Estimates committees and to participate in the questioning of the Minister and the departmental officers concerned. It has worked out very well. So I have no quibble about that provision. I note that paragraph 5 of the Standing Orders Committee report states: 
The Standing Orders Committee will continue its study of the general question of participation of Independents and minority groups on committees, and related matters. 

 Senator Georges raised a very important point concerning the legislative and general purpose standing committees. He referred to the practicability of honourable senators taking advantage of Standing Order  36AA  (9), the Standing Order relating to participation, when of course we have to foot our own bills. That is a matter at which perhaps the Standing Orders Committee should look to see whether it is appropriate for some sort of recommendation to be made to the Remuneration Tribunal to make effective the provisions of Standing Order  3  6  AA  (9). 
The other aspect at which I would submit the Standing Orders Committee might look is the provision for joint committees. I recognise that because of the nature of joint committees a similar provision for the rights of Independents and minority senators, or indeed for any named group of senators to nominate, is not appropriate in those circumstances. I feel also that members of parliament perhaps should have some rights of participation in the joint committees, without having the right to vote. Perhaps that is another matter which could be worthy of consideration by the Standing Orders Committee as promised in Item 5 of the report which says that the Committee will continue its study of the general question of participation. 
Some concern has been expressed that the research officers who are to be appointed to the Estimates committees be available for members of the Opposition, and presumably other senators. I think that that is a matter for concern and perhaps a matter for clarification from the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  I refer to the report of the Standing Orders Committee. On page 1, paragraph 3, it states: 
It is considered that the nature of the research work to be carried out by the research officers should be under the direction of the respective Committees and their Chairmen. 
As we all know, the purpose of the Estimates committees is rigorously to scrutinise the estimates for the various Government departments. It is a question of accountability of public funds. The Estimates committees examine 600 or 700 items involving billions of dollars. Much of their work, of course, entails attempting to ensure that the money that is provided is spent as expeditiously and wisely as possible. But some of the questions that arise are in politically sensitive areas. It is in those areas where members of the Opposition and indeed all senators ought to have the independent right to go to a research officer to put a series of questions to him perhaps without the  chairman  or Government members being aware of what those questions are so that senators can go to the Estimates committees and truly examine the Ministers and the heads of government departments on the Estimates. I think the easy and most effective way of ensuring this is for the  President  to give an assurance that, subject to workloads of course, research officers for that purpose will be available to all senators. 
-A very interesting point has been raised. I do not want to debate with  Senator Keeffe  whether the Senate is a parties ' House or a States' House. My view is that clearly it is a States' House and that, both within the caucus and within the parliamentary parties, the equality of representation from the States is an important factor. We have had revealed an interpretation which puts limits upon the ability of an honourable senator to participate in the discussions of a legislative and general purpose standing committee. There is a difference between Standing Order 36AA(9) and Standing Order 36AB ( 10). Standing Order 36AB(10), which deals with Estimates committees, states: 
A  Senator, though  not a member of a Committee, may attend and participate in its deliberations, and question witnesses unless the Committee orders otherwise, but shall not vote. 
Standing Order 36AA(9), which deals with legislative and general purpose standing committees, states: 
A  Senator, though  not a member of a Standing Committee, may participate in its public sessions and question witnesses, unless the Committee orders otherwise, but shall not vote. 
Clearly that Standing Order is more restrictive than that containing provisions which entitle a senator to participate in the deliberations of an Estimates committee. I do not think it is too late tonight to add an amendment to the current proposition which would have the effect of giving a senator the same rights on a legislative and general purpose standing committee as he has on an Estimates committee. Judging from the debate that has preceded the discussion on this particular item of the report of the Standing Orders Committee, I think such a proposition would meet with the approval of all concerned. I would hope that it would. In order to test the feeling of honourable senators on that particular matter 1 would be prepared to move as an amendment to the current proposition that Standing Order 36AA (9) be deleted and that the following be inserted in its place: 
A senator, though not a member of a committee, may attend and participate in its deliberations, and question witnesses, unless the Committee orders otherwise, but shall not vote. 
Those words are precisely the same as are provided in Standing Order 36AB ( 10) in relation to Estimates committees. I would like to hear the views of other honourable senators on that particular matter before formally moving that proposition. 
I seek leave of the Committee to refer very briefly back to paragraph 3 of item 1 which deals with the matter of research officers being under the direction of the respective committees and their chairmen. 
Leave granted. 
Item  1-  Estimates Committees: Staffing Arrangements 
Earlier in the evening I invited the  President  or someone elseobviously it would be the  President-  to respond to a suggestion I made that the research facilities and officers of the committees should be available directly to individual senators. The only response thus far to that suggestion has been from  Senator Walters  who questioned whether that was appropriate and suggested that an individual senator should not use the research facilities or research officers of the committees to be provided with secret information. There is no question of secrecy at all. We are dealing with accountability of public funds. The public is entitled to know the full facts of the position. As I mentioned in my invitation, most of the work of the Estimates committees is involved in dealing with whether or not the Estimates are appropriate for the efficient implementation of the policy objectives in relation to which the Estimates have been submitted. 
However, there are certain sensitive policy areas in relation to which the Minister or the public servants may not be forthcoming. Let me state publicly that most of the public servants who have appeared before Estimates committees have been thoroughly open and objective and have responded to questioning, but on a number of occasions after questioning public servants I have found with hindsight that I have been fishing in the wrong pool. Neither the Minister nor the public servants have advised me that I have been fishing in the wrong pool. Honourable senators may say that that is my bad luck. However, that is the very reason I make the suggestion that individual senators should have the research facilities available to them, namely, so that on these politically sensitive matters they can present their questions in a manner which will elicit the information which is required. I feci that that is essential in order to ensure that the senators are able to deal with these matters effectively and to elicit the full information which is required to ensure proper accountability of public funds. 
May I have an explanation of the proposals that are being put before the Senate? From the previous motion moved by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  I understand that I have just been discharged from the Library Committee. Is that correct? 
I enter this debate to express the view that it should have been maintained on a level which is appropriate to the legislation. The legislation is designed to establish a realistic situation which is consistent with the present Government's foreign policy. However, some segments of the debate have degenerated into unwarranted and  indiscriminate attacks upon a large number of Australian citizens of Croatian origin. It is for that reason that I enter the debate in order to stand here and to protect those citizens from the type of unwarranted and indiscriminate attacks that have been launched upon them, not only in certain aspects of this debate, but also on the last occasion when this matter was debated in this place in, I think, May of this year. 
I have a wide circle of friends who are Yugoslavian- Slovenes and Croatians. It is not for me to enter into- nor do I desire to enter into- deep discussion or to take sides on any questions of difference, but I know that most of the Croatians to whom I have spoken feel deeply about the unwarranted attacks that are launched against them under the privilege of Parliament. We have had examples of those attacks in the Senate and outside this place. We have had suggestions and innuendoes that the bombs that have been placed have been the work of the Croatian people. I accept what  Senator Sibraa  said, that he is not drawing that inference. Incidentally, I must congratulate  Senator Sibraa  on his return to this place.  His  contributions in most cases are well worth listening to. All honourable senators know that during the hysteria whipped up by former Attorney-General Lionel Murphy there was some suggestion about a bombing in a Sydney car park. What happened in that case? The Croatian people were convicted without trial. Indeed, the person who eventually stood trial for that act had a peculiarly un-Croatian name. In fact an Australian-born Australian was convicted for that offence. 
I do not accept what  Senator O  'Byrne has said. I shall not waste the time of the Senate in detailing the historical factors which would deny what he said. This was done in great detail by the late  Senator Ivor  Greenwood in a more intelligent and reasoned way than I would be able to do it. I want to use this opportunity to refer to some things that are said. It is asked: Why do the Croatian people not realise that they are in Australia and forget where they came from and be Australian citizens? I have in my hand a letter that was written to me- and presumably to all senators and members of the House of Representatives- from the Slovenian-Australian Association of Canberra. That letter deals with dual citizenship. It states: 
The Yugoslav regime has implemented the law by which every citizen of Yugoslavia is forced to retain his or her citizenship whether or not he or she obtains a citizenship of another country. Furthermore, the clause extends over children of the first generation who are not even born in 
Yugoslavia. In practical terms, this means that it is impossible for an immigrant from Yugoslavia or his children to renounce their Yugoslav citizenship despite the fact that they become Australian citizens. 
This claim by the Yugoslav regime gives its embassies abroad, and in particular Australia, an outstanding power to control, through intimidation and harassment, their former citizens should these citizens ever require a visa to visit their friends and relatives in their homeland. It is particularly effective for Consular authorities to intimidate those individuals and groups who are, or would wish to be, vocal against the political regime in their homeland. The article in Attachment (A) reveals only a bleak picture of what is happening in reality. It is the Yugoslav regime 's stated policy, quote: to secure access to the top offices in these organisations (clubs and associations formed by citizens of all parts of Yugoslavia) for members of all our nations and nationalities and a policy of mutual ties with other forms of organisation of our citizens according to the principles of Yugoslav community.' (Speech delivered by Stane Dolanc at the meeting of the Presidency of the Socialist Alliance of Working People of Yugoslavia on 14 October 1976 as reported in the Review of International Affairs No. 638 of 5 November 1976.) He also stated, quote: 
The problems involved in the organisation of social clubs are being dealt with in the course of their regular activities by the Socialist Alliance, trade unions and other socio-political and social organisations and are an area for their permanent cooperation with progressive parties and other organisations or trade unions in the countries in which our workers are employed '. 
The letter from the Slovenian-Australian Association of Canberra continues: 
It is no wonder that our national clubs in Sydney and Wollongong have been taken over and that our free news media in Australia is gradually becoming the instrument for Yugoslav communist propaganda. Where they have been unsuccessful, as for example in Canberra, they have established their own parallel organisation with the purpose of eventually taking over other free-thinking establishments, as for example, our own organisation . . . 
This formidable success in takeovers of groups and individuals by Yugoslav agents was made possible only because Yugoslavia can still claim citizenship over its dissidents. The fact that it is impossible to obtain a cancellation of Yugoslav citizenship is well-illustrated by correspondence in Attachment (C) by Martin and Barker, Solicitors, who have been trying, since September 1 976, to find a way of cancelling citizenship for a family living in Canberra. So far, the solicitors have received no reply. 
There are a number of individuals and families who would wish to get rid of their former Yugoslav citizenship should this be made possible. Yet the International Bill of Human Rights, Article IS, states: 
Everyone has the right to a nationality, 
No-one should be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality, nor denied the right to change his nationality. ' 
How ironical to see Belgrade providing haven for the most recent Conference on Human Rights. 
The Australian public has been fed with publications claiming that terrorism among Yugoslav nationalities in Australia has been the product of Croatians and other anticommunist groups but very little has been said about the underground forces of the Yugoslav regime in Australia who are the very cause, and apparently the authors, of such terrorism. It is even more disturbing to see the Australian 
Government acting indifferently, or worse still, determined to retain its good relations with the Yugoslav regime, despite the fact that it has been well-informed about Yugoslav secret police activities in Australia, as illustrated by the article in Attachment (B). 
I think that all honourable senators will have received this letter. It is not addressed to me personally. It is a roneoed letter. It continues: 
It seems strange that in Australia, where all citizens enjoy their rights to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and have freedom of opinion and expression, and freedom of affiliation, that citizens of Yugoslav origins have their rights interfered with by the Consular officials of another country. 
What is most astonishing, is to find Australian citizens of Yugoslav origins who have re-entered, through visa, their homeland undergoing police examinations and being harrassed by the Yugoslav secret police, being imprisoned, and some of them even executed, whilst the Australian Government looked the other way. 
Apropos of that subject I wonder whether the Australian Government or anyone interested has done anything about a recent report in the  Canberra Times  of 14 July 1978. It is headed Canberra man tells of years in Yugoslav jail'. The article states: 

 Mr Marko Nazor, 3 1 , of Downer, who returned to his family in Australia this month after three years in a Yugoslav jail, said yesterday that he had been subjected to psychological torture and threatened with the death of his wife and three children while a political prisoner. 
Psychological torture had occurred both before his trial in 1973 and during his term in Lepoglava Prison, at Split, on the Dalmatian coast. 
Here is the significant point: 
The only charge on which the Yugoslav authorities had been able to convict him was that he was a member of the Australian Croatian Club, O'Connor, which he said was a social club with no political overtones. 
I am simply informing the Senate of this matter. I do not know the case. I do not know the man from a bar of soap. I found the article in the  Canberra Times.  It continues: 
Before his holiday visit to Yugoslavia in 197S, he had taken part in some demonstrations in Australia against the Yugoslav Government, but had not thought his protests here had been active enough to incur the wrath of the Yugoslav authorities. 
Therefore he had not bothered to apply through the Yugoslav Embassy in Australia for an 'amnesty' for his visit to Yugoslavia, which should have guaranteed his safe exist from the country. 
He had been roused from his bed at 3 a.m. in June, 1975, the house had been 'turned upside down' while secret and uniformed police had searched it and had been told that 'he had just returned from Australia so his political views would be against the State'. 
He had been taken from his family's home and imprisoned and been subjected to periods of interrogation lasting anything from eight to 16 hours before being put on trial in October. 

 Mr Nazor, who for most of the press conference spoke through an interpreter, Miss Dinko Sidic, said a number of other 'trumped-up charges, including bringing explosives into Yugoslavia to blow up bridges' had been levelled at him. He had been threatened that unless he admitted the charge of membership of the Australian Croatian Club - 
Honourable senators should listen to this point; 
. witnesses would be brought forward to incriminate him on other charges. 
Yugoslavia-bom  Mr Nazor  is an Australian citizen and he will resume his trade as a panelbeater. 
This is an example of an Australian citizen who was gaoled in a foreign country for an act committed in Australia, the act being that he was a member of the Australian Croatian Club in O'Connor in this city. I ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  to take cognisance of this situation and make some investigation of it. 
I remind the Senate of the damage that was done to the Croatian community during the regime of  Senator Murphy  as Attorney-General. Honourable senators will recall that on 27 March 1973  Senator Murphy  tabled in the Senate a vast number of documents relating to Croatians- all within the context of the then Government's attempt to search for alleged Croatian terrorists. Honourable senators should bear in mind that it was the former Attorney-General who tabled those documents. On  This Day Tonight  on 27 March 1973 Richard Carleton said that the documents comprised 2,000-odd pages. He said that they would be fingered through by everyone interested. They were publicly available. There were 72 departmental documents amongst this total. Twenty-seven of those documents were previously classified as secret. They originated from places such as the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Commonwealth Police. Among the 2,000 pages of documents there were references to no fewer than 715 Croatians resident in Victoria and 142 Croatians from the other States. The whole context of the documents and the references to these 857 people meant that if they or their relatives ever returned to Yugoslavia for a holiday they might be accused of all kinds of so-called crimes. 
Here is a situation in point. A person went to Yugoslavia and was convicted for an offence committed in Australia, that offence being that he was a member of the Australian Croatian Club. That is how it is reported in the  Canberra Times.  The document I have from the SlovenianAustralian Association summarises the situation. I think it is important for us to bear these things in mind if we are to treat all our citizens equally and if all citizens are to have equal status before the law and not be subject to  initimidation  by foreign agents or by innuendo from other citizens  of Australia. The summary of the document states: 
Members of our community are deeply concerned that they have been discriminated against as Australian citizens, in Australia and when abroad, by the simple fact that they find it impossible to free themselves of being citizens of the Yugoslav regime. They are also concerned that this very fact gives the Yugoslav Consular authorities in Australia power to haunt its dissidents beyond their terrestrial life, since this claim of citizenship extends beyond them to their children. They are concerned of course to see the Australian Government so indifferent when its citizens are being harassed by foreign powers in Australia, imprisoned by a foreign power abroad and even executed by a foreign power abroad. 
Concern is also expressed over Article 44 of the Constitution - 
That is our Constitution- 
. which lends itself to discrimination against those citizens who involuntarily bear dual citizenship. 
That is not confined only to the Yugoslav situation. The last appeal is: 
We therefore ask the Conference to request the Government to extend its political protection to all its citizens on an equal basis at home and abroad. 
We also ask that Slovenes in Australia receive at least as much recognition about their national identity as they have enjoyed for centuries in their homeland. 
I simply raise those matters for consideration by the Attorney-General and by others in authority in the Government, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and his Department, so that the principles of equality will be maintained within this country. 
I raise a very important matter and I will detain the Senate for only a very short time. I refer to a matter of taxation. Earlier this week I was told by a Sydney union source that a letter dated 14 June 1978 on the letterhead of the Shop Distributive and Allied Employees Association and signed by B. T. Egan was sent to the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in New South Wales. The letter requested the Commissioner of Taxation to disallow payments made as union contributions by members of the New South Wales Branch of the Shop Distributive and Allied Employees Association. The letter purported to have been signed by  Mr B.  T. Egan in  Mr Egan's  capacity as National Secretary-Treasurer of the Shop Distributive and Allied Employees Association. Of course all payments made by members ofthe New South Wales branch of the Shop Distributive and Allied Employees Association to the Association are allowable deductions and should be claimed as such. Sub-section 3 of section 73 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1 936 as amended provides for an allowable deduction for income tax purposes for: 
. periodical subscriptions - 
I leave out the unimportant words-  paid by the taxpayer in the year of income in respect of his membership of any trade business or professional association - 
Presumably acting on the basis ofthe letter bearing  Mr Egan's  name and title, the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation in New South Wales has disallowed claims for union contributions paid to the Association and possibly in excess of 20,000 incorrect assessments have been made. The SDA first learned of the existence of the letter bearing  Mr Egan's  name and title this week. The Commissioner of Taxation and his  deputy  were approached and the facts were drawn to their attention. As a result the Taxation Office in New South Wales today immediately withdrew the direction previously issued to assessors to disallow claims of SDA members and payments of contributions made to the SDA will now be treated as allowable deductions. 
In addition any SDA member who has been assessed for tax upon the basis of  Mr Egan's  letter will have his or her assessment amended if the SDA provides the Taxation Office with the member's name, address and taxation file number. A Taxation Office spokesman has advised that the Taxation Office does not have the facilities to identify each of the persons to whom an incorrect assessment has already been issued but has undertaken that if the SDA supplies this information all assessments already made will be amended. Further assessments will be made on the correct basis, namely, that contributions paid to the SDA are allowable deductions. I want to know whether  Mr Egan  wrote and sent the letter dated 14 June 1978 which led to about 20,000 New South Wales shop assistants being assessed to tax which they were not obliged to pay. If he did, his action will be condemned by every trade union official in Australia as petty, vindictive, disgraceful and contemptible. If  Mr Egan  did not write that letter he should publicly say so immediately and the Commonwealth Police should be asked to investigate who used  Mr Egan's  name, title and stationery to hoax the Taxation Office into issuing incorrect taxation assessments to tens of thousands of New South Wales shop assistants. I invite any member of the Senate who have heretofore stood in this Senate and tried to defend  Mr Egan  to do so now. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, follows an answer she gave earlier during Question Time to the effect that there was a good deal of confusion about the Budget proposals for income testing of the family allowance and that a review of the legislation in relation to the family allowance was being undertaken to ensure the elimination of any unintended consequences of the Budget proposal. Was it intended by the Government, when it introduced the Budget, that family allowances would be income tested on the basis of income derived from the personal exertions of children? If so, will the Minister now give an unqualified assurance to the people of Australia that family allowances will not be income tested on the basis of income derived from the personal exertions of children? If the Minister cannot now give that assurance to the people of Australia, can she provide a break-up of the $90m referred to at page 86 of the Budget Papers as being a saving due to the new family allowance arrangements? 
I did not intend to speak in the debate on the Loan Bill, but I was encouraged to do so more than anything else by the address we have just heard from  Senator McAuIiffe.  If my remarks give the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  a little extra time to answer that important question posed by  Senator McAuIiffe  a moment ago- it was also put by  Mr Kevin  Cairns in the House of Representatives- I feel that I will be doing my bit for a little open government. I for one do not like giving anyone a blank cheque. In this case, the Parliament appears to be asked by the Government to sign a blank cheque without all of the appropriate figures being tabled for us. The Government is hanging that, as is traditional, I admit, on the constitutional defence powers. I will deal with this matter later in my reply to the Budget Speech. I state in passing that I deplore the fact that, expressed as a proportion of total Budget outlays, expenditure on defence this year is reduced from the expenditure last year, which in turn was reduced from the expenditure for the year before. In a situation of grave uncertainty in this part of the world, and indeed world wide, it is most disconcerting to see the Government reducing the defence outlay as a proportion of the total Budget outlays. 
I support the amendment that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  which seeks to add at the end of the motion:  but the Senate is of the opinion that the Bill is inadequate because it makes no provision for the under-estimating of the deficit which is likely to follow from the understating of unemployment benefit and health payments, over-estimating of receipts from personal income tax and customs duty, and other inadequacies in the Budget forecasts. 
Those matters have been dealt with by  Senator Wriedt  and in the redoubtable speech made by  Senator McAuIiffe,  whose act is always very hard to follow. I wish to speak only to that part of the amendment which states: 'and other inadequacies in the Budget forecasts'. The Senate will recall that over a period of days attempts have been made to obtain from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  details of the break-up of the $90m saving which was mentioned on page 86 of the Budget Paper No. 1 as resulting from the new family allowance arrangements. I give credit to  Senator Guilfoyle  for being very straightforward in her answers in respect of the Government's review of this matter. But I point out to the Senate that this legislation was introduced into the House of Representatives before the announcement by the Government of its review of the family allowance arrangements and its statement that to test eligibility for family allowances on the basis of income derived from the personal exertion of children would be an unintended consequence of the Budget proposals. The words used by the Government were that the result was an unintended consequence of the Budget proposals. If the words 'unintended consequence' mean that there is to be an adjustment of the results in the outlays for social security payments and family allowance payments, there seems to be no amendment at all to this Bill. A relatively small figure would be involved. Let me detail the position to the Senate because apparently the Treasurer is unable to do so. I will tell honourable senators what I have come up with. As my bank account would show that I am no expert on money matters, but I put it forward as a matter of some interest. 
On page 86 of Budget Paper No. 1 it is stated that a number of changes will be made to the family allowance scheme. A test will be placed on the income of children. Parents will not be eligible for a family allowance in respect of children receiving student allowances under the tertiary education assistance scheme and other educational scholarships. The changes also exclude invalid pensioners and persons living abroad from receiving family allowances. It is stated: 
Outlays are estimated to decrease from $ 1,038.1m in 1977-78 to $948. 2m in 1978-79 due to the changes detailed above. 
That is to say, there is a saving of about $90m or, in point of fact, $89. 9m. We are told that the income test is to operate from 1 January 1 979. At page 62 of the same document we are told that TEAS and other education scholarship recipients would be excluded also from 1 January 1979. The Budget document states: 
In recognition of this change, however, TEAS allowances for dependent students and certain other student allowances are to be increased by the equivalent of $5.25 a week. 
According to my calculations, having regard to the table contained on page 62, an extra $2 1.6m is allocated for the TEAS and other schemes. So from where will the $89.9m saving come? We can subtract the TEAS adjustment of $2 1.7m which I have just mentioned as representing what the students will lose under the family allowance scheme and what they will be compensated for through the increased TEAS and other payments. That leaves $68.3m. 
I have been searching for the past two weeks to discover the break-up of the $89.9m. Some of my questions- and  Senator Sibraa  asked a question on this subject today- have been directed towards that end. Certainly this is the point of a question I asked in the Senate on 22 August. I do not believe that the removal of the pension entitlements of invalid pensioners and pensioners living abroad will make much of a dent in the remaining $68. 3m. 1 have been informed that these categories would account for only about $10m. 
I have been told that last year contained one more pay period and that this year will contain one less pay period and that that will account for $20m. That leaves approximately $38.3m to cover the now-to-be-revised income test scheme. As a matter of fact,  Senator Guilfoyle  in answer to my question on 22 August mentioned a figure of $3 7m to $3 8m. However, the Government keeps insisting that the income test scheme was to be directed mainly at trusts, income splitting arrangements and so on and that any other consequences would be unintended. Let us say that the $3 7m was intended to be involved in savings for a half year- and mind you it is only half a year because the scheme will come in only from 1 January 1979. During the last financial year $ 1,038m was spent on family allowances. As at 30 June 1978 payments were made for 4.3 million children. This represents an average payment for a full year of $24 1 . 1 repeat that the new income test arrangements are to operate from 1 January 1979. 
If we halve that $241 we come up with an average half year payment of $120. If we then divide the $120 into the $37m saving for this particular section of the new scheme we find that a minimum of 300,000 children would have been affected. I say a minimum because the average calculations are based only on those who would have been excluded totally from receiving the family allowances because they had an income of over $20 a week. But the new scheme was to operate on a sliding scale basis, that is ' reduced at the rate of 25c in the dollar on account of any income in excess of $312 received by the child'. The more likely number of children affected will be over half a million. Does the Senate believe that there are that many children involved in trusts and other income splitting arrangements? Does the Senate really believe that that is the situation? At least three possibilities arise from what I have just said. Either my calculations are incorrect; the scheme was always envisaged to cover more than just those involved in the trusts angle- and so the statement that the test would also apply to income derived from the personal exertion of children was not factual; or that the Government has no clear idea at all of what savings on Budget outlays will result from that scheme however it is amended. 
I know that the Minister might say that in the context of overall Budget outlays which involve a vast amount of money this is not a very significant amount. It is a significant amount. I would not mind having that amount. I make the point that this is one of those other inadequacies referred to by the Leader of the Opposition in his amendment. I rose to detail, as best I can, what I believe to be the inadequacies of the Budget forecast to which I have referred. If inadequacies exist to the extent I have shown one wonders how much is involved in other inadequacies. I have risen this afternoon to ensure that the Senate plays its true role of deep and rigorous scrutiny of expenditures detailed by the Government. I for one do not like to be placed in a position of signing a blank cheque. 
I move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that, in view of the persistent high levels of unemployment, the employment responsibilities of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations should be allocated to a Minister whose sole responsibility is to deal with this subject. 
Notice of this motion was given on 2 1 February 1978. The situation of employment compared on the true basis of month this year to month last year has not improved. In fact it has worsened. With unemployment in Australia this month at the highest level since the Great Depression and with about half the number of unemployed under the age of 2 1 years the Commonwealth 
Government must now surely realise that it should assign to a Minister- a senior Ministerthe sole responsibility of analysing the nature and breaking the back of the structural problems of unemployment that beset Australia. 
The foundation of my resolution is unchallengeable. The most recent evidence of concern in the employment field comes from the Government's own Department of Employment and Industrial Relations which conducted a survey of job prospects in Australia 's major industries over the next 12 to 18 months. The Department of Industrial Relations' manpower programs section in its six-monthly bulletin recently outlined a very bleak forecast for that period of time. The report predicts that employment levels will drop in most sectors including the manufacturing, building and construction and the mining and quarrying sectors. The only bright outlook, according to the report, is for the tertiary and services sectors, but the report expects job levels to increase in these areas only slightly. The report assesses employment trends in major industry groups for the next 12 months to 18 months and job prospects for the same period in commercial, skilled and semi-skilled and lower technical and occupational groups. It is a report that is well worth reading. 
The Department made the comment that the report was mainly a manpower planning tool. An article which appeared in the Hobart  Mercury  on Monday, 14 August 1978 stated: 
It attempted to advise on potential bottlenecks as well as possible soft spots in the labour markets so these weaknesses could be overcome through immigration and retraining. 
The report said there were prospects of a rise of 1 ,000 to 2,000 permanent jobs over the next 18 to 20 months in coal and aluminium mining but this gain might be slightly offset by losses in some other mining areas. 
The report said the outlook for the building and construction industries was bleak following the failure of an expected 2 per cent cut in building finance interest rates to materialise. 
The industry had been severely depressed over the past 1 2 months and both building approvals and commencements had fallen off. 
As well, there was considerable excess capacity in the industry and employment levels were expected to fall even further in 1978-79. 
The article continued: 
Skilled labour shortages, especially in metal and skilled trades sul) existed despite the present depressed economic activity of manufacturing industry but it added that unskilled and inexperienced workers would continue to have difficulty in obtaining jobs and competition for jobs would be very keen. 
I will not relate to the Senate tonight the statistical information that is available to all honourable senators as to the drastic unemployment situation that faces Australia. Honourable senators will realise from an examination of those figures that the drastic situation relates to the structural quality of the unemployment. This is why I respond to the type of statement that emerges from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  every six months- I am sure we are about to have another one- to the effect that we should call a conference and see what we can do about the employment situation. Certainly it is important that people be consulted but the call-a-conference syndrome and platitudes by the Minister about reducing inflation first give little hope to the unemployed who have heard that all before. I am sure that we will hear this again from the Minister within the next two or three months. That the current situation can lead to long term dangers for Australia is now widely recognised not only in the trade union movement and among employer groups but also throughout the community. For example,  Mr George  Polites, the Director-General of the National Employers Consultative Council, whom the Government consults from time to time and whose opinion, of course, on a number of matters is well worth listening to, said: 
If this situation -  that is, the drastic unemployment situation- 
. is allowed to continue for any extended period the economic costs will pale into insignificance compared to the price we will eventually pay in terms of social, economic and political disruption and dislocation. 
Those are the words of the Director-General of the National Employers Consultative Council,  Mr George  Polites, earlier this year. What has the Government done about that situation? The fact that about half of the unemployed are under 2 1 years of age highlights the gravity and structural nature of the problem of unemployment. The sort of political point scoring that goes on from the Government is just not adequate. The Commonwealth Government should ensure, in recognition of the gravity of the problem, that a senior Cabinet Minister has sole responsibility for employment and related matters and authority to devise, in conjunction with his State counterparts, programs to break the back of unemployment. At present employment- together with related matters- in the words of the report of the Norgard Inquiry into the Commonwealth Employment Service, is the poor relation of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations and does not receive the attention it both deserves and needs. 
In times of high unemployment and inflation it is too much to expect one Minister to handle the crucial responsibilities of both employment and industrial relations. The current Minister's dogged but unimpressive performance is witness to that fact. The Prime Minister, in my view- I am putting it to the Senate that it should be the view of the Senate- should relieve the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  of his responsibility in the vital area of industrial relations and transfer this area to an upgraded ministry of industrial relations, business and consumer affairs. This would enable  Mr Street  to concentrate his undoubted capabilities solely on the employment aspects of his portfolio, including associated manpower development, employment programs, labour market research, industrial training and related employment matters. In addition, no one doubts that a flood of serious industrial programs will soon descend on this country requiring better attention than a hard pressed and overworked Minister faced with record unemployment can give. No one doubts that we are at this moment hi the grip of a serious industrial relations problem requiring the minute to minute attention of the Minister. Of course, in a couple of weeks time there will be other industrial problems, not the least of which will be the live sheep export issue which will require the concentrated effort of a busy Minister who has experienced an inability to give his whole attention to the very important problem of unemployment. 
It has been long recognised that insufficient resources and attention have been given to the study of the nature of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, in Australia today. I remind honourable senators that I referred to this fact almost two years ago.  Mr Paul  Kirby, the First Assistant Secretary of the Manpower and Economic Policy Division of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, gave that very warning that there were insufficient resources being devoted to the study and nature of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, in Australia as far back as August 1976 when addressing the first national conference on technical and further education. At that time, in contrast to the usual ministerial verbiage that we have been hearing about beating inflation first,  Mr Kirby,  the First Assistant Secretary of the Manpower and Economic Policy Division, made the sobering comment that youth unemployment 'can be expected to persist in a greater or lesser degree irrespective of economic recovery and improved labour demand'. I think that we should all recognise that for the future of this country that fact is one which deserves the sole concentration of a senior Minister. 
It is not without significance that there is a correlation between the increase in juvenile unemployment since the mid 1960s and the increase in the number of married women entering the work force over the same period. The problem cannot be solved by discriminating against married women in the work force, as some have suggested but rather by implementing the Government's financial measures which will recognise the economic worth of the homemaker and contribute to family support programs, thus reversing the economic discrimination now experienced by single income families. These are the sorts of policies which should be developed and an analysis of the effect they would have on unemployment should be undertaken. But they are not being undertaken. The union to which I belong currently is undertaking a major survey of membership to see what the reaction would be to governmental policies designed to eliminate the discrimination that is currently being experienced by full-time homemakers, to see whether that would be sufficient attraction for women with dependent children to enable them to do their most important work, that is, the nurturing of their children, the future citizens of this country. 
According to previous surveys that were conducted by at least one other union, the majority of married women in the work force are there through economic circumstance, whether socially created want or need. They have been forced into the work force through economic pressures. If the programs I have mentioned were adopted, they would provide a true freedom of choice and the option for those people to leave jobs, thus creating job opportunities for the young. I do not agree with the suggestion that there should be discrimination against married women in the work force. I have fought as a trade union official for equal pay for work of equal value. Indeed I moved the resolution at the critical Australian Council of Trade Unions congress on this particular matter. I believe that there should be a true freedom of choice but not by virtue of the fact that there are not sufficient supportive policies of the Government to provide that true freedom of choice for married women with dependent children, to take the economic pressure off them and to enable them to become full-time homemakers. 
Furthermore, thousands upon thousands of young married women want to leave the work force and start a family, but they cannot do so because of housing finance problems. How many people do we know in the position where the wife 's earnings are going towards the deposit on a home? Once they have borrowed they have to work to maintain the high repayments on the money that has been borrowed. Certainly the call-a-conference syndrome, which we heard earlier this year when I moved that motion and which we will hear in the very near future and have heard recently in the Senate, reflects a need for the permanent consultative body consisting of the States, employers and unions to advise the Minister who is solely responsible for employment and related matters. Certainly this body would play an effective part in advising such a Minister about the problem areas. If that Minister were solely engaged in employment and related matters, he would also be able to look to the future of, say, manufacturing industry, the priorities of that industry and whether it should concentrate on the manufacture of chemicals, heavy engineering equipment or whatever. Together with his senior colleagues, he could give this country some direction, which it does not have today. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
-I move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that the Australian Government's involvement in the 1979 International Year of the Child should pursue, as a major theme for action, the position of the child in the context of the family. 
I do not intend to delay the Senate tonight for any undue length of time. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  is aware of the interest of many members of the Parliament, indeed I assume all members of the Parliament, in the preservation of family life. The Minister would also be aware of the concern of a large number of members of the Parliament about the pressures that are currently on families in today's modern society. I had hoped to have been able to make an address prior to this, but since the motion was put down committees have been established in respect of the International Year of the Child. I draw to the Minister's attention the attitude of European Ministers to the International Year of the Child. A meeting of Ministers responsible for family affairs or their representatives from 1 9 European states was held in Bonn from 7 to 9 September 1977 to discuss ways of promoting the educational role of the family. The discussions concentrated on the particular situation of today's family, the need to stimulate the educational abilities of the family, and the concept of family-related counselling. The participants welcomed the United Nations initiative of proclaiming 1979 to be the International Year of the Child and passed a declaration promising to exchange experiences and to promote programs benefiting children. The declaration said in part: 
The European Ministers hope that this event will stimulate a better understanding of the positions of the child in the social and family context in every country of the world, taking into account the conditions, needs and priorities of each country, and that it will make it possible to develop measures designed to foster the physical, mental and social well-being of all children, and in particular those of the third world. 
The Ministers refuted criticism that had been directed towards the family and particularly towards the education of children within the family context, and I agreed with that. Honourable senators know as well as I do that there is no institution within society which is more capable or better equipped than the family to provide educational or a social welfare and health delivery system. If that were recognised and accepted as a fundamental policy by any government it would ensure the reduction of the expenditure on social security as a proportion of the Budget outlays. A report of the conference of ministers states: 
Although the rapid social changes of recent years have led to questioning the previously undisputed acceptance of existing institutions, there is no doubt that, even today, the family should be considered the basic element of society. The difficulties it must face in today's society have undoubtedly become more serious, and they still increase in number when the image of the family, on the one hand, and the social concepts of life in society, on the other, become divergent. 
In no country, the Ministers found, is there doubt as to the viability and irreplaceable role of the family. Even today's nuclear family assumes tasks which cannot be assumed by other social groups- or, if so, only partially. This applies in particular to children 's education, especially in the first years of life 
On the other hand, stresses within the family due, for instance, to the change from hierarchical family relationships to relationships based on equality of spouses and a greater autonomy of children, or problems in relations between parents and educational institution, or specific educational problems, such as sex education, may be found in all countries. 
The Conference acknowledged that State and society have a duty to assist the family in fulfilling its manifold tasks: however, they believed that, in principle, the State should not challenge the basic rights of parents to educate their children. 
The Ministers gave priority to parents' education and family-related counselling services- particularly parents' education because they believed that preventive measures should be given preference over curative measures. 
I quote that to illustrate the direction that is being taken in the European countries, at least by the European Ministers responsible for family affairs, in relation to the 1979 International Year of the Child. 
In conclusion, I contrast that with a  comment  by the Director of the New South Wales Council of Social Service,  Mrs Eva  Cox, reported in the  Australian Financial Review  on 2 June 1978,  Mrs Cox  made these extraordinary remarks: 
My concern is trying to avoid tying in IYC with such things as the proposed conference in June of the Nursing Mothers Association 's National Breastfeeding Week. 
Here is the extraordinary comment: 
There is a very real danger of giving glorification through IYC to service all sorts of ideological ends. 
That really must take the gong for being the most extraordinary statement from anybody in relation to the International Year of the Child. I am not sure what ideological connotations emerge from breastfeeding. The escapes me. However, that is the type of attitude expressed by the Director of the New South Wales Council of Social Service,  Mrs Eva  Cox, and I draw that to the attention of the Minister and of those who will be dealing with the direction of the International Year of the Child. Many people within the community will be looking to the attitudes of the committees to see whether they are supportive of the child within the family context particularly. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Colston)-  Is the motion seconded? 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that financial grants by the Commonwealth Government or its statutory authorities should not be provided, either directly or indirectly, to those organisations in public health areas the officials of which advocate that abortion is an acceptable or desirable form of  fertility control'. 
It might seem extraordinary that such a motion as this should come before the Senate. It might seem extraordinary to those members of the 
Senate who think about the matter that family planning associations should have anything to do with abortions. After all, the attitude of some family planning associations that abortion is an acceptable or desirable form of fertility control really condemns those family planning associations for the fact that they are not doing the job for which they were established. Nevertheless, there are a number of family planning associations in the various States that receive substantial financial assistance from the Commonwealth Government. In 1976-77 grants totalling $514,264 were approved by the then Occupational and Social Health Projects Branch of the Department of Health for disbursement to the Australian Federation of Family Planning Associations and the Melbourne Action Centre. In 1977-78, the grants totalled $525,364, including - and I want to emphasise this-$ 149,095 for the New South Wales Family Planning Association. 
Those members of Estimates Committee D will remember that last year I asked questions of officials of the Department of Health about the attitude of family planning associations to abortions. At my first attempt to obtain information I did not receive a direct reply. Later, one of the officials of the Department of Health replied- and this is to be found on page 132 of the  Hansard  of Estimates Committee D: 
If the question is: Are some of the institutions funded by the Commonwealth, either now or in the past, recommending abortion, I think the answer would be yes. 
In reply to another honourable senator, the officials stated that family planning associations did not offer facilities to perform abortions, but that they did offer advice on abortion. Therefore there is not very much dispute about the fact that some family planning associations offer advice about abortion in the context of family planning. 
The major objective of this motion is to draw the attention of the Senate, and indeed of the people of Australia, to the development of an attitude in some family planning associations, that attitude being that abortion is an acceptable and indeed a safe method of birth control, fertility control or even of conception. The development of this attitude within government-funded family planning associations is something which raises the question of continued funding of these bodies if there has been a change from their policies when the grants were first initiated. I suspect that that is what has occurred; that since first they tapped the Health money pipeline, there has been this change in attitude in some cases towards the policy that abortion is an acceptable and/or safe form of birth control or fertility control. As I have mentioned previously, to me, a family planning association which advocates abortion as an acceptable form of fertility control is a damning indictment of its own effectiveness. 
There are some family planning associations which have recognised the danger of being caught up in this new approach. The Family Planning Association of Tasmania is one such organisation which recognises the danger of being caught up in this new approach. It has a specific policy and this policy appears at page 487 of  Hansard  covering the supplementary information supplied to the Estimates Committee last year. Objective No. 2 of the Association is: 
To relieve poverty, to prevent ill-health in the special field of family life and to reduce the incidence of abortion. 
I ask honourable senators to contrast this with the views of people associated with the New South Wales Family Planning Association who appear to be adopting an attitude which is heading in a different direction altogether. I refer firstly to the comment by Professor Charles Kerr on 7 February 1978, soon after his election to the post of  President  of the Family Planning Association of New South Wales. An interview in which Professor Kerr was asked his attitude on abortion was conducted over the Australian Broadcasting Commission television news at 7 p.m. on Tuesday, 7 February 1978. The interviewer asked: 
What 's your attitude to abortion? 
Professor Charles Kerr responded: 
Abortion is accepted. It's legally accepted as a means of fertility control; just one option available to women in this State and its fitted into the health system and the medical system. And the Association- if there comes a person who may require an abortion it would proceed in the normal channels, just like doctors doing work anywhere else. 
I do not know quite what Professor Kerr means by 'it would proceed in the normal channels'. I am not ignorant of the fact that Professor Kerr also has a long association with the Preterm Abortion Clinic in Sydney. 
But another official of the New South Wales Family Planning Association has gone further. The New South Wales Director of the Family Planning Association, Judy McLean, was interviewed on the ABC  Broadband  program in March 1977. At that time she stated: 
. the information we are gathering now on abortion seems to be pointing that this is a very safe method of birth control. If it was done for instance like Family Planning Clinics that are dotted right throughout the metropolitan area the cost of it would go down and it would be a feasible method of birth control . . . 
I do not have a specific date for that program but I do have the transcript of it here. I am not unaware of the fact that shortly after I raised that matter in the Senate Estimates Committee hearing, the Australian Federation of Family Planning Associations, at its annual general meeting declared: 
This Federation dissociates itself from statements such as abortion is a very safe method of fertility control '. 
The Government might reply by saying: 'We certainly provide money to the Australian Federation of Family Planning Associations and they redistribute it to family planning associations'. It is up to the Australian Federation of Family Planning Associations to apply its own policy to its constituent bodies. But what if it does not apply those policies to its constituent bodies? The Government cannot then turn its back on the attitudes of organisations which indirectly exist mainly on the basis of government funding. That is the situation of the family planning associations. It is taxpayers ' money about which we are talking. If the Senate passes this motion then it will serve notice on the family planning associations that they can continue to receive public moneys, that is government grants, for legitimate activity in the family planning area but once they cross the line and become merely abortion referral agencies under the guise of family planning, they will receive no further support. 
I do not believe one person in the Senate or in the whole Parliament would be prepared to argue that abortion is a very safe method of birth control. It is certainly not safe for the unborn baby. If there is anyone here who supports that argument I would be interested to hear him or her say so publicly. But let us not forget that that argument is advanced by the director of the New South Wales Family Planning Association which receives massive financial support from the taxpayers' pockets, that is from the Government. I believe the Senate would be failing in its duty if it did not rigorously scrutinise the situation as to whether any of these funds are going towards the implementation of that sort of attitude and that sort of policy. I place these matters before the Senate and I have raised them before Senate Estimates committees. I believe that if this motion is passed by the Senate it will go a long way to ensuring that family planning associations do the job for which they were established and that they do not engage in acting as referral agencies for abortions. I know that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has listened to the comments which I have made. I commend them to her. 
I feel obliged to rise and to make a comment about a matter that was discussed with the leave of the Senate this morning by  Senator Wriedt  and during the adjournment debate tonight by  Senator Rae  and again by  Senator Wriedt.  I am sorry that this matter has been blown out of all proportion- and that is what has happened. The matter has just blown up out of all proportion over virtually nothing. I have a transcript of comments, were made on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program  A.M.  on the last three mornings. It is perfectly clear that the blow-up has occurred because of inferences through a play on words, not by the people who were interviewed but by the interviewers. They were inferences to which  Senator Wriedt  felt obliged to respond. Indeed, he made the point today:  on the  A.M.  program of Tuesday morning it was implied that I was involved in a committee to initiate moves against the Moscow Olympic Games. 
An examination of the  A.M.  program of Tuesday reveals that the implication was not made by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr 
Hodgman). The honourable member can defend himself, and possibly  Senator Wriedt  was referring - 
This is the question of the committee. If I refer to  Senator Wriedt  's comment - 
Yes, I will come to that point in a minute. Let me tell the Senate why I think this matter has been blown up out of all proportions. I in fact was on the stage at the time and I did hear  Mrs Kroll-Simmul  say to the  chairman  that  Senator Wriedt  was voting for the resolution and that it was unanimous. I did not see what  Senator Wriedt  did, but I did hear her say that. 
The first resolution. I do not want to enter into the blow-up. The honourable member for Denison can defend himself. It may well be that  Senator Wriedt,  the Leader of the Opposition, was referring, the honourable member for Denison 's undoubted prowess as a horse rider or broadcaster of show jumping- I do not know which. But, as I said, I believe that this matter has been blown up out of all proportion. I know that  Mrs Kroll-Simmu  was elated in the belief that  Senator Wriedt  did vote for the motion. That is all I can say - 
No, she told it to me. As  Senator Wriedt  will appreciate, she is a very intelligent person who over the years has been involved in monitoring of human rights following the Helsinki Accords. Obviously public confusion has come about subsequent to that event. I can only say that I am sorry that the confusion has come about. It appears to be a confusion between the committee that was established in Hobart and the committee of all parliamentarians that has been established. Speaking from the point of view of the committee in Hobart, I can only regret that premature publicity has been initiated. 
Would the honourable senator please listen to what I am saying. I can say only, and the person concerned knows, that I am sorry that there was confusion. To be fair to him as well, the confusion was not necessarily on his pan. The confusion results from the way the matter was handled on  AM.  I return to the point made earlier. The decisions that were taken were quite important and serious decisions.  Senator Wriedt  detailed his belief that a boycott of the Moscow Olympic Games would not be in the interests of the resolution of the human rights question in the Soviet Union. 
Yes. 
Certainly. What disturbs me about  Senator Wriedt  's statement is the fact that there was some political point scoring. I think he would agree that the political point scoring was not from any of the members of the Associations that convened the meeting but by a State politician. 
I am sorry. 
Is it in here? 
The point I am making is that it would be regrettable if we lost sight of those parts of the resolution which can be put forward in a vigorous and effective manner because of a blow-up that has subsequently taken place. I refer, for example, to the second resolution which resolved that the committee- that is the Tasmanian Committee- write to the Government seeking its assurance that in the interests of democracy and of the suffering people concerned, it effectively raise at the United Nations and the International Labour Organisation on the human rights committee the systematic suppression of human rights by the communist regimes in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union and the foreign domination and alien subjugation by the Soviet Union of the Baltic States. That is the second resolution. So far as the first resolution is concerned, I would point out that the Tasmanian group is different from the group which was formed in this Parliament on Tuesday. Presumably the group that was formed in the Parliament on Tuesday has the same general thrust, that is to say, to work to ensure that there are no Moscow Games without human rights. 
In response, may I say that it is regrettable that  Senator Sibraa  and  Senator Tate  did not receive invitations. In fact I knew nothing about the development of such a committee until I arrived back from Sydney and the meeting had taken place. 
It is not a Liberal Party committee because I understand that there were members - 
That is most regrettable. I emphasise the point that I had nothing to do with convening the meeting. I received an invitation. I know that at least one member of the Labor Party in the House of Representatives received an invitation because I am told that he apologised for not attending. I agree that these things ought to be done in a properly coordinated manner. The next time a meeting is convened I will certainly be making the points that  Senator Sibraa  and  Senator Tate  have made. In conclusion, I would like to point out to the Senate that there is a very real opportunity available to the people in this country and the people in the democracies of the world which will not be available in the foreseeable future. That occasion is the Olympic Games. It is often said that politics should not be introduced into sport. That has not applied so far as South Africa is concerned and quite rightly. The Soviet Union is already bringing politics into sport. The Moscow Olympic Games will be used by the Soviet Union as a status symbol. 
The honourable senator cannot compare repression in the Soviet Union with the situation in Queensland. The question is not one of dissenting from the criminal code. The situation in the Soviet Union is simply that there is complete totalitarian control by the State over the people and the denial of human rights in the Soviet Union is systematic to the communist system there and indeed in any communist system. 
I am interested in the comment that has been made by  Senator McLaren.  He says: 'It is their country. Why do we have to be concerned about it?' I am a member of the human race. That is a most extraordinary statement to come from a member of the human race. In the Soviet Union a system which denies fundamental human freedoms, the freedom of thought, the freedom of speech, the freedom of religion, the freedom of association - 
What is the international trade union movement for?  Senator McLaren  should not claim to be a Labor man if he says that what happens to another human being is not our interest. 
I answered the interjection. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and refer to an article in the Sunday  Independent  of 27 August 1978 over which appears the heading, 'Red spy plane flies over the coast of Western Australia'. The article states: 
This official photograph of a Russian TU9S long range strategic bomber cruising off WA's coast was released this week by the United States Defense Department. 
Will the Minister advise the Senate when the photograph was taken, how far off the Western Australian coast the bomber was cruising and what was the base from which the bomber was operating? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, deals with the means testing of family allowances. I ask the Minister whether she recalls my question of 22 August this year in which I asked:  . . Will the Minister now give an unqualified assurance to the people of Australia that family allowances will not be income tested on the basis of income derived from the personal exertions of children? 
I also ask the Minister whether she recalls her clear words to the Senate as follows: 
I am able to answer  Senator Harradine  by saying that it is intended that personal exertion income achieved by children will not be subjected to the means test. 
She went on: 
I undertake to make a public statement as soon as possible on the income that will be subjected to the means test. It will not include personal exertion income. 
Is it a fact that just prior to lunch the Minister held a Press conference at which she indicated that subject to an increased threshold, income derived from the personal exertion of children will be subject to a means test? If so, how can she reconcile that statement with the undertaking given to the Senate less than one month ago? 
September 1978 will go down in history as the month of truth for the Fraser Government. The first week of this three-week sitting began with the recognition by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  of the grave situation that Australia faces concerning unemployment. On 14 September 1978, in the Parliament,  Mr Street  said: 
By the early 1980s the situation - 
That is, the employment situation-  could be one where, in addition to the problem of 15 to 19 year olds being unemployed, there will be a growing proportion of people in their early 20s who will have little work experience or prospects of employment. In other words, the social problem could significantly increase. If this situation develops, as it has in a number of other countries, there will be real dangers to the fabric of our society. 
This last week of this three-week sitting has been the period in which the Government has recognised that to undermine an allowance such as the family allowance, even by the suggestion of means testing a mother's family allowance by taking into account the income derived from the personal exertion of children, is an attack on a fundamental institution which, rather than being undermined, needs support to overcome the very problem with which this country is faced- the unemployment problem. Today  Mr Street,  in answer to a question in the other place, said that much of the attack on the Government over the last few weeks has simply been political pointscoring by the Australian Labor Party. Some of that may be true. But I am not concerned with political point-scoring so far as the Government is concerned. I am concerned with endeavouring to analyse the problems and overcoming them. I am more concerned because during the recent recess I had the opportunity of addressing over 32 factory and shop meetings, of hearing what the working people of Australia are talking about and are concerned about. Most of those people would be doing something more useful than listening to the debates in this place, but they do expect us to apply our minds to the problems that have beset Australia both internally and externally and they do expect the Government to take its fair share of responsibility for ensuring that these problems are overcome. I was pleased to see that  Mr Street,  in his speech on 14 September, said: 
There will also need to be a willingness on the part of everyone to be receptive to new ideas. 

 Senator Scott pleaded in his address this afternoon that we should not become partisan over this issue. I agree with him. It is my task tonight, with the experience of those meetings behind me and with, I suggest, the experience of the people with whom I still have close contact, the people with whom I have had close contact both in the union sphere and in the employer sphere over a period of 18 years, to make suggestions which I hope the Government will take account of and act quickly to put into effect. 
What is the nature of the employment problem that is facing Australia? Simply stated it is that the labour market is over-expanded at a time when the rate of new job creation has been slashed by technological change. That is the problem. It is therefore not only an economic problem but a social problem as well. Why has the labour market become over-expanded? For years this country and countries of similar development have been able to provide full time jobs for 39 per cent of the population. Why is it that 45 per cent of the population of Australia is now seeking employment? The answer lies not only in the economic downturn but also in the fact that between 1963 and 1975 in particular extraordinary pressures were exerted on the mothers of Australia to go out of their homes and into the paid work force. Only 23 per cent of the mothers of Australia were employed in the paid work force in 1 963. That figure is now well over 40 per cent. There is almost a direct correlation between that increase and the increased juvenile unemployment that exists today. 
Let me be the first to state quite unequivocalbly that there should not be discrimination against married women in the work force. As I have mentioned in this place previously, I, as a trade union official, was in the forefront of obtaining equal pay for work of equal value. Indeed, I moved the motion on equal pay for work of equal value at the crucial Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress when the communists and the radical feminists were trying to exert pressure to get equal pay for equal work. That would have meant that women would have had to work under the same conditions, lifting the same weights and working in the same dirt as men, to get equal pay. That would have been a travesty of justice. But at the same time in Australia today there is not that true freedom of choice; economic discrimination is experienced by the mothers who stay at home and do the most important job, that is, raising the future citizens of this country. 
Why do I say that there is economic discrimination? First of all, let me remind the Senate of the slogans that appeared in the mid 1960s to 1975. Do honourable senators recall the slogans that were published by the department responsible for labour? They were headed 'Mothers' Liberation ' and urged mothers to leave the home and become part of the paid work force. That pressure was applied by the governments of the day and by the employers in order to recruit mothers into the work force as a source of cheap labour. That occurred before the principle of equal pay for work of equal value was finally adopted. But the rot had set in. Mothers' liberation indeed! A famous Frenchman said recently that liberation of women is freedom to choose between managing their homes and working in an office or factory. Which is the most dignified job? 
That is the problem in our so-called Christian society. Motherhood is being denigrated. It is not recognised for the status that it is worth. Even the economic contribution of the mother who stays at home is not included in the gross domestic product figures of Australia. All sorts of taxation and other pressures are applied on a mother to go out and become part of the paid work force. I submit that I am not alone in finally recognising that this is part of the problem. The Minister for 
Employment and Industrial Relations in his speech on 14 September recognised that the influx of married women seeking employment which was to some extent linked with the high level of migrant intake has been a factor of the labour supply from the 1950s onwards. The mothers who stay at home are discriminated against. The Government's response to that situation has always been to say: 'Well, in 1976 we instituted the family allowance scheme which provided substantial increases in family allowances. ' 
As  Senator Martin  pointed out in her speech last week, the family allowance scheme was simply a trade-off for the loss of tax rebate and child endowment scheme. In fact in the year in which family allowances replaced the tax rebate and child endowment scheme, it was estimated that the new system of family allowances would cost an additional $785m a year but that that amount would be balanced by the wiping out of the tax rebate and child endowment scheme. This fact is shown in statistics that have been prepared by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library statistical service. I would like to have incorporated in  Hansard  a comparison between the tax rebate and child endowment scheme and the family allowance scheme. Even under the old scheme which was inadequate and when the child endowment had not been indexed, a family with six children would have been $7.43 a week better off than under the new family allowance scheme. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="078232197809275_38_0.jpg"></graphic>

Thus I was very surprised when, during the parliamentary recess, the Leader of Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  and  Senator Grimes  suggested that the Government intended to income test or tax family allowances. I was concerned that this would be a furphy and that it was a smokescreen to cover up the Government's failure to index family allowances. My attitude was re-inforced because when that furphy was first published a sufficient number of honourable senators told me that it would not hit the deck when it got to the Senate. As I knew that that proposition would not hit the deck when it got here, surely the Government must have known. So it did not hit the deck. 
I am talking about family allowances. I opposed the abolition of the funeral benefit as well. I ask the honourable senator to commit his party to the full indexation of family allowances. 

 - Senator Ryan is on record also as saying that these allowances should not be indexed. I think the honourable senator ought to pull her into gear. 
I accept now that the official policy of the Australian Labor Party supports the indexation of family allowances. Let us see where the indexation of family allowances will take us. All of this to-ing and fro-ing of tactics with regard to the income testing of family allowances because of the personal exertion of children, I believe, was a smokescreen to cover up the fact that a family with five children is now $8.55 a week worse off because of the erosion of the family allowance as a result of price increases since 1976. 1 seek leave to have a table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

COMMONWEALTH PARLIAMENTARY LIBRARY 
Statistical Group 
Family Allowances 
Estimated amount of the allowance at each point of time if it had been subject to indexation on the same basis as pensions. 

<graphic href="078232197809275_39_1.jpg"></graphic>

Family Allowance Scheme introduced May 1976. The rates have remained at the same level. 
May increases are based on movements in the CP1 during the six months ended the previous December; November based on movements during the six months ended the previous June. Figures used are: November 1 976 5.58 percent; May 1977 8.35 percent; November 1977 4.70 per cent; May 1978 4.36 percent; and November 1978 3.38 per cent. Calculations are rounded to nearest 5 cents, with each subsequent increase based on the relevant rounded figure. 
Compiled at request by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service. 
I believe that if realistic family allowances and homemakers' allowances were provided a great many of our social and employment ills would be overcome. Obviously they would not all be overcome by a long chalk. 
As I said at the beginning of my speech, the problem has a social aspect as well as an economic aspect. I also said that the economic aspect of the problem arises because the labour market is over expanded with 45 per cent of the population seeking jobs for only 39 per cent at a time when the rate of new job creation has been slashed by technological change. That aspect of the problem has been recognised for a good number of years. I believe it was recognised by the staff of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations.  Mr Kirby,  the First Assistant Secretary of the Manpower and Economic Policy Division of the Department, made the sobering comment as far back as August 1976 that youth unemployment 'can be expected to persist in a greater or lesser degree irrespective of economic recovery and improved labour demand'. This situation has resulted from the dual factors- the social problem and the problem of technological change. 
Many people in the trade union movement have recognised and have warned of the problem of unbridled technological change. One of those people was  Mr J.  P. Maynes, the Federal  President  of the Federated Clerks Union, who 15 years ago raised this as the key issue. Indeed the union of which I happen to be the State  President  in Tasmania- the Shop Distributive and Allied Employees Association- has also been very well aware of it. The policies that were enunciated by the Federated Clerks Union were in the main accepted by the Australian Council of Trade Unions as far back as 1 967 and before. But what has occurred in the intervening period? The attention of the trade union movement has been diverted from its real purpose by the procommunist forces within that organisation acting on instructions from outside the organisation. Despite the warnings we are only now realising this factor. The resources of my own union- the SDA- have been tied down for a period of approximately 4 years because of an attempted takeover of the union. Fortunately we will see at a meeting of the national council next week the finalisation of the effort by the moderates within the SDA to stop the attempted takeover by those who have tried to subvert the SDA, which is the third largest union in the Commonwealth. 
I can only say that the Government in its industrial relations policy has not done what it should have done. It has not assisted the trade union movement in ensuring its attention was directed towards overcoming the real economic and social problems. The Government's industrial policy has been found wanting. Indeed, on the SDA case alone, had the Government and the Minister adopted a suggestion of a simple amendment to the Act many of the problems that the organisation faced and fought over for more than four years at a cost of over half a million dollars would not have been so great. 
I have a suggestion which is contained in the notice of motion which was debated and adjourned in the Senate on 24 August. My notice of motion is as follows: 
The Senate is of the opinion that in view of the persistent high levels of unemployment the employment responsibilities of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations should be allocated to a Minister whose sole responsibility is to deal with that subject. 
In my view that is where the responsibility lies. We now have the highest unemployment rate since the Great Depression. I believe that in a period of relatively low inflation and low unemployment the crucial dual functions of employment and industrial relations can be looked after by one Minister. But I would prefer to see  Mr Street  with sole responsibility for the employment aspect of his portfolio. I am concerned at the direction in which  Mr Macphee,  the Minister for Productivity, would take us. He is making suggestions and noises that one of the ways in which to overcome the problems of unemployment and the problems of the lack of full-time job vacancies is to have work sharing or more part-time work. Anybody with half an ounce of brains would see that that is nonsense and that we would be playing into the hands of the very people who forced the problem on us. 
In the two minutes that are left to me I wish to advert to a statement that was made last Monday by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm' Fraser)  to the Rotary Club of Sydney. The Prime Minister said: 
Because of the slow growth in world trade we cannot look to resurgence in general overseas trade and markets to lift our economy and thus increase employment. 
Thus far, however, we have heard the Government say that this was the way to increase the level of employment- to keep down the rate of inflation in Australia. Nobody is denying that many of the problems in respect of inflation occurred between 1972 and 1975 during the period of the Whitlam Government. But the Government has been saying that the development of world trade will overcome our problems. Now the Prime Minister is saying this will not be the case. I think it is time that Australia realised that we are in an area which is not secured either militarily or economically. I believe it is time for the Government, as part of its examination of the economy and as part of its responsibility to our near South East Asian neighbours, to have research carried out, in Treasury, trade, employment and other areas, into the feasibility of an extended South East Asia Pacific community with common economic, trade and defence policies. In that way Australia could well have a future in the region. Next year is the International Year of the Child. I commend to the Government for its consideration the problems and stresses of families with children. I believe that there is an opportunity for these problems to be tackled and overcome with benefit to all people within the Australian community. 
I am sorry; with due respect to present company, it shows what the Commonwealth Government thinks when it sends a junior Minister to that conference. I do not want to say anything against  Mr Macphee.  I have known him for many years. I have known him since he was a junior officer in one of the employers' organisations and subsequently as an employer's professional. He is a man gifted with a degree of smooth speech which I do not have and which I envy. But I do say this: He is a man who will play the role of the Commonwealth Government at that particular conference and that is why I am concerned about the type of thing he has been talking about over the last few months. 
Honourable senators will recall that last night I suggested that the employment situation in Australia today was so disconcerting that it required the full-time attention of a senior Cabinet Minister. I believe that no one in this Senate would deny that that should be one of the options which should be given proper consideration by the Commonwealth Government. I said that I felt that the proper person in that context, not only because of the speech that he made in the House of Representatives, which was a realistic and appreciative speech, but also because of his long history and background in this area, was the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street-  a senior Government Minister and the Minister who has been regarded until recently as the right-hand man of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  But what does the Prime Minister do? He sends a junior Minister to this most vital conference. That to me is an example of how the Commonwealth Government regards this conference. 
Let me remind honourable senators of what  Mr Macphee  said during an  AM  broadcast on 26 September 1978.  Mr Macphee  was responding to what Herman Huyer, the  Chairman  and Managing Director of Phillips Industries, had said. This question was posed to  Mr Macphee  by Warren Duncan: 

 Mr Macphee, when you are looking at the problems created by technology, are you looking at a situation in the future where we must accept unemployment as  Mr Street  has predicted, or are you thinking in terms of a situation where we can still hope for full employment as the full use of the people who are in the work force? 

 Mr Macphee had this to say: 
Yes, I believe we can return to high levels of employment. I think a combination of factors has to prevail. First of all, there has to be, as I have said, a rejuvenation of our existing industries - 
I do not quarrel with him on that. In some of these areas  Mr Macphee  is doing quite a good job, with tripartite committees in certain industries. He then went on to say: 
There has to be creation of new ones - 
That is, new industries-  and most of those are centred around high technology or the export of information and expertise. 
Again he has a point there. But where he falls down is in regard to the third and very important aspect. He said: 
Third, we must have a return to economic growth and we will only get that by being more competitive by technology and finally, I think there has got to be much more flexibility about our working hours and we have to look at more permanent part-time employment, more job-sharing . . . 
If that is  Mr Macphee  's answer to the social nature of the employment problem- that there has to be more job-sharing and more permanent part-time employment- he is whistling in the dark. He should tell that to the 380,000 people in Australia who are looking for full-time work. Next week I am going back to Tasmania and I am going out to the factories and the shops. I will say to the workers there: 'Oh, this man,  Mr Macphee,  has said that one of the ways you are going to overcome unemployment in Australia is to do a bit of job sharing. How about doing a bit of job sharing, you fellows?' I know what the response will be. It will be: 'Yes, sure, we'll share our jobs, but we won't share our pay'. We cannot ' expect the workers of Australia to share their pay, but that is what  Mr Macphee  is talking about. 
Where does he get these ideas, these curious ideas, from? He has been inveigled by the type of radical feminist rubbish that has been put forward to him. Let us see what he had to say when he opened the 'sharing of the work' conference which was organised by people well connected with the Women's Electoral Lobby in Canberra. That conference commenced on the 12th of this month. I will not go into the record of that conference but there are about five or six pages of total waffle. Well, there were some good points in it; not everything is bad. I think we do have to look at questions such as the sort of shifts involved, the staggering of working hours and so on. Also, as I have been saying for many years, we must look at the question of working hours, not necessarily as regards weekly working hours, but over the lifetime. But the burden of  Mr Macphee  's paper was to the effect that the answer to this problem of unemployment was the need to provide more permanent part-time work and more job-sharing. I will give him credit, he did say this: 
Whilst attention will be given at the conference to the people who do want part-time employment and will benefit from it, attention should also be given to the reaction of those who will not welcome their income being reduced by jobsharing. 
He at least recognises that. He went on: 
Thus, whilst I agree that debate should take place on the proposition that all in the community have the right to share the available work - 
What a curious statement that is! He said: 'All in the community have the right to share the available work'. That is an amazing statement- 'all in the community have the right to share the available work'. This civilisation and the trade union movement spent years getting kids out of the mines and out of the factories and releasing women from being pressured to go out to work because of need, and here we have the modern ideas of  Mr Macphee,  the person who is going to represent this Government at the vital conference which is being called by the Victorian Premier. I appeal to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to reconsider the appointment of this junior Minister, who will waffle on like this at that meeting, or be exposed for not getting down to brass tacks. What I said last evening is unchallengeable, that is, that the real problem of unemployment is that we have an expanded work force at the very time when new job opportunities are being cut off by rapid technological advances. As I said last evening, that has a social as well as an economic aspect. The people who created this problem during the late 1960s- Ian Macphee, as a representative of the employers, was one of them- were arguing against equal pay and were urging the women, the mothers, to go out into the work force as a source of cheap labour. He it was, along with the employers and the Government of the day, who was responsible for something that is just now being retrieved. But retrieved it must be, and it cannot be retrieved if a person such as Ian Macphee is to represent the Government at that conference. 
Of course, during last year, I think it was, I related to the Senate the parable of the magic tree by Sarah Dowse. The Senate will recall Sarah Dowse as the head of the Office of Women's Affairs. The Senate will recall that from that parable we could see that although she was appointed to the position by the Fraser Government she was attempting to undermine all the types of policies for which he thought he stood. Indeed, it was clear from a parable that she was acting not as a public servant but as part of the apparatus of the Women's Electoral Lobby and other radical feminist groups. Before I get on to anything else let me tell the Senate who was appointed as Director of the Office of Women's Affairs when Ian Macphee took charge of it. It was  Mrs Taperell.  If honourable senators ask those who know within the Labor Party who  Mrs Taperell  was they will find that she certainly was not somebody who was from the mainstream of the Labor movement in New South Wales- the Teachers Federation. She was from the left of the Labor movement and is a person who is on record as advancing the type of radical feminist nonsense which is so prevalent amongst a number of trendies within the ALP and presumably within the Liberal Party. That is the person who was appointed. Who bobs up as the deputy?  Senator Susan  Ryan's former research officer. The reason why I am saying this is that she is also on record as - 

 - Her name is Gay Pinkus. She also is part of the WEL operation. If I were a Minister I would be looking at all matters concerning women that came before me as advice because the Office of Women's Affairs vets everything that goes to the Ministers when it concerns the women of Australia. This is the very point I was making last night, that these particular people have no confidence in or respect for family standards and values and desire to see that the family standards and values which are needed for the strength of this country are undermined. 
I am standing here on behalf of the vast majority of women in this nation. I can see amongst honourable senators who is laughing and who is not. Let me say this: The problem that the Labor Party is facing now is-- 
When I was in the Labor Party we held the five House of Representative seats for Tasmania and now the Labor Party holds none. 
I did not expel myself,  Senator O'Byrne.  I was expelled by nine votes to eight, one of whom was  Senator Gietzelt  and one of whom was  Mr Hartley.  If  Mr Hartley  had not been there I would still be in the Labor Party. From the experience I have and from the talks I have had with the rank and file workers I reiterate that they will not be in the type of radical trendyism that now afflicts the Labor Party. They will not be in the efforts of the Women's Electoral Lobby which, for example, asked the victimless crimes inquiry in Tasmania that all laws on victimless crimes, including those on homosexuality, prostitution, incest and abortion, be abolished. They will not have a bar of that. If the State Government in Tasmania has any sense at all it will reject out of hand the recommendations which have come down today from the so-called victimless crimes inquiry. I am sorry that  Senator Ryan  is not here. 

 - Mr President, that is typical of  Senator McLaren  and  Senator O'Byrne.  They both say that I did not warn her. I phoned the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  and told him this morning that if he did not do something about the occurrence of last night which involved  Senator Ryan  and  Senator McLaren  I would. I am going to do it now. I told  Senator Wriedt  that I intended to do it and I intend to speak on that issue tonight. Last night during the debate there was an interjection by  Senator Wriedt.  That interjection concerned the Labor Party policy in respect of family allowances. It occurs on page 998 of Senate  Hansard.  I said: 
I am talking about family allowances. 
Then I said: 
I ask the honourable senator to commit his party to the full indexation of family allowances. 

 Hansard reads: 

 - Senator Ryan is on record also as saying that these allowances should not be indexed. 1 think the honourable senator ought to pull her into gear. 
That was it until  Senator McLaren  in reading from a document made his comments, as recorded at page 1016, which I will not read. You can all read them. 
All right. I will read them. If  Senator Gietzelt  wants the comments read I will read them, but honourable senators can see them on page 1016 if they want to.  Senator McLaren  in the debate last night said: 
I well remember receiving Press statements from our Senate Leader- 
That is  Senator Wriedt.  He went on to say: 
There is no doubt that the Government would have proceeded with this plan if its intentions had not be made public . . . 
I then interjected with these words: 
Did you call for the indexation of family allowances? 
And  Senator McLaren  said: 

 Senator Harradine should refer to where  Senator Ryan  said that she was opposed to the indexation of family allowances. If he is not able to produce the evidence he should apologise to  Senator Ryan. 
I retorted that I would go straight to the Library and get it and come straight back.  Senator McLaren  then said: 
Go and get it and then come in here and make your apologies. 
Which I duly did. But when I started proving the point - 
He says 'No, you didn't'. Do you want me to prove it? I will prove it to you tonight. If I did not prove it to your satisfaction last night, I will prove it to you tonight. When I read the letter from the  Sydney Morning Herald-  this is on pages 1022 and 1023 of Senate  Hansard- it.  proved that so far as a national organisation of women in this country is concerned  Senator Ryan  was opposed to the indexation of family allowances and that she had replied to it in respect of that.  Senator McLaren  sought to stop me saying that last night. After the Senate rose I went towards my room.  Senator Ryan  was talking to  Senator Missen.  As I was going past minding my own business, she said: "That was a despicable thing that you did tonight'. She said: I did not answer that questionnaire that was sent to me by the Women's Action Alliance'. And that was said to the cackling down the corridor of  Senator McLaren  who said to me that I ought to be ashamed of the lies that I told in the Senate. 
Do you then say that I was telling the truth? 
Let me just prove this to the Senate, because I think it is important. I have been called many things but I have never been called a liar and I have never said anything which I did not have a valid and perfectly good reason for saying.  Senator McLaren  will not deny that  Senator Ryan  did not respond to what was said or that she said it was a despicable thing that I said. I have in my hand a Press statement dated Thursday, 8 December 1977 by the Women's Action Alliance. It includes a statement of a questionnaire which was forwarded to all members of parliament in the Australian Capital Territory in respect of a number of family issues. That Press statement contains the replies by  Senator Ryan  and the reply to question No. 1 is in  Senator Ryan's  handwriting. Question No. 1 is: 'Do you support removing the present economic discrimination against the single income family by indexation of family allowances?' The answer to that in her own handwriting is no. It is an interesting document. I think I would like to seek leave to table the document because other members of parliament will be interested to see some of the other answers. This is an important women's organisation Indeed, it is an organisation which - 
The Women's Action Alliance, yes.  Dr Klugman,  the Opposition spokesman in the other place for health matters was pleased to read or to have incorporated into the  Hansard  the organisation's letter of 23 August as published in the  Australian Financial Review.  That letter paid out on the Government in no uncertain terms. I think it is unjustifiable for  Senator Ryan  and  Senator McLaren  to do what they did. Furthermore, because  Senator Ryan  is not present tonight I am restrained in saying other things which I feel should be explained to the Senate and to the people of Canberra as to her attitudes about the questions which are vital to the future of family life in this nation, including the fact that of everybody in Australia she was selected to open the Fourth Homosexual National Conference in Sydney this year. 

 - Senator Gietzelt asked what is wrong with that. 
She was also invited to speak at the National Right to Life Conference which was held in Canberra at the same time. 
That is all right,  Senator Gietzelt.  Let me say this - 
No, not at all. The result of that conference was that there was a donnybrook in Hyde Park at the time Congressman Hyde was addressing a Right to Life rally on that Sunday. Many senior Labor people from New South Wales were at the pro-life rally. An organised group from the Homosexuals Cooperative, one hundred of whom were arrested, attempted to bust up that meeting. I did not hear  Senator Ryan  publicly condemn that sort of activity. Finally, I want to link these two matters together. Last evening I mentioned that this question of unemployment has a technological and a social problem. 
Yes, there is a 70 per cent rate of syphilis, according to the  Bulletin  recently. On the technical aspects, I believe that the Minister for Productivity,  Mr Macphee,  is not adequate to represent the Government because, although he is competent in dealing with individual industries, he does not have the weight to call the pause that is necessary to enable us to look at where advances in technology are taking us and at who are the principal innovators and applicators of technological change. 
By and large the multinational companies are the applicators and innovators of technological change. I have been saying that for years. One of the ways in which I have been involved in overcoming that problem is through international unionism. Secondly, however, I believe that  Mr Macphee  is not adequate to the situation when it comes to an examination of the social problem. That major social problem, of which he was part, of forcing, through economic circumstances and pressurestatus pressure- mothers into the work force must be overcome and the position must be reversed if we are to look at the problem properly. I believe that a senior Minister is required to look at it. The problem would then confront that senior Minister and the Government might have to re-think all of its economic and family support policies. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Administrative Services been drawn to two items on  AM  on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week in which an Australian citizen admitted to doing broadcasts for the clandestine radio station operated by the Thai Communist Party with the admitted aim of supporting the violent overthrow of the Thai Government by the forces of that party? Has the Minister studied those items to determine whether action is indicated under the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Act or the Crimes Act? 
I  present the following petition from 100 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Terminaton of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
2 ) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index Figures; 
And whereas that Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November; 
It is the current intention of the same Government to legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics, of Democratic Government, and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to their Subsistence. 
The foregoing facts impel the under-signed Petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that trustworthiness of Governments should at all times be above question. 
And to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian Pensioners, by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of Pension rates. 
And your pensioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Acting Clerk-  Petitions have been lodged for presentation as follows: 
I will not delay the Senate for too long. Before getting on the the gravamen of this debate let me refer firstly to the speech of  Senator McLaren,  who has just resumed his seat. He started his speech by roundly criticising the  speaker  before him,  Senator Townley,  after  Senator Townley  had, I thought, indicated that on at least one substantial section of this Bill he would be voting on this side of the chamber and against the Government. It really is idiotic to attack an honourable senator on the Government side of the chamber straight after he has announced to the Senate his intention to vote with the Opposition. It is an extraordinary situation. I am sure that it will not alter  Senator 
Townley 's decision on this occasion, but it is not a great encouragement to supporters of the Government to cross the floor if after they have made that decision, which must be a very difficult decision to make, they are confronted with a barrage of abuse. 
To go to the essence of the Bill, there are a number of aspects of this Bill about which I am concerned. I am particularly concerned about three aspects of it. I might mention at the outset that I will be voting against the Bill as a whole, but there are three aspects of it about which I am particularly concerned. The first aspect is the proposal for the indexation of pensions and benefits to be changed from a twice-yearly basis to annually. I believe simply that justice delayed is justice denied and if there is a standard of benefit or pension which is appropriate to a circumstance it is justice denied to fail to adjust that rate for increases in the cost of living as those increases in the cost of living are assessed. Supporters of the Government have mentioned, with some justification, that the basis for indexing pensions and benefits is superior to that which is used to adjust wages- in other words, there is full consumer price index indexation for pensions and benefits whereas there is only partial indexation for wages. But the point is that if a decision has been made to adjust pensions and benefits to ensure that their value is not eroded through price increases they should be adjusted when the Australian Statistician brings down his figures quarterly. 
While I am on my feet I would like to draw the attention of the Senate- in particular,  Senator McLaren-  to the fact that on 27 April 1976 I moved in this chamber an amendment to the Social Services Amendment Bill deploring the failure of the Government to back date all increased payments to 1 January 1976. That dealt with pensions and benefits. The purpose of my amendment was to attempt to ensure that the adjustments were operative from 1 January. I did not get a seconder for my amendment. 

 - Senator McLaren was present and he did not second that amendment. I was left holding the bag. I think that those pensioners who are listening to this debate tonight should recognise the fact that I moved that amendment and did not get a seconder for it.  Senator McLaren  was silent on that matter. 
Insofar as age pensions are concerned, I am opposed to the proposition that as from November 1978 pensions payable to persons aged 70 years or more will remain at their current rates but a pensioner may qualify for the new indexed rates subject to an income test. I recognise that the Government has serious financial problems to overcome. I hope that it is on the way to overcoming them; it has a long way to go. But I do not believe that it is at all proper to select a group of people over age 70 to implement a proposition which, as  Senator Townley  has mentioned, is clearly contrary to the policy of the major party within the coalition. The Government may have other valid reasons for doing so and perhaps the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  could comment on them. 
The third point I raise is that the Minister said in her second reading speech that the Government will continue the new scheme of family allowance which it introduced in 1 976 and that this allowance will not be subject to any income test or to taxation. Nevertheless, as I understand it, the fact remains that of all the allowances and benefits, the family allowance is the only one which is not indexed. That is totally unjust to the large numbers of families who are receiving the family allowance. Here we have a system which was introduced as a trade-off for the previous system of child endowment and tax rebates. It is unjust to see these rates eroded; and eroded they have been. I incorporated in  Hansard  on 27 September 1978 figures which show the erosion of family allowance rates since this allowance was introduced in 1976. To cut a long story short, a family with five children is now worse off by $8 a week by way of loss of purchasing power than it was in 1976. 1 ask the Government to examine this aspect. I know that the Minister is very conscious of this matter but I urge that she and the Government give urgent consideration to a renewed family allowance and family support scheme. 
Finally I deal briefly with the proposition in this Bill to abolish the maternity allowance. The maternity allowance is not worth a great deal but it is worth something, particularly to those on low incomes. I cannot accept the philosophy behind its abolition and I cannot accept the reasons given for its abolition. In the first place I believe that to take away anything which is supportive of the family is inconsistent with what I understand to be overall government policy. Secondly, to say that costs associated with confinements are now largely covered by health insurance arrangements is not true. I do not know whether those women who are on the way and who are listening would be able to apply to their medical funds for the cost of a basinet or nappies or the like and get refunds for them. Of course they would not. 
One such lady said to me that at least the Government should have had the decency to make it operate nine months from the time the Bill comes into operation. 
-In a sense this is another retrospective piece of legislation. I said I would not keep the Senate long. I make those comments. 
I was not going to enter this debate but I think that I ought to if only to remind the chamber,  Senator McLaren  in particular, that this is an important clause and that votes are needed; and when one has a vote one keeps it in the bag and does not blow the bag as he has done. One also does not barrel with a barrage of abuse a senator who has made a difficult decision to vote against his party and his Government. I fully expect that  Senator Townley  will maintain his position and vote according to what he has said. I know that the Government and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  are very concerned to see that social justice is done. They obviously are attached to the principle of indexation as they are attached to the principle that if the Government establishes a rate of pension or benefit which it thinks, in terms of social justice, is adequate, then that rate should not be eroded by price increases. However, there is another equally justified principle and that is that justice delayed is justice denied. I believe that this measure is quite contrary to the latter principle and, therefore, contrary to the first principle which is a principle that the Government upholds. 
I have an amendment to clause 22 which, if successful, will require an amendment to clause 2 1 . Clause 22 reads: 
1 ) Pan V of the Principal Act is repealed. 
Notwithstanding the repeal effected by sub-section ( 1 ), Part V of the Principal Act continues to apply in relation to the birth of a child that occurred before the commencement of this section. 
It seeks to repeal Part V of the Principal Act which deals with maternity allowances. Subclause 2 states: 
Notwithstanding the repeal effected by sub-section ( 1 ), Part V of the Principal Act continues to apply in relation to the birth of a child that occurred before the commencement of this section. 
Under the provisions of clause (2 ) of this Bill the commencement of that section appears to be 1 November 1 978. 1 move: 
At end of sub-clause (2), add 'or occurs within nine months after the commencement of this section '. 
I propose that amendment, not because I am supporting the abolition of maternity allowances at all but for another reason altogether. I make my position very clear. I oppose the abolition of maternity allowances. I gave my reasons for doing so in the second reading debate last night. Briefly, I believe that it is contrary to the Government's philosophy that it should take away from the mothers of Australia something that has been their right for over 30 years and to take out a whole part of the Social Services Act. Admittedly, as  Senator Grimes  has said, the figure is not substantial, but the point is that a lot of mothers look forward to receiving this benefit. The Minister for Social Security in her second reading speech gave as the reason that the purpose for which the amount was granted is now catered for under the various health services. As I said last night, I would like to see a mother claim for a new bassinet and nappies from the medical benefits organisations. 
Nevertheless, whilst opposing the proposition, as I did last night in the second reading debate, I believe that the Government should consider the amendment I have moved. It results from the situation which arose when I was on a talk-back program in Hobart just after the Budget was brought down. One lady rang up and said: 'You would think the Government would do the decent thing, if it wanted to abolish it, and make it operative nine months hence'. Clause 22 continues what the Government seems to be doing lately and that is adopting retrospective legislation. This is a gesture, but I believe that the Government ought to have a look at it to see whether it could not agree with my amendment. I think that it is reasonable and that it would be appreciated by the women concerned. It would show that the Government is not intent on adopting the principle of retrospectivity in legislation, as would be the case if it carried on with its intention to push through clauses 2 1 and 22. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. It refers to actions commenced in the Australian Industrial Court, as it was then known, in November 1974, by  Mr B.  T. Egan against the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees' Association officers involving four years' litigation and costing over $300,000. Incidentally,  Mr Egan  is now no longer the national secretary of the SDA. Is the Minister aware that the costly litigation would have been unnecessary had the Government accepted union submissions for amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to remove validation of so-called Moore and Doyle problems from a judicial to an administrative tribunal such as the Industrial Registrar who regularly and efficiently handles registrations and might just as well handle re-registrations? In view of the obvious importance of this matter to a large number of unions registered under the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, will the Minister consider the call of the national  president  of Australia 's third largest union for an inquiry into the course of those protracted proceedings and whether amendments or repeal of any provision of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is indicated to avoid a repetition of such protracted and costly proceedings? 
I hope not to delay the Committee. However, I wish to direct attention to clause 9 of the Bill which seeks to repeal section 10 of the principal Act and substitute new section 10. Proposed new section 10 (2) states: 
A Commonwealth medical benefit under sub-section ( I ) in respect of a professional service is an amount equal to- 
where the person incurring expense is an eligible pensioner and the service is rendered to him or his dependent- 
85 percent . . . 
Proposed new section 10 (2) (b) states:  where- 
the person incurring expense is a person who may enter into an agreement, in accordance with subsection 20a (2), with respect to the Commonwealth medical benefit; and 
he enters into such an agreement, 75 per cent ofthe fee specified in respect of the service in the table in relation to the State in which the service is rendered; or 
Proposed new sub-section (2) (c) states:  in any other case- 
40 per cent . . . 
That appears to me to leave in the hands of the medical practitioner entirely the fate of those people who may be classified as disadvantaged. Is it a fact that if a medical practitioner refuses to bulk bill persons who are classified as disadvantaged, those persons will not receive a refund of 75 per cent but only 40 per cent of the fee? If that is the case and, as I read the Bill it is the case, in my view the Bill is inadequate. It is for that reason that I supported the Opposition in the second reading stage in its proposed amendment, which was defeated. That amendment having been defeated, it really is for the Government to give some guarantees that action will be taken to ensure that a medical practitioner is required to take the steps which would ensure that a disadvantaged person does not become more disadvantaged because the medical practitioner concerned refuses to bulk bill, in which case the refund would not be 75 per cent, as presumably envisaged by the Government for disadvantaged persons, but 40 per cent. 
I present the following petition from 121 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
I present the following petition from 384 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition ofthe undersigned respectfully showeth: - 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 1 6 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
I ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Firstly, I take advantage of this opportunity, which is my first, to congratulate  Senator John  Watson on the maiden speech which he made yesterday. It was a maiden speech which touched my heart. I did not realise, until he made his maiden speech, that trade unionists, manufacturers and employers had so much in common. I am sure that we will be able to have a good deal of common cause with  Senator Watson  during his stay in this Parliament. I have only one-- 
I must object to that. I know that during the time  Senator Watson  was in an influential position in that industry he fought very hard to maintain it against decisions that were made at a federal level. 
As I see it. the thrust of the debate on this matter thus far has fallen into four categories. First of all we had legalistic argument. We had the argument that the issue was one of abortion. We had the argument that the issue was one of probity of government. We had the argument that the issue was one of self-government for the Australian Capital Territory. I do not think we had any other strains of argument except perhaps the characteristic Cavanagh clairvoyance, if I can adopt that phrase without any disrespect to the honourable senator, which was exhibited just before the suspension of the sitting. I think it is worthwhile disposing of that contribution in this context: I think that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  should have regard to what  Senator Cavanagh  said when different devices and methods are available as time goes on.  Senator Cavanagh  suggested that the Ordinance was a bad ordinance because it dealt only with medical practitioners. The essential part of the Ordinance- clause 3 (2)- states: 
A registered medical practitioner shall not carr)' out treatment for the termination of a pregnancy otherwise than at a hospital conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission. 
I understood the burden of  Senator Cavanagh  's argument to be that the Ordinance was bad because it referred only to registered medical practitioners and conceivably there could be others who could lawfully perform an abortion. Let me refer to section 83 of the Crimes Act of 1 900 of the State of New South Wales and its application to the Australian Capital Territory. It provides: 
Whosoever unlawfully administers to or causes to be taken by any woman, whether with child or not, any drug or noxious thing or unlawfully uses any instrument or other means with intent in any such case to procure a miscarriage shall be liable to penal servitude for ten years. 
I refer now to a judgment on the subject, which reads: 
For the use of an instrument with intent to procure a miscarriage to be lawful the accused must have honestly believed on reasonable grounds that the act done by him was (a) necessary to preserve the woman from a serious danger to her life or physical or mental health (not being merely the normal dangers of pregnancy and childbirth), which the continuance of the pregnancy would entail; and (b) in the circumstances not out of proportion to the danger to be averted. 
That was the judgment of  Mr Justice  Menhennitt in Regina v Davidson. Implicit in the judgment which I have just quoted is the proposition that the person using the instrument must by training and qualification be able to form an opinion on reasonable grounds that the act done was necessary and not out of proportion to the danger to be averted. That person must also be in a position lawfully to give or perform any medical or surgical service, attendance, operation or advice. According to an opinion which has been obtained from  Mr Kelly,  a Canberra Queen's Counsel, he must be a registered medical practitioner unless he carries out the procedure other than for fee or reward. The argument of  Senator Cavanagh  by which he related that to the present Ordinance is a convoluted argument. I admit that with the type of advances in menstrual regulation which will probably be upon us within the next 10 years, it may be necessary for the Minister of Health to see whether the Ordinance is adequate, but at this time it is generally accepted, except by the clairvoyant  Senator Cavanagh,  that the ordinance would ensure that abortions will not be legal if they are performed outside a hospital conducted by the Capital Territory Health Commission. 
Aside from  Senator Cavanagh  's rather convoluted argument as I see the thrust of the debate it has been legalistic and has concerned the questions of abortion, the probity of government and self-government for the Australian Capital Territory. I think that almost every honourable senator, except perhaps  Senator Puplick,  has abandoned the proposition that the issue is one of self-government in the Australian Capital Territory. I think that is the case. If  Senator Puplick  continues to cling to the vestige that this debate is something to do with self-government in the Australian Capital Territory let me put a proposition to him. I understood him to say that matters dealing with moral and conscience issues ought to be determined by the elected representatives of the Australian Capital Territory. Let me throw in another moral issue- capital punishment. If the Minister for the Capital Territory were to refer the question of capital punishment to the Legislative Assembly for decision, would  Senator Puplick  say that an ordinance must be made in accordance with the decision of the Assembly if that decision were that capital punishment ought to be introduced in the Australian Capital Territory? Of course he would not. To be fair to  Senator Evans,  I do not think that he would go along with that proposition. 
To be fair to him and to other honourable senators, I think that the whole question of selfgovernment in the Australian Capital Territory is now no longer tenable in this debate. Why is it not tenable? It is not tenable because constitutionally the Legislative Assembly just simply does not have the power to determine these issues. It is an advisory body only. It is a part time body only. There are only 18 members of the Legislative Assembly and all of them have full time jobs, other than being Legislative Assembly members. A new election has been repeatedly postponed. Indeed, there is to be a referendum on the 25th of this month to decide its future form and the tipping is that the people will keep it as it is- an advisory body. I do not want to influence the decision. If they want it to be a legislative body, that is okay. But that decision has not been made. In fact five of the 18 members of the Legislative Assembly- almost one-third- are replacement members. Imagine what people would say about this chamber if one-third of our numbers- 2 1 senators- were not elected. Imagine what they would say about our decisions. They say enough about them now, let alone what they would say about them then. 
Having disposed of that aspect of the argument, we come to the argument that this issue relies not on the question of abortion or on the legalistic interpretation but on the question of probity of government. Here we have a Minister of the Crown who has given an undertaking which he has not upheld. I refer to the initial speech that  Senator Ryan  made on 1 1 October 1978 in support of her disallowance motion. She said: 
In bringing in the Termination  or  Pregnane)' Ordinance 1978. the Government has flouted the democratic principle and reneged on its own promise, given when the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  said: 

 Senator Ryan then quoted him as saying: 
We have decided as a government, and quite rightly so, that matters relating to the Australian Capital Territory, matters that have great social consequence and matters that have wide-ranging consequences for the people in this community will be debated, discussed and decided by those people who were elected by the local community. I pay full credit to the way in which members of the Legislative Assembly have faced up to taking decision . . . 

 Senator Ryan said: 
That was a reply by  Mr Hunt  on this matter on 24 March 1 977. He proceeded to say: 
I conclude by saying that the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly voted to ban abortions outside the recognised hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory for a 90-day period during which time it will debate the wider issues and take decisions in respect of the way in which abortions will be carried out in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Frankly,  Senator Ryan  could be excused for taking the view that that was an undertaking given by the Minister. As has been stated, that statement was an answer to a question from  Mr Beazley.  Apparently a number of honourable senators are saying that this is a crucial matter and that it is on this basis that they are going to decide the issue. Let me read to the Senate the circumstances under which that undertaking was given, because it is not that 'undertaking' which is important. What is important in fact is the reference that was made by the then Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  on behalf of the Minister for Health to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly on 16 March 1977. It is that to which we must address ourselves, but I agree that  Senator Ryan  and other honourable senators could be excused for thinking that what  Mr Hunt  said was an undertaking. 
Let me describe the circumstances under which that so-called undertaking was given. As  Senator Ryan  said, it was given on 24 March 1977. May I be permitted to read from  Hansard  of the House of Representatives of that date? The question is headed 'Australian Capital Territory: Change in Criminal Law' and reads: 

 Mr BEAZLEY; I direct my question to the Prime Minister. 
The Prime Minister gave a quick duck-shove later on. The question continues: 
The right honourable gentleman will recall that on 10 May 1973 this House rejected a proposed change in the criminal law in the Australian Capital Territory related to the termination of pregnancy, entitled 'The Medical Practices Clarification Bill '. It was rejected by 98 to 23 votes. I ask the Prime Minister whether there are proposals to change the law in the Australian Capital Territory again. If so, will the matter come to this Parliament? If the matter will not come to this Parliament, why is the decision of 10 May 1973 being evaded, and why is this Parliament being evaded? If the Legislative Assembly, which was not elected with this question as an election issue, opts for free standing abortion clinics, does the Government - 
Before I refer to a matter which I consider important may I take the opportunity of saying that the Senate staff, the pay staff in particular, is very courteous and prompt, but I agree with what  Senator Georges  said concerning a newly-elected senator. It is important that he gets a bit of pay in his pocket as soon as he is elected. He is entitled to it. I might mention that in my case it was a couple of months after I was elected that I got my first pay cheque. Upon being elected I went into my office and received a large number of telephone calls from the heads of this and that department in Canberra offering courtesies and services, for which I was very grateful, but the phone call did not come for quite a period of time in fact, until some time in February. By then my bank manager was saying: 'How about it Harradine; when are you going to fix it up?' Some time in February I did get that telephone call. The office girl said: 'It is another one of these fellows from Canberra'. I said: 'Who is it this time?' She said 'The Senate pay section'. I said: 'Put him on'. 
The gentleman, whose name I cannot remember- it may have been Jones- gave his name and said that he was from the pay section, adding: 'We would like your bank account number.' I said: 'My bank account number is my own business. What do you want the number for?' He said: 'We pay senators monthly by cheque.' I said ' I have fought for years for the worker to receive his pay weekly in cash, and that is how I will have it'. There was silence for about 20 seconds and then the gentleman concerned floored me by saying: 'That is an unusual and indeed unique request, senator. We will see what we can do but, of course, as with any other worker, you will have to come to your place of employment and pick it up every week'. No doubt that person has since been promoted, but may I just make that point on behalf of senators who will be elected in the future. 
The real reason that I got to my feet was to say that it is difficult for me to raise these sorts of questions in the committees because I do not have the virtue of bi-location or tri-location when two or three committees are meeting at once. I raise the real question of the practical ability of senators to attend Senate committees. I know that the Standing Orders provide that a senator may attend a Senate committee, that he has the power to speak but not vote, but in my case I am physically precluded from doing so because I must fund the cost of my attending. I take this opportunity of raising again that issue before the Committee of the Whole. 
The contribution of  Senator McLaren  urges me to respond. The position of an Independent senator is most difficult. I do not have a great deal of difficulty within my own caucus, although I have some difficulty in obtaining a seconder now and again. The decision that was made in my case, as I understand it, was the same as the decision that had been made in previous cases, and that was that an additional staff member should be located in Canberra to assist me, particularly in the analysis of legislation that was coming forward. I, and no doubt the Australian Democrats, do not have the facilities that both major parties have. They have their committees to which they refer legislation. Of course that benefit is not available to me as an Independent senator, nor to the members of the Australian Democrats. So I think it is only fair, in the interests of mature consideration of legislation which comes before the Parliament, for the Government to make available, in my case a public servant, to analyse legislation and to present me with that analysis upon which I then can make a judgment in the interests of the people of my State and, of course, the people of Australia generally. I am not terribly familiar with the types of arrangements that are entered into with the Public Service Board. We decide issues in this chamber which affect the whole of Australia. I suppose that if there is a situation with a particular piece of legislation or a particular government policy which requires my staff member in Canberra- or the Australian Democrats' staff member in Canberra- to investigate in, say, Perth because the legislation affects Perth, then I would rather see him go there than me, not that I have anything against Perth. But I have my function to perform within my own State. I know that the staff of the leaders of the Government and the Opposition have those travel facilities as well, and so they ought to, because we are considering matters concerning not only our own States but also the whole of Australia. 
I support what has been stated on this side of the chamber this evening. I have a particular case to raise, concerning a  Mr S.  F. McDermott in Tasmania. Rather than delay the Committee, I simply indicate that I will raise this matter with the relevant Minister, subsequently. This is an extraordinary situation which means that as a result of the changes that have been made the future estimated cost of treatment of this ex-serviceman will be in excess of $1,000 per annum. He will need to pay out $1,000 per annum which he did not have to pay out previously. I wish to raise this case with the Minister but rather than- 
Yes, that is for recovery. Rather than delay the Committee, I will raise the matter with the Minister directly. 
I think it appropriate today for me to raise a matter which was not raised in the Estimates Committee proceedings, for the reason that I mentioned before: One does not have the gift of bilocation or trilocation. I refer to the estimate of $134,000 for the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics-Australia Agreement for Scientific and Technical Co-operation. I am wondering what point discussions on this agreement have reached. Am I to understand that a situation has been reached where some guarantees have been sought by our Government in respect of the personnel involved in this agreement? 
I refer to a question I asked on 7 April 1 978 relating to the visit of  Mr Valadimir  Kuzin who has a well documented history as a KGB agent and of subversive activities on behalf of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in liberal democratic countries. That question related to the grant of a visa to  Mr Kuzin  by this Government. I referred to the fact that three years ago on 1 1 November 1975- a date which a number of senators would remember- the late  Senator Greenwood  asked a similar question of the then Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee).  He questioned whether  Mr Kuzin  was to be provided with a visa to come to Australia.  Senator Willesee  responded that it was not intended to provide a visa for  Mr Kuzin  because- as I recall reading his reply-  Mr Kuzin  had not sought one. The point I make is that  Mr Kuzin  is the head of the Foreign Relations Section of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics State Committee for Science and Technology. Is it a fact that the Government has sought some guarantees from the Government of the Soviet Union relating to the personnel who are using or who may use that organisation as a cover for their activities? I think that is an appropriate matter to which the Government should respond, particularly in view of the revelations yesterday by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock). 
The second matter I refer to concerns the estimates for the Australian Development Assistance Bureau. I would like to be assured by the Government that moneys that are paid by taxpayers through ADAB to the International Planned Parenthood Federation are spent in accordance with the policies of the Government and the generally accepted viewpoints of the community. I also seek guarantees that the work that is performed by the use of moneys provided by Australian taxpayers is not counterproductive. In other words, there are very efficient and acceptable methods of family planning about which there have been international conferences and which only in recent yearsindeed, over the past 18 months- have been developed to a point which makes them easily understood and acceptable to the people who are in most need of that type of family planning education. There are methods which are now acceptable in the types of communities which have a perceived need for the type of family planning education that is required. However, I would point out to the Government that in Bangladesh there is a very real concern that an international abortion provider, Population Services International, is operating m that field on a profit basis. What I am seeking from ADAB through the Government is guarantees that the moneys expended by ADAB are used to fund projects consistent with the approaches taken by the 
Government and by the community generally. Nothing that I say should reflect against the work that is done by ADAB. Two weeks ago I had an opportunity to see some of the very good work being done by ADAB in the field of animal research and animal husbandry. I congratulate that organisation on the work that it is doing. However, I raise those two points in the Committee of the Whole to see what response can be forthcoming. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications by referring him to Australian Government  Gazette  No. 28 of 13 July 1978 wherein an examination was advertised for entry to the Telecommunications Commission as lineman in training in all States except Queensland. Is the Minister aware that quite a large number of applicants responded and that, insofar as Tasmania was concerned, the examination was held on 16 September, on the understanding that the top successful candidates would be interviewed for the 12 jobs? 
Is the Minister aware that on 1 1 October 1978, before those interviews took place but after the examinations were held, the whole scheme was cancelled? Is the Minister aware of the fact that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has condemned the misleading advertising of private employers that leads to disillusionment amongst job applicants, and does that action of the Commission fall within that category? 
-The Senate has a stack of about 40 Bills to deal with between now and this time next week. That does not permit me to analyse the statements made by  Senator Rocher.  I have no doubt that the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  on behalf of the Government will deal with these matters, as he sees fit, in his response to the debate. However, I want to advert to the fact that, as a number of other senators have mentioned, the future does look promising. Not the least promising feature of this Bill is that the promise of funds expires on 30 June 1980. That will be a promising year indeed. It will be the year of the State elections in Tasmania and, presumably, it will be the year of the Federal elections. 
I am told that my time is up. I support the legislation. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and refers to the reported statement of the Minister for 
Employment and Industrial Relations that penalty rates were causing increasing concern and were inhibiting the creation of new jobs, particularly part time ones. My question refers also to the Minister's indication that the Government would help employers if they pushed for a reexamination of penalty rates. I ask the Minister: Before the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations jumped in with that undertaking, what guarantees did he obtain from the employers that they would protect current full time jobs and current permanent part time jobs; and what guarantees did he obtain from the employers that they would accept their social responsibilities in ensuring that service industries are preserved for permanent jobs and will not degenerate into casual and moonlighting-type industries? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and follows a question I asked last week. I inquired whether any guarantees of job security and job creation had been obtained by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations from employers, including David Jones Ltd, to whom  Mr Street  had promised support in their campaign to abolish weekend penalty rates. Is it not a fact that the records of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations show that extended weekend trading patterns already have caused a substantial loss of full time jobs in the retail trade and increased bankruptcy of small businesses in favour of increased casualisation of the industry and attempted exploitation of child labour by certain major chain stores? I ask whether it is a fact that at the Victorian State Council meeting of the Liberal Party of Australia,  Mr Street  repeated his promise to the employers and was backed up by his counterpart in Victoria,  Mr Ramsay,  who said: 
If we as a people cannot harness technological change and a shorter working week to satisfactorily employ every man, woman and child who wants a job, there is something wrong with us. 
Will the Minister bring to the attention of  Mr Ramsay  the fact that child labour was largely eradicated over 100 years ago? I again ask: Before promising support for employers to abolish weekend penalty rates, what guarantees did the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations obtain from employers to safeguard permanent jobs, to prevent exploitation of child labour, to protect small service businesses from bankruptcy and to ensure additional jobs which would be suitable at least for some of the hundreds of thousands of people seeking full time jobs, 291,000 of whom are in receipt of the unemployment benefit? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, relates to the misery, devastation and death amongst the refugees fleeing Vietnam in all sorts of vessels. One estimate is that 100,000 of these refugees have perished in their flight. I ask the Minister: Is it proper that this tragedy be regarded as one of just human flotsam on the oceans of the world and what is the Government doing to ensure that this attitude is not continued in this so-called civilised society? More specifically, how many of the 380 Vietnamese who have been issued with letters of authority from the Australian Government to join relatives in this country in fact have come to Australia? How many are still in Vietnam because of the delay and procrastination of the Vietnamese Government? Furthermore, is it not a fact that this delay and procrastination builds up such frustration amongst those people that they will do almost anything to get out of Vietnam and join their relatives? 
Obviously I do not wish to delay the Senate but I take this opportunity, the motion for the first reading of what I believe is the last group of money Bills, to speak about various matters. I simply wish to record my concern that I was not notified of two changes in arrangements that occurred this week in the Senate. I understand the Government's problem in getting all of its legislative program through the Senate but I make the point that it would be appreciated if I were notified in advance of any changes in the program or, alternatively, if there are any major statements to be brought down about which we have not been notified. I make that point. 
The other simple point I want to make relates to the question of unemployment. Because of the constraints of time I did not seek to enter the debate on the matter of public importance raised in the Senate yesterday. However, I issue a warning because of something  Senator Chipp  said. I warn the Senate that it is no use looking at panaceas of the type that were put up to solve the problem of unemployment. We must recognise that unemployment requires social and economic solutions because it is caused by social and economic problems. The simple fact of the matter is that in Australia there are too many people seeking too few jobs at a time when jobs are being slashed by automation and technological change. To consider panaceas such as the abolition of penalty rates without first getting absolute guarantees that they will create full-time jobs is not looking at the problem in a proper and effective manner. I believe it is essential that we look at the problem so that all those people who are looking for full-time jobs can obtain them. After all, there are 291,000 people in Australia receiving the unemployment benefit and they are the ones for whom we should be looking for jobs. 1 am sorry to delay the Senate but I raise those points for consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a first time. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Senator Webster)  agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the questions with regard to the several stages for the passage through the Senate of the Bills being put in one motion at each stage and the consideration of such Bills together in the Committee of the Whole. 
Ordered that the Bills may be taken through all their stages without delay. 
I too feel that the debate on this Bill should be the occasion to mention a matter which is giving a good deal of concern to employees of Qantas Airways Ltd who are members of the Flight Stewards Association. The Government has spent, through Qantas, a substantial amount of money on advertisements published in the United Kingdom. These advertisements depict a Qantas flight steward as a leering criminal in convict dress beneath the headline 'Can you identify an Australian steward by bis uniform?'. The employees concerned are excellent ambassadors for Australia wherever they go. This has been borne out time and time again in cases before the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. They are an asset to 
Australia's national airline. In fact they are employees who should be respected. It is repugnant that any Australian employer should seek advantage by holding his employees up to public ridicule and contempt. That applies even more so in respect of a statutory authority. I wonder whether the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney)  is prepared to comment, on behalf of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on that aspect as well as the other aspect of the advertisement, that is, putting undue emphasis on the beer swilling aspect of Australia's public image. 
The question of dues has arisen also. If any people responding to those advertisements expect to get free beer on a Qantas economy flight ticket they are in for a shock. Passengers with economy class Qantas tickets do not get free beer as do such passengers on certain other international airlines. Whilst I am on this subject, it has been announced by the International Air Transport Association, which has 108 members, that it has given up its authority to regulate inflight meals, drinks and entertainment and will henceforth confine itself to such non-competitive matters as safety standards, security and ticket exchange arrangements. Can the Minister tell the Senate whether Qantas intends to make the beer really flow free on economy class, as some other airlines do, and, what is more important, make no charge for in-flight services such as the provision of earphones and the like. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
First, I wish to place on record my objection to legislation of this nature being brought into the Senate on the last day of the session. It is not the first time that this has occurred. When the substantial amendments were made to the Trade Practices Act in 1977 they were made on 2 June 1977, the last day of the autumn session. It can be seen from the  Hansard  report that debate in the Committee stage on that amending legislation was truncated. The Bill was declared an urgent Bill, and there was no debate. As far as I can see from a quick reading of  Hansard  and from my recollection there was no opportunity for amendments to be moved to the Government's Bill at that time. I certainly was concerned about that legislation. I believed that there would be unpredictable consequences flowing from the Government's amendments to the Trade Practices Act as introduced in 1977 insofar as they pertained to the new section 45D. What those amendments did was incorporate into an Act which essentially ensures free competition, a provision which is designed to interfere with the industrial relations processes that are the preserve of other Acts of this Parliament, principally the Commonwealth Conciliation and 
Arbitration Act. Having said that, history has proven that since 1977 there have been unpredictable consequences. 
It was said at the time that there would not be an intention on the pan of the Government to act without consultation. As  Senator Messner  has just said, the Trade Practices Commission itself in its report has adverted to the need to ensure that matters of industrial relations receive consideration elsewhere before the Commission takes action. I will read from what the Trade Practices Commission said in its fourth annual report, which was for the year ended 30 June 1978. On page 1 1 of the report, the Trade Practices Commission had this to say: 
The Commission has not so far instituted any court proceedings under section  45d.  There has, however, been a degree of success from arrangements made with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the National Employers Industrial Council that they will consider whether they can secure the lifting of a boycott or threatened boycott before the Commission considers court proceedings. 
That is all very well so far as the Commission is concerned. What is complained of and what is causing grave concern to both the employers nationally and the trade union movement nationally, and to each of those organisations in each of the States, is the maverick-type action that is being taken by individual employers, utilising the provisions of section 45D to obtain for themselves an unfair advantage. That, of course, is quite contrary to the spirit of the Trade Practices Act as a whole. 
The principles behind the Trade Practices Act are generally unexceptionable; they are accepted by all parties throughout Australia generally, except those firms that wish to have monopoly control of certain commodities. By and large, the principle that there should be fair trading and fair competition and that situations in which there is unfair competition or unfair advantage should not arise is generally accepted. The fact remains that because of its provisions section 45D is being used by certain firms to achieve an unfair advantage. Let me give an example of that. It is not for me to deal with certain cases that are currently before the courts. I do not know whether it is desirable for me to address myself to that matter. Let me give a hypothetical example so that people will be able to understand what I am talking about: Firm A is employing union labour, is honouring its awards both in spirit and in the letter, is enabling the union to go into the plant, is ensuring that safety, health and welfare provisions and procedures are followed and is able to ensure that there is proper consultation between the management and the employees so that the employees are not unfairly disadvantaged. Firm B is a shop that is non-unionised, cheats on the employees, does not permit the union organisers to come in and address the employees or do some problem solving, and has conditions which are quite unsafe and quite untenable. They are tenable only in this time of unemployment because the people concerned are too frightened for their jobs to do anything about it. 
Those two firms are in a position where one firm has an unfair competitive advantage over the other. Firm B, by virtue of its anti-union stance, has an unfair competitive advantage over Firm A. What does the union attempt to do in that circumstance? It attempts- and is entitled to do so, in my view- in Firm C not to accept the goods from Firm B. That, of course, is a classic secondary boycott under the provisions of section 45D. Of course, because the employees of Firm C are not employed by Firm B the exemption provisions so far as wages and working conditions are concerned just do not apply. So, Firm B is using the provisions of the Trade Practices Act to obtain an unfair advantage. I believe that the Government did not foresee that that would take place. I believe that that was an unpredictable circumstance. I believe that it is important for the Government to recognise that the Act is being used in that way. I ask the Government to have consultations with the national employers and the trade union movement in order to ensure that the Act is not used in that way. 
Admittedly, most of the actions that have been taken, as has been said before in the debate, have been taken by mavericks; but I know of one instance in which a small employer is taking the action and employing solicitors who are briefing Q.Cs, and that employer is being backed up by a very large company. That action is now taking place. I am not going to say who it is at the present moment. I will do so after the case is concluded. I will do it publicly, outside this place. I do not think it is proper, as  Senator Elstob  said, when a whole lot of academics intrude their airyfairy ideas into the field of industrial relations. The net result of this type of action, taken under this piece of legislation, is that the only ones to win out, of course, are members of the legal fraternity. It does nothing for the advancement of industrial relations in this country. 
I go further and say- if the message was not clear from what  Senator Elstob  said, I will say it quite clearly- that the abuse of the Trade Practices Act for that purpose is going to throw the nation into confrontation. It is going to throw those within the unions who do not believe in confrontation against government, but who believe that the union is there to get the best deal possible for its members with the least cost to them and the community, into the fold of those extremists within the trade union movement who believe that the trade union movement can be use as a political battering ram. The Government has to realise that that will be the case. I would like to quote from an article written by Peter Westmore in the  Quadrant  of May 1977 just before the amendments to the Trade Practices Act which included the insertion of new section 45d. The article reads: 
Neither governments, nor industrial tribunals, have yet found an effective way of legislating against political strikes, without facing the prospect of massive resistance from the trade union movement. Legislation such as the amendments to the Trade Practices Act and the Arbitration Act, now before Federal Parliament, have aroused opposition across the whole trade union spectrum, because they restrict legitimate trade union activity, as well as abusers of union 's power. The only restraint on the misuse of power by an individual union is the possibility of isolation from the rest of the trade union movement, and the possibility of government action (e.g. deregistration) against the union. 
I agree with those remarks. My worry is that if the Government goes ahead with this addition to section 4Sd it will be faced with unpredictable consequences. Who knows, as a result of this amendment we may witness the bloodshed which was referred to by  Senator Elstob  as being just around the corner. What is required is a sensitive, intelligent and co-ordinated approach to this problem amongst people of goodwill and people who desire to see the system of industrial relations work in this country. It has already been said by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the national employers that the Trade Practices Act is not, and should not be, the vehicle for the settlement of industrial disputes. There needs to be a co-ordinated approach to this matter between all those people who desire to see the industrial relations system work and those who desire to isolate the minority groups within the employers organisations and the trade union movement which are out for confrontation. 
I remind the Government that ultimately the success of the system depends on the respect that the participants in the system have for the federal court. The federal court has the overview of the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which imposes certain requirements on registered employer and employee organisations. It is to the federal court that the rank and file unionist has ultimate recourse to ensure that the rules of an organisation are not unreasonable, oppressive and unjust. It is to the federal court that the union itself ultimately has recourse to ensure the protection of its eligibility rule, its constitution rule. 
If the federal court is demeaned in the eyes of the participants to the conciliation and arbitration system, as it could be by the statements of a senior judge of that court such as we heard this week, the  Government  and those within the industrial relations system who want to see it work are really in trouble. It is that court which ultimately will have to determine whether or not a union should retain its registration. I believe that the statements which came from  Mr Justice  Smithers could have been said only because the Government has put laws on the statute books which are untenable. I leave the Government with the thought that ultimately if respect for the federal court is demeaned in the eyes of the participants of the industrial relations system, the action that it may legitimately have to take to deregister a union which has persistently confronted the Government and the rest of the trade union movement in the community will also be demeaned, and that will be a tragic day for Australia. 
I present the following petition from 100 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments "that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate" is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to:- 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of Average Weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Justice delayed is justice denied. That timehonoured legal principle deserves recognition during the current controversy over the indexation of pensions. How often I have used that particular principle in negotiations with employers and before wages tribunals. It has equal force when consideration is being given to the question of indexation of pensions for price rises. No one would deny openly the right of pensioners to have their modest pensions adjusted to keep pace with increased costs as reflected by increases in the consumer price index. The question is: How frequently should the adjustments be made? For years I have made no bones about where I stand on this question. Increases in prices are recorded by the Australian Bureau of Statistics and announced every three months. Pensions and benefits should be adjusted quarterly and the increases paid back to the beginning of the first month of each quarter. The records of the Senate of 27 April 1976 show that I moved a resolution to that effect. Sadly, the records of the Senate also show that my resolution received no support. No other senator was prepared even to second that resolution. 
To be fair, it is a different story now. There is substantial discontent with the annual indexation proposition contained in the Budget last year and subsequently introduced by amendments to the Act. There seems little likelihood of quarterly adjustments of pensions and benefits ever being achieved because of the attitude of both major parties. However, there is hope that twice-yearly indexation will be restored, and so it should be. The bread man, the milk man, the owner of the supermarket, the rent collectornone of these will hang about for 15 months waiting to be paid for their increased prices. 
Yes, it is 16 months. As at the present moment, pensions and benefits are adjusted every November for movements in the consumer price index for the 12 months ending on 30 June of that particular year. So there is already a catch-up period of four months in addition to the 12 months during which the pensioners have had to pay the increases without compensation. We are discussing this evening an urgency motion which states: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The restoration by the Government of twice yearly indexation for all pensions and benefits under the Social Security and Repatriation systems. 
It is a matter of urgency. It is a matter of public importance, and I was concerned that  Senator Grimes,  when introducing the matter of urgency, took time out, in my view undeservedly, to take the mickey out of members of the back bench of the Government in the House of Representatives for action that they are taking to achieve this effect. I ask: Did not their action contribute to the urgency of this matter? Did not their action contribute to the heightening of the public importance of this matter? Of course it did, and in my judgment it is totally unfair to chyack these members for attempting to reverse the situation and achieve twice-yearly indexation. It is also not in accordance with the facts. It has been suggested that the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  will not proceed with his Bill. I have not heard him say that. I suggest that if back bench members of the Government are prepared to stick their necks out on this particular matter they should not be chyacked, they should be supported and wished all the best. I remind  Senator Grimes  that people in glass houses should not cast stones. 
I again remind the Senate that the resolution I put down on 27 April 1976 taking account of the principle that justice delayed is justice denied was not supported by  Senator Grimes  or by any other senator in this place. Indeed, I found that quite surprising, because similar attempts to mine had been made over a number of years to have pensions made retrospective to an appropriate date consistent with the application to wages of an increase in the consumer price index, which at that particular time which was quarterly.  Senator Tangney  in 1964 moved such an amendment. She moved it again in 1966.  Senator Toohey  moved such an amendment in 1967.  Senator Fitzgerald  moved it in 1968 and  Senator Poke  in 1969. When  Senator Harradine  moved such an amendment in 1976 it did not get the support of the Australian Labor Party. If amendments which have some merit in them are moved, surely they ought to receive support no matter who moves them, and that is my attitude in respect of the back bench members who are seeking the restoration of twice-yearly indexation. 
If parliamentarians have personal vested interests in legislation they should declare them. On this issue I declare a vested interest in the 51,800 Tasmanian pensioners who are my constituents, 38,085 of whom are age pensioners. In addition, I, along with a lot of others, have a personal vested interest in the matter. I declare that both my parents are age pensioners, and they are typical of most age pensioners who scraped and saved to raise families through the economically difficult Depression, war and post-war years. There were no mod cons in those times. It was the era of scrubbing boards, coppers, bag freezers, and the rabbit trapping and wood carting to make ends meet. They were hard times but happy times. The pensioners are the last to complain but they deserve priority in the considerations and support of the rest of us for whom they sacrificed so much. In any event they have always paid their taxes and they are entitled to a realistic pension, frequently adjusted to keep up with prices. Of course, money is not everything. Consideration, recognition and, indeed, honour is due to our aged loved ones. A civilisation is judged, amongst other tests, on how it treats its aged and infirm. It is for us to ensure that the judgment of history is not harsh when this test is made on our own civilisation. 
I turn to another important point. In periods of high unemployment such as we are experiencing now. positive incentives are required to encourage early retirement of those who wish to phase themselves into the new, for them, lifestyle of retirement. But the pensionable age, the rigid income test, the taking into consideration of moneys received from superannuation funds to which people were obliged to contribute when they worked and now the annual indexation of pensions are disincentives for a person to retire. I support the proposition that this is a matter of public importance, that it is a matter of urgency. I do so on the principle that if we delay justice any further, then justice will be denied for that period of time. 
Sitting suspended from  5.58  to  8  p.m. 

 - Mr Deputy President, it is unusual for anyone to get up twice in an adjournment debate. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Harradine,  I can permit you to speak briefly only on a matter of a misrepresentation. 
It is a matter of misrepresentation,  Mr Deputy President.  If these matters were in any way connected with Commonwealth funds, they would be the property of the Senate. 
I have just been challenged,  Mr Deputy President,  and I seek leave to state my point of view. I will not have the opportunity of doing so tomorrow night. 
That is not your business. I simply make the point- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! Leave is not required on a matter of misrepresentation.  Senator Harridine,  do you claim to have been misrepresented? 
I do claim to have been misrepresented. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I ask you to speak briefly to that point only. 
I will. A claim has been made and the burden of the claim is that funds were paid for the purpose of transfer to a Commonwealth authority. That is not so. It has nothing to do with Commonwealth funds and therefore has nothing to do with the Senate. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Harradine  claims to have been misrepresented. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Senator Harradine  you may continue with your claim. 
That is the point,  Mr Deputy President.  It has nothing to do with Commonwealth funds or Commonwealth instrumentalities. It has everything to do with the Education Department in Tasmania. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That in the opinion of the Senate the following is a matter of urgency: 
The post-Depression record levels of unemployment and the failure to face the social as well as economic aspects of the problem. ' 
I make no apologies for placing this matter before the Senate as a matter of urgency. The question of unemployment has attracted only one urgency motion in the last 12 months. I believe that on this the first occasion after record postDepression unemployment figures have been posted it is necessary for the Senate to give its attention, if only for three hours, to this very pressing issue. I raise it not in anger but in the hope that the debate will produce some informed and unemotional contributions which will go to the heart of the matter. The motion is deliberately worded. It does not say 'the failure of the Government to face the social as well as economic aspects of the problem'. I believe that the Government is only one of the parties which have failed to do so. 
The community is looking for answers. More and more people are becoming concerned with unemployment and its growth. These are not just the unemployed, the parents of teenagers looking for work, one of the family of the breadwinner out of work or one of the growing number genuinely concerned that the danger lights are already flashing; the concern is widespread throughout the community. It is justly placed. What did we see last Friday? We saw an announcement by the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  that nationally almost 500,000 persons are registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service as seeking full time jobs. I emphasise the words 'full time'. In my State of Tasmania the figure topped the 15,000 mark for the first time. In Tasmania 15,344 persons are registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service as seeking full time work. 
In South Australia there are 45,000 of them. I do not denigrate for one moment the work of the officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service or the Minister. Indeed, in my State the Commonwealth Employment Service has had a successful job search campaign. But they would be the first to admit that job search is no substitute for job creation. What happened after the announcement of those record unemployment figures? We had the usual spate of statements that full employment would return when the economy came good. That has been repeated again this week. Depending on who made the statement, it is all the fault of the Government or it has all been the fault of the Opposition, the unions or the multinationals. These things are only partly true. The whole truth is not being told and, therefore, is not being faced. 
Simply stated, the problem is that there are more people in paid employment or seeking paid employment than there are jobs at a time when new job creation continues to be slashed by technological change. Unless we realise that the problem has a social aspect as well as an economic aspect I believe that Australia will have more than one million permanently unemployed by the mid-1980s.  (Quorum formed). 
The current preoccupation with economic solutions alone will not overcome the problem. It is not that a concentration on the economic attack is not warranted. Of course it is warranted to reduce inflation. Of course problems arose in the 1973-74 period. Preoccupation with the economic aspects alone will not reduce and has not reduced the problem. Do not forget that in the last five years unemployment has increased more than five times. In a position paper the Australian Council of Trade Unions indicated the enormity of the problem if only the economic aspect is considered. The position paper that was forwarded to affiliated unions for discussion and comment- I will refer to it in detail later- when referring to unemployment had this to say: 
The reality is that with the level of unemployment expected to soar past the 500,000 mark in February 1 979, the task of bringing down unemployment will be extremely difficult. The appropriate reaction may therefore involve harder options, more effective concentrated union activity and changed priorities within our objectives. 
Then the ACTU position paper continues: 
The medium term prospects for the Australian economy are bleak. We face an environment where at least 700,000 new jobs need to be found over the next seven years even if we were concerned simply to contain unemployment at existing high levels. 
Achievement of a two per cent unemployment rate by 1984-85 requires an output growth rate of between six per cent to seven per cent each year for the next seven years- a growth rate twice our historical average and almost three times as great as our most recent experience. 
The biggest percentage of the unemployed is made up of young people. We hear people say that they are a lot of dole bludgers and that anybody who wants work can get it. That is just not true. Certainly some of the unemployed, and some other people as well, could not work in an iron lung. There are certain groups amongst the unemployed who are politically exploiting the unemployed but they are in a minority. Just ask any parent with a school-leaver daughter. With the labour market over supplied and new jobs being taken by automation, including word processors, teenage girls are the hardest, and will be the hardest to place in jobs. Of all the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries, next to Italy Australia has the highest unemployment rate amongst people under the age of 24 years. It is not only the ACTU that expresses concern.  Mr George  Polites, director of the National Employers Consultative Council, said this last year: 
If this situation is allowed to continue for any extended period, the economic costs will pale into insignificance compared to the price we will eventually pay in terms of social, economic and political disruption and dislocation. 
Faced with this gloomy outlook, would you,  Mr Deputy President,  allow jobs to be destroyed by the wholesale application of automation and technological change? Would you force people to stay in the paid work force when they have good reasons to be out of the very jobs which could be taken by the unemployed? That is precisely what is happening and nothing is being done about it. Too many people at both State and Federal government level worship at the altar of automation. For example, the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Lowe,  had this to say so far as automation was concerned at the recent computer conference. I did not believe this until I picked it up in the media. Under the heading Computers Worth Job Cost', the Premier was reported as follows: 
The Premier,  Mr Lowe,  yesterday supported the development of computer technology- even at the cost of losing jobs. 

 Mr Lowe said it was beyond dispute that computers replaced labour. But to discourage computer industry could also now make unemployment worse. 
On Tuesday, 20 February, the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee),  said: 
No one pretends that there are not problems inherent in the introduction of new technology. 
He went on to say: 
The solution to these problems does not, however, lie in delaying technological progress. Feelings of fear, insecurity and pessimism, while understandable emotions, must not be allowed to cloud people's judgment, or make them lose sight of the positive and inevitable advantages of technological change. 
He then made this bold statement: 
Put simply, more jobs are put at risk by failing to introduce new and innovative technology than by grasping the nettle and ensuring that we keep abreast of technological innovation. 
I am the last person to put my head in the sand on the question of technology, technological change and automation. Many years ago when I was involved with the Federated Clerks Union, its Federal  President, Mr J.  P. Maynes- he is still Federal  President-  was the first person to see the problems that would emerge as a result of automation and technological change, particularly in the computer area. He laid down a plan which was later adopted by the trade union movement but, unfortunately, not put into effect overall. That plan included the establishment of a technological change committee which would monitor the application of technological change to ensure that the change was for the good, both industrially and socially. 
No doubt in response the Minister will point to the establishment by the Minister for Productivity of a committee of inquiry into technological change. That is too late. Let that committee go ahead but let there be some committee with powers, both in the States and federally, to call a halt to the wholesale application of technological change in those industries which do not have to compete overseas. Admittedly, industries which must compete overseas must keep abreast of change. However, in the Public Service and in the banking and insurance industries, for example, why go to the length of introducing word processors which destroy the jobs of 22,000 people? Ah, but no existing employee will lose her job, assure the heads of the Public Service departments and those in the banking industry. Sure, but those thousands of jobs are denied forever to the young school-leavers. This is the very thing that has closed off many thousands of job opportunities in other fields over the last ten years. Why not call a halt to the introduction of job destroying technology in the public services and in at least those industries which do not have to compete overseas so that the social and economic costs can be fully considered? The committee established by the Minister for Productivity is not empowered to do that. 
Last year while overseas I visited a supermarket being run by seven people- five in the front and two at the back. An equivalent supermarket in Australia would employ from 60 to 80 people. The customer uses a metal disc to register items taken off the shelf which automatically refills and the bill falls out of the computer into the hands of the solitary check-out cashier. As  President  of the Shop Distributive and Allied Employees Association, I give honourable senators the assurance that that sort of thing will not be permitted in our area until we are certain that it is necessary for the good of the whole community. We should be supported in that effort. 
What are the other social problems? While there are more people in or seeking employment than there are jobs the unemployment level will remain high. There is a simple answer- reduce the number of people seeking work. Over 43 per cent of all married women are in the paid work force. Most recent surveys have shown that most of them have been forced there through economic pressures. Indeed, the results of the surveys that are available to me indicate quite clearly that this is the case. Why not give those people the option of leaving the paid work force if they wish? No person should be compelled to leave the paid work force; nor should any person be discriminated against. There should be a true freedom of choice. But that freedom of choice is not available to the vast number of married women with dependent children who are forced into the work force through the economic circumstances. Nor should any family be forced, by economic or other reasons, to have both partners of a marriage working in the paid work force if that is to the detriment of the family. These are the issues that should be raised and raised in a logical, unemotional fashion so they can be examined. Let us look at the results of the surveys that have been undertaken. There is no time, in speaking to this urgency motion, to detail the results of all of those surveys that have been undertaken, but they are available to the Government, to the trade union movement, and to the employers. Why not consider the lifting of family allowances and the payment of a realistic homemakers allowance which would relieve the economic pressure and provide an opportunity for thousands of married women to leave the paid work force? Their jobs, theoretically, could be taken by the unemployed, who this year will be paid almost $1 billion in unemployment benefit. It has been estimated that if only  9  per cent of the married women in the work force responded to this opportunity there would be no teenage unemployment. Of course, there are other factors which influence an employer to employ a mature person rather than a teenager. 
One of the problems, of course, is the problem of a lack of education. It was interesting to note that last year the Council for Adult Literacy asserted that in Tasmania there were likely to be 50,000 illiterates. As a Tasmanian I would assume that that figure, in percentage terms, would be greater in other States. Before that the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Specific Learning Difficulties released the details of a survey that showed that more than half the nation's illiterates were between 15 and 25 years of age, that 25 per cent of the 14-year-olds tested could not cope with reading a newspaper and that only 18 per cent of the 10-year-olds tested were able to transcribe a passage of 48 words without errors of spelling or facts. 
If these claims were only half true it would be a damning indictment of" those trendies who have substituted educational fairy floss for the achievement of basic skills. Honourable senators know the type. They dish up to their students material in which fact and opinion are inexplicably mixed and they do so at a stage in the lives of those students when they are incapable of judging the validity of either. The net result is that many students leave school actually knowing very little and full of half-baked opinions about what they do not know. We have a situation now where some people are saying as was said during the Hamer employment conference, that we should be educating people for unemployment. I was amused at the response made by  Mr Polites  when he said: 
At this point I think I should say something about the view being expressed in some circles that with lower economic growth and consequently fewer employment opportunities being created, educational institutions should begin 'educating people for unemployment'. Let me say that there is nothing new about this . . . 
Let me make it perfectly clear that these are the minority but concern must be expressed. 
As well as giving married women a true freedom of choice, my suggestion would do something for the population. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr MacPhee)  quite rightly has said that Australian industry already faces enormous competitive pressures in both domestic and export markets. He has made the point that we have a small domestic market. We need to look at just where we are going with our population rate. We need to encourage a greater number of people in this country in both senses of the word. Again I ask: Why not look at the question of changing the hours of work? Why not look at the question of phasing in to retirement those people who desire to retire and prepare them for the new lifestyle that, for them, retirement presents? 
Instead, so often we hear panaceas being prattled to the Press, such as panaceas about sharing the work, extending trading hours and abolishing penalty rates. 
Work sharing. These are panaceas and they should be exposed as such. I still have not received the assurance that I sought from the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs that his undertaking to the employers that he would support them in a reexamination of the penalty rates situation would not result in casualisation and moonlighting of the industries mentioned. I have a reply to that question, but nowhere in the reply is that assurance given. It is an assurance that surely must be given before any realistic approach to the problem can be expected. The Minister may say that there has been established by the National Labour Consultative Council a committee under the chairmanship of  Mr Trethowan,  to examine the effects on the labour market in Australia, with particular reference to young people, of the following factors: The effect of particular aspects on unemployment of labour costs such as penalty rates, rates of pay for juniors, other labour costs affecting the employment of young people and so on. The union representatives on that committee justifiably say that its considerations are preempted by the bias of the terms of reference. I will give one figure for consideration. My union in Victoria, the Shop, Distributive and Allied Employees Association, has done its homework and research, and since the extended trading hours pattern came into effect in Victoria 10,000 permanent jobs have been destroyed. Let us as a Senate raise this issue. Let us ensure that, as well as the economic factors and the drive for overseas exports, those social aspects are also considered. Unless we do that, the problems of unemployment will not go away, they will only increase. 
I hope not to delay the Senate very long, and I regret having to do so at all. Last night  Senator O  'Byrne sought unsuccessfully to involve the Senate in the now 12-year-old attempt by the pro-communist Left forces and their political quislings to capture control of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council.  Senator O  'Byrne has long been the Canberra mouthpiece for these forces, and last night he slavishly played his part in the relentless campaign of vilification, innuendo and character assassination of the TTLC officers, past and present. The childish whisperings by the friends of  Senator O  'Byrne suggesting that I used education funds for my Senate campaign are laughable. Indeed, I cannot find a single correct statement in  Senator O  'Byrne's speech. To suggest that funds provided since 1973 by the State Government specifically for trade union education for all unions and associations in Tasmania should somehow be part of TTLC funds shows his ignorance of the basis upon which the funds were provided originally. It is also a reflection on respected trade union leaders, both present and former officials of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council and the State Branch of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 

 Senator O 'Byrne's attempt to involve the Commonwealth Government by suggesting that the State Government's funds were intended for use by a Commonwealth authority, and that was the burden of what he was about, is plainly humbug. When the funds were sought early in 1973 and arrangements made, the Commonwealth instrumentality referred to by  Senator O  'Byrne, namely, the Trade Union Training Authority, did not even exist. Expenditure from the Tasmanian Trade Union Education Fund has been strictly in accordance with the purpose for which it was provided. It enabled the establishment of a professional training program, adequately staffed and equipped, the direction of which was ultimately taken over by the Commonwealth Trade Union Training Authority. Expenditure was provided only for those courses approved by successive training councils, upon which the State Education Minister was represented. To suggest that Doug Lowe sought information last year on the Tasmanian Trade Union Education Fund is just not true.  His  inquiry related to TUTA and was passed on to it. Why would  Mr Lowe  seek such information on the Tasmanian fund activities when the information is readily available through the proper channels of the State Education Department which provided the funds? Those honourable senators who are trade unionists will find it most noteworthy that the politically inspired attacks emanate from those people who have not lifted a finger to help in what surely must be regarded as the most successful trade union training program of its size in the whole of Australia. But, of course, the issues go far deeper. Those of us who are aware of the issues know why the attacks have been made when clearly all of the information is available through the appropriate and proper channels. The funds are taxpayers' funds, not part of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council's funds. 
The real issue is the attempt by members of the pro-communist Left to undermine the central authority of the trade union movement in Tasmania. Their aim now is also to capture control of the accumulated funds of the Tasmanian trade union education account, which they know contains considerable amounts of money, and to build their own counter course of political indoctrination. That is what the matter is all about. They seek to obtain these funds to establish a counter training course of political indoctrination not subject, as the present courses are subject, to rigorous scrutiny by bodies upon which the State Education Department is represented. 
Furthermore, it is an attempt by the local socialist Left controllers of the Tasmanian Branch of the Australian Labor Party to flex their muscles to see just how far members of parliament and Ministers are prepared to ingratiate themselves in order to obtain parliamentary preselection at the end of this week. They are prepared to use their parliamentary quislings, including  Senator O  'Byrne and the gang of four. Incidentally,  Mr MacKinnon,  M.H.A., is the leader of the gang of four and one of the enforcers of the Left controllers of the Tasmanian ALP. At the last election he received 656 votes out of a total enrolment of 51,886 voters. Honourable senators might ask how he was elected. He was elected on a recount. 
But, worse still, this action represents a veiled attack on successive State Labor governmentsthe Reece Government and the Neilson Government- which were instrumental in negotiating for trade union education. They knew that this was a means of ensuring a commonsense approach to industrial problems, which has been the policy of the leaders of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council for some years. 
I hope the  Hansard  reporter picked up that interjection. This is a diversion. It is totally laughable, as will be shown. I expect, but do not guarantee, that  Senator O'Byrne  will apologise to me and to the Senate in due course over that remark. This is a veiled attack on the type of Labor Government represented by  Mr Reece  and  Mr Neilson.  If the matter is followed through it will be a nail in the coffin of the current Labor Government. Honourable senators should bear that in mind. That is one of the more ominous aspects of this sort of attack. I do not propose to go into all the inaccuracies in  Senator O  'Byrne's statement. However, in conclusion, I say that one of the most contemptible of the misstatements made by  Senator O'Byrne  last evening was a personal one in which he stated: 
Normally I would have waited for him - 
That is for me- to be present but his attendances here are becoming less frequent. 
I have regard for someone far and above any person in the world. Tomorrow night if I have to leave this Parliament and go home in order to see that that person is taken to hospital to get treatment, I will do so. The  President  knows the situation. Let me leave that aspect to one side. Let me table for the information of the Senate a document which was prepared by the Senate Journals, Records and Bills Office on my attendance between 15 August 1978 and 28 February 1 979. It was given to me today. It states: 
I refer to a request from your office in regard to your attendance in the Senate between 15 August 1978 - 
That is the Budget sittings- and 28 February 1979. In this period there were 40 sitting days of the Senate of which you attended all but two days. 
I think that gives the lie to the last misstatement made by  Senator O'Byrne  last evening. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
1 ) Is there growing disquiet and unrest in the Defence Forces over fears that the Government intends to tax their commutation on retirement. 
Has the Minister's failure to extract a definite and positive denial from the Government increased those fears, so that many officers and senior non-commissioned officers of the Defence Forces are ready to resign if the Minister is not forthcoming with a firm and positive statement on the issue. 
Will the Minister issue a statement that the Government has no plans to tax commutation or to change a serviceman's commutation rights in any way whatsoever now, or in the future, thus preventing a spate of Defence Forces resignations and discharges, particularly amongst the longserving and highly skilled members, and the accompanying loss of experience and skills from our Armed Forces. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr Deputy President,  as a member of the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings. You will be aware of the great public interest in the motion on abortion funding to be debated in the other place probably on Wednesday, 2 1 March. In view of the fact that the debate might take place in the other place on a day when the proceedings of the Senate normally are broadcast will you arrange for your Committee to consider this matter and to suggest, if so desired, that a rearrangement of broadcast days for the next sitting week could be accommodated, depending upon the Senate being allotted an equivalent number of broadcast hours on either the Tuesday or the Thursday. 
No- j just keeping people honest. 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT-Consideration will be given to the suggestion made in  Senator Harradine  's question. 
-I move: 
That the Senate believes that the unjustly imprisoned members and affiliates of the Soviet Helsinki group should be granted their freedom and allowed to pursue their lawful activities on behalf of basic human rights without further harassment, and that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs should express at every suitable opportunity and in the strongest terms the opposition of Australia to the imprisonment of members of the Helsinki group. 
The names of Anotoly Schaharansky, Alexander Ginsburg and Yuri Orlov were household names throughout the world barely eight months ago. Are these names now forgotten in those homes? Though this motion was put down in the Senate on 24 May 1 978 after Orlov had received his sentence and before Shcharansky and Ginsburg had received theirs, nevertheless it is as relevant today as it was then- even more so. I remind the Senate of the significance both to human rights within the Soviet Union and to world peace and prosperity of this particular issue and these particular men. 
Anatoly Shcharansky who is now 31, a mathematician and computer engineer, had been unemployed since 1973, blackballed by the Soviet authorities from obtaining a job. Why? Because he had made an application to go to Israel and that application was turned down. With an excellent command of English, Shcharansky had been a one-man public relations organisation for the dissidents, arranging interviews for Western correspondents with the Helsinki monitors and often interpreting for Andre Sakharov, the dissident Nobel prize winning physicist. Shcharansky was also the link between Soviet Jews who wanted to leave the country and human rights advocates who wanted to reform their society. The Soviet Government's case against Shcharansky was unusual because it involved alleged United States subversion and espionage and because it led to  President  Carter's flat denial that Shcharansky had ever worked for US Intelligence. On 14 July 1978 Shcharansky was sentenced to 13 years imprisonment. Alexander Ginsburg, who is now 42 years of age, published an underground poetry journal in the late 1 950s. In 1978 he was arrested and sentenced to a labour camp for two years on charges of forging a certificate to take an examination for a friend. 
Later he served five years in a camp for 'AntiSoviet agitation and propaganda activities'. 
Until his third arrest in 1977, amongst a group of 20 other arrests, he administered a fund set up by exiled author Alexander Solzhenitsyn for royalties in Western countries from his book the  Gulag Archipelago  a study of the Stalinist labour camp system. Ginsburg said that the aim of the fund was to help political prisoners and their families.  His  arrest marked the opening Soviet shot at the Helsinki monitors. On 13 July last year, barely eight months ago, Ginsburg was sentenced to eight years of hard labour. Yuri Orlov, who is now 54 years of age, was the victim of the first major political prosecution after the Helsinki accords.  His  four-day trial, which ended only six days before I gave notice of this motion in the Senate- that is to say, it ended on 1 8 May 1978- brought him a sentence of seven years of hard labour and five years of internal exile for Anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda'. 
Orlov, Ginsburg, Shcharansky and six others formed the Helsinki monitoring groups in May 1 976. They took care to work within Soviet laws. They published reports on subjects such as prison conditions, abuses of psychiatry for political aims, restrictions on travel and tampering with mail. In support of that I refer to what  Dr David  Owen, the Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom, had to say four days after the trial of Shcharansky and Ginsburg concluded. In an official text headed 'Helsinki Final Act: Foreign Secretary's Statement' and released on 24 July 1 978,  Dr Owen  said: 
In Principle VII signatory States of the Final Act recognised that individuals have the right to note and act upon their rights and duties in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Since the conclusion of the Belgrade conference, ten members of Helsinki monitoring groups operating in the Soviet Union have been put on trial, on various charges including malicious hooliganism, anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda and treason. 
This has raised the total number of group members - 
That is Helsinki monitoring group members- who have been on trial to 1 S. Three more are in detention. Though the indictments did not mention the Helsinki monitoring groups as such, action against these people appears to be related to their activities in monitoring the implementation of the provisions of the Final Act and drawing attention to instances of non-implementation of human rights provisions. 
In addition, there have been further cases since Belgrade of distinguished Soviet citizens who have been deprived of their citizenship while travelling abroad. 
The Foreign Secretary,  Dr Owen,  points out: 
The United Nations Declaration of Human Rights which is specifically endorsed in Principle VII of the Final Act recognises the right of all individuals to leave and return to their country. 
As indicated by the Foreign Secretary's statement, the imprisonment of Shcharansky, Ginsburg and Orlov is only the tip of the iceberg. Indeed, one recalls the many thousands of people who have been subjected to loss of human rights simply because they chose to note or attempted to note the infringements by the Soviet Union of human rights. It extends to the whole of Eastern Europe. I think the world is fortunate that a great son of Poland is now Pope John Paul II. He has described communism as systematic atheism'. We have the Polish groups, the Czechoslovakian groups and the Baltic groups. Typical of these groups is the Lithuanian Helsinki monitoring group. A member of that group, Viktoras Petkus, was also condemned during the week ended 14 July 1978- the same week as Shcharansky and Ginsburg were sentenced- and sentenced to three years of hard labour at a special regime camp, followed by seven years in prison labour camp and five years in Siberian exile. Petkus 's only crime was to draw the attention of the authorities to documented cases of gross violation of the human rights clauses of the Helsinki Agreement. 
In addition, other human rights violations occur against those who are attempting to ensure their rights as free trade unionists- a matter which is close to my field of activity. On 26 April 1978 I sought to have adopted, and was successful in having adopted, by the Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council a resolution which called upon the Commonwealth Government and the State Government to raise these issues with the International Labour Organisation. I drew attention to the fact that in early 1978 attempts by Soviet workers to organise themselves into trade unions free from control of the state had been met by severe repressive measures by the Soviet Government. Indeed, in 1977 at the ILO conference the committee of experts in its report on the application of conventions and recommendations expressed its reservations concerning the freedom of workers in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to organise as provided by ILO Convention No. 87 of 1948, which is the freedom of association and protection of the right to organise convention. Discussion on that report of the committee of experts was thwarted in the plenary session of the ILO by procedural manoeuvres by totalitarian countries resulting in the absence of a quorum, thus preventing a decision from being made. The committee of experts had requested the Soviet Union to give further consideration to its report as a prelude to the matter again coming before the ILO. Indeed, this morning  Senator Lajovic  pointed out that this matter was still a matter of great concern to the ILO. He asked a question which was answered by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street.  The Guardian  of 4 March 1979 had this to say: 
The Soviet Union has warned the International Labor Organisation against investigating charges that it has harassed self-proclaimed trade unions and it imprisoned their leaders. A letter from Moscow, discussed here last week - 
That is, in Geneva:  by a special ILO committee, says that such an investigation would be 'illegal and inadmissible'. 
The letter hopes that the ILO 'will take measures to avoid involving the organisation in a dubious political campaign and which could gravely prejudice the activity of the organisation in the effective defence of the interests and rights of workers'. 
The nine-member ILO committee on freedom of association meets regularly to consider alleged violations against the ILO Convention 87, which concerns the right to form a union of one 's own choosing. At a private session the committee decided to reject the Russian reply. Its report recommends that the Soviet Government be asked about 'allegations that it would be legally impossible to establish in the USSR a trade union independent of the State and the party'. 
It also recommends asking for information on the whereabouts of five founding members of the union of Free Soviet Workers whose formation was announced in Moscow at the beginning of last year. Two international trade union organisations- the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) and the World Confederation of Labour (WCL)- have alleged that the Soviet Government had disbanded the organisation and gaoled its leaders. These are named as Vladimir Klebanov, Valentin Poplavsky, Gabriel Yankov, Eugene Nikolaiev and Fyodor Dvortsky 
One recalls the statement made by Alexander Solzhenitsyn that 'in our country since the revolution there has never been such a thing as a free trade union'. We do not have to go far afield to get evidence of this because one of the most interesting aspects of the work of this Parliament is its committees. The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence SubCommittee on Human Rights in the Soviet Union which was chaired by  Senator John  Wheeldon had before it on 14 April 1978 a person named Leonid Plyushch. Leonid Plyushch is a well known Ukranian research mathematician and socialist. He gave evidence to the SubCommittee concerning the formation of trade unions.  Mr Plyushch  had this to say: 
Workers have formed an independent trade union but the initiators have already been arrested. Khlebrikov is in a psychiatric prison. Unless the labour movement and Labor Parties in the free world support this workers' movement, within a couple of years it will also be suppressed. I consider a political campaign for the rights of trade unions independent of the Soviet Government to be one of the chief priorities for the present day. 
To return to the Helsinki group and the associated denials of what we regarded as the minimum of rights and freedom of association and freedom of speech, one asks why the KGB operates to quash any sign by anyone to exert his rights. One of the reasons is that the Soviet system is frightened of the truth. Again I refer to  Solzhenitsyn's  famous address in Washington on 30 June 1 975 in which he said: 
When many lies have accumulated over the decades we forget the radical and basic lie which is not on the leaves of the tree but at its very roots. The system in fact is based on a lie. 
But for the free world there is an even greater problem. The Helsinki accords were agreements reached between nations. One must search for an explanation of the action of the Soviet Union in breaching those agreements by punishing the very people who were grouped together to monitor the implementation of the agreements. For that explanation, I refer to what Andrei Sakharov had to say: 
The repression, accordingly, can be called a bureaucratic reflex. In the USSR the mechanistic soullessness of political persecution makes it especially cruel and unjust, particularly when little known people are its objects. 
He then goes on to say something that is very significant for the free world. 
At present, however, the KGB 'Brains trust' seems to me to be pursuing an even wider aim. By arresting Helsinki Watch members and sentencing some of them with a cruelty no one could fail to notice, the Soviet authorities were issuing a defiant challenge to the Western Helsinki signatories and Belgrade meeting participants. 
So says Andrei Sakharov. What is the free world saying? More importantly, what is it doing? Because of the terms of the motion I am limiting my comments to the Soviet Helsinki group members and not dealing with groups in other Eastern European countries. After they were tried, convicted and sentenced, there was a barrage of words but very little action. Certainly the heavy sentences and the action of the Soviet authorities deserved and received condemnation throughout the world; but with no practical results. Those men are still languishing in Soviet prisons. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  just before the trial of Ginsburg and Shcharansky, did issue a statement on 1 1 July 1978 condemning the action proposed to be taken by the Soviet authorities. The Press statement is as follows: 

 Mr Peacock said that the Australian Embassy in Moscow was following developments at the Shcharansky and Ginsburg trials closely. A representative of the Embassy was part of the group representing many Western Embassies which had travelled to Kaluga in a vain attempt to attend the Ginsburg trial. 
Further on it is stated: 

 Mr Peacock appealed to the Soviet leadership to demonstrate a greater sensitivity to the widespread concern for guarantees of fundamental human rights evident in today's world. 
On 20 July 1978 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  issued a statement on the program for the observance of the thirtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, six days after Shcharansky was sentenced. The statement is as follows: 

 Mr Fraser observed that this anniversary comes at a time when there is growing international recognition of the importance of fundamental human rights. The world-wide outcry in recent days against the trials of Soviet dissidents, and the harsh sentences imposed on them, is a clear demonstration of this and serves to bring home the importance of doing all we can to promote understanding of, and adherence to, the principles expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
We in Australia, he said, have a record on human rights we can be justly proud of and over the years successive Australian governments have actively contributed to the work of the United Nations in the promotion and protection of internationally recognised human rights. Australia commenced a three-year term on the UN Commission on Human Rights at the beginning of this year. 
The matter had of course received the attention of members of the Senate and members of the House of Representatives. For example, on 24 May 1978  Senator Missen  asked  Senator Carrick,  the Minister representing the Prime Minister, a question without notice concerning the trial of  Dr Yuri  Orlov and a possible boycott of the 1980 Olympic Games as a consequence. The Prime Minister supplied the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In an earlier answer the Government 's deep concern at the recent trial and harsh sentence imposed on  Dr Orlov  was made clear. The Government has also deplored the trials and sentencing of other courageous men and women associated with the human rights movement in the Soviet Union. We have made our views clear to the Soviet authorities, both publicly and privately, and will continue to do so. 
The question of Australia's participation in a particular Olympic Games is not one for the Government to determine. It is a matter for the Australian Olympic Federation. However, as far as the Government is concerned, we are conscious of the fact that the 1980 Moscow Olympics will bring large numbers of athletes and other visitors from all over the world, thereby exposing the Soviet Union to greater contact with liberal values and standards of political rights. This is a view shared by other Western governments. 
One can argue one way or the other on whether the Olympic Games will be used by the Soviet Union as Hitler used the Olympic Games in Berlin before the war. Indeed, I have pointed out before that the organising secretary of the Moscow Olympic Games appointed by the Soviet Union is one Alexander  Gresko  In 1971 he was  expelled by the British as a KGB operative engaged in unauthorised surveillance. 
The issue is this: What will be done by the Australian Government in practical terms? Could I suggest that we take up the statement made by the Prime Minister on 20 July 1978 when, after discussing the Orlov trial, he noted that Australia commenced a three-year term on the United Nations Commission on Human Rights at the beginning of this year. Could I suggest that the Australian representative on the United Nations Commission on Human Rights pursue the issues that have been raised and pursue them vigorously. Unless something like this is done, unless the free world stands up against the blatant breach of agreements and fundamental human rights, then not only will these men be forgotten, but also we will be digging our own graves. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Is the motion seconded? 
I move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that the Australian Government should not participate in any trade or aid negotiations with the Government of Vietnam until that Government allows those Vietnamese approved for entry into Australia to depart Vietnam and join their relatives in Australia. 
This motion was placed on the Notice Paper on 15 August 1978. In fact the announcement of the Government in January of this year would appear to overtake the purpose of the motion. In fact, the motion referred specifically to those Vietnamese approved for entry into Australiathat is to say, those Vietnamese who have letters of authority from the Australian Government. When I say 'from the Australian Government' I mean that since July 1976 some 480 letters of authority have been issued to residents of Vietnam who have immediate family members in Australia. As at the end of 1978 only 92 persons had arrived in Australia under this arrangement and the majority of those have been granted exit visas by the Vietnamese authorities since March 1 978. Some of the letters of authority received since 1978 were renewable letters of authority which had been granted by the then Minister for 
Labour and Immigration, who I think was the  Hon.  Clyde Cameron. 
I put it to the Senate that this is a matter which should deserve the attention and support of both sides of the chamber. These people, as I have just mentioned, have immediate family members in Australia. I think it important that action be taken to encourage the Vietnamese authorities to act in a humane way and to enable these family reunions to take place. Some people who have been to Vietnam, including  Mr Uren,  have indicated on their return that anyone who wants out of Vietnam can get out. I refer to a statement made by  Mr Uren  on his return from Vietnam on 2 August 1978 and published in the Hobart  Mercury  of that date. The report said: 

 Mr Uren, the Opposition spokesman on urban and regional development and a former senior Minister, said Vietnam had spoken to most Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) about the problem. 
That is the problem of the exodus of refugees. The report continued: 
Hanoi had no objection to people who did not want to be part of the new Vietnam leaving the country,  Mr Uren  said. He said it only objected when refugees hijacked boats or stole government property when leaving. 
He also stated that the Government of Vietnam was 'extremely tolerant and patient' and 'is not oppressive and is gentle and progressive'. He also challenged 'any editor of any newspaper or other people to come forward with evidence to the contrary'. When he said 'to the contrary', he challenged them to show that the Government was oppressive. Further, he denied that it was trying to prevent Vietnamese people leaving the country. Quite frankly, the evidence is and has been that the Vietnamese Government is the direct opposite of those eulogistic descriptions because there are 480 minus 92 Vietnamese who have been approved for entry to Australia, who have received letters of authority to join their relatives in Australia but who for over four years in some cases have been prevented from leaving Vietnam. 
I certainly do not expect those unfortunate people or their relatives within Australia to come forward and respond to  Mr Uren's  challenge. But I wish on their behalf to respond to that challenge in the hope that everyone concerned will use his or her influence to ensure that these people- and I emphasise that some of them were granted letters of authority by the previous Government- can rejoin their families. I have detailed knowledge of at least two of those families. Fortunately they are amongst the 92 people who have recently come to Australia. If there is nothing to prevent those people coming to 
Australia, why can they not come? They have been vetted by Australia, they have been provided with Australian Government letters of authority and they should not be subjected to the elaborate procrastination that has occurred and the consequent anxiety which has been caused between parents and children, between husband and wife, and between one family and another. In this morning's edition of the Melbourne  Age  I noticed a statement by the  Deputy  High Commissioner for the United Nations High Commission for Refugees,  Mr Dale  de Haan, who said that Vietnam had told him that it will reduce the number of boat people leaving its shores if other countries take Vietnamese refugees on a family reunion basis. Apparently that is what Vietnam has been saying all along, but what is being said and what is being done are two different things. 
I make an appeal for the reuniting of these people in the belief that if one cannot get a thing one way, one gets it another way. There has been little movement on this matter for over four years, and that is why I put this proposal before the Senate. However, I do not wish to go into the question of refugees because this motion was not meant to refer to refugees. Descriptions of the sufferings and torments of refugees are heartbreaking. I refer simply to a headline in the Examiner of 3 March 1979 which said: 'Vietnamese girl aged 17 buries 49 refugees'. The story went on to recount how for 20 weeks a 1 7- year-old Vietnamese girl refugee marooned on an old wreck in the South China Sea lived on seagulls, oysters and a little rainwater and that when help finally came the girl had buried the last of her 49 companions. I do not want to go into the whole question of refugees. The motion was designed simply to highlight the situation concerning family group reunions. I believe that the issue has been overtaken by the announcement of the Federal Government in January of this year concerning the cutting off of aid and the recent announcement by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees concerning the apparent indication by the Vietnamese Government on family reunions. Under those circumstances, I do not wish to proceed with the motion and I seek leave io withdraw it. 
Motion- by leave- withdrawn. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations and concerns the Malaysian Airline System airliner which was the subject of bans in Sydney. Is it not a fact that the Malaysian Government gaoled the representative of the International Transport Workers Federation,  Mr Donald  Uren, and 22 local unionists? Is it not also a fact that the International Transport Workers Federation legitimately sought action by its affiliates in support of those unionists? Is it not a fact that MAS was warned that flights to Australia and indeed elsewhere where ITWF had affiliates would be counterproductive? Is it not a fact that despite warnings an aircraft was sent to Australia? Is it not also a fact that an MAS aircraft is currently grounded in Britain and that one is grounded in West Germany also? 
Is it not also a fact that two senior Ministers of this Government met representatives of the Australian Council of Trade Unions last week and it was generally accepted that moves should be made to do two things: firstly, to attempt to attain the release of  Mr Donald  Uren and at least the release if not the charging of the other unionists; and secondly, to extricate the matter from the current fare negotiations. Is it not also a fact that the ACTU recommended to the 14 unions concerned that their ban be lifted. Is it not also a fact that those unions agreed to a lifting of the ban? Is it not also a fact that that recommendation was vetoed by a small handful of unionists who acted against the instructions of their unions and instead supported the manoeuvrings of pro-communist left operators at Mascot? 
The Senate is debating cognately the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill 1979, the Telecommunications Amendment Bill 1979, the Customs Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 and the Telecommunications (Interception) Bill 1979. 1 propose to deal in general terms with the question of security intelligence services. I do not propose to go into detail on the subject matters of these Bills. If necessary, I will make my contribution in the Committee stage. 
One year ago Italy's senior statesman was kidnapped in central Rome and two months later was assassinated. Who killed Aldo Mora? The Red Brigade claimed credit for this barbarous act of terrorism. This was its proud boast and no cock robin claim. But the authorities in Italy still do not know who killed Aldo Moro. For that matter, who planted the bomb which exploded in central Sydney last year at the Hilton Hotel, the venue of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting? Thirteen months later the perpetrators of that act of terrorism are still at large. Those two examples are a commentary, both of the need for efficient security intelligence services and on their systematic demoralisation by the forces of the pro-communist left and of the flow of mindless media comment which fortunately has now been arrested. 
The question arises as to whether security intelligence services are consistent with the principles of a free democratic society. The Royal Commission on Security and Intelligence, appointed by the Whitlam Government to inquire into intelligence and security matters, answered that question with a clear 'Yes'.  Mr 
Justice Hope, the royal commissioner, said in his report tabled in the Parliament in October 1 977: 
My basic finding is that Australia needs and should have a security intelligence service to investigate and provide intelligence about threats to the internal security of the nation. 
The royal commissioner perceived the threats to internal security of the nation as including: The activities in Australia of foreign espionage agents and their attempts to obtain local agents of influence; the dissemination of disinformation; sabotage; terrorism and subversion.  Mr Justice  Hope made the following pointed comment: 
There are many ways, short of war, in which a foreign power can weaken another, or strengthen itself vis-a-vis that other by clandestine activities in the latter's territory. There are likewise many ways in which a country can be weakened and the overthrow of its government planned and organised by clandestine activity of a wholly or substantially domestic origin. 
He concluded: 'By its very nature, subversion is clandestine and deceptive', against which, he said, 'ordinary police methods' were not sufficient. These words are the more significant in view of the fact that their author,  Mr Justice  Hope, is not your raving reactionary. Indeed he is the former  president  of the New South Wales Council for Civil Liberties. 
Clearly there is a need in a democratic society for an intelligence organisation to obtain, to correlate and to evaluate intelligence relevant to security and to communicate and advise on such matters under proper guidelines. Of course the achievement of the desirable twin objective of political accountability and operational autonomy is always difficult, but a balance is required between the needs of the nation for a strong, reliable and highly efficient security service and the need to preserve our individual rights and freedoms.  Mr Justice  Hope declared in his report that a security organisation fulfilling its proper role is entitled to the confidence and respect of the nation as is the Defence Force. By inference he was referring to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization. 
Reference has been made to the fact that a number of  Mr Justice  Hope 's recommendations have been implemented already in the administrative field. But we must bear in mind the statement by  Mr Justice  Hope that such an organisation does deserve the confidence and respect of the people. In the interest of Australia's security, let us have no more of the demoralising Murphytype raids and no more fingering of allied intelligence officers by the media mouthing the treachery of turncoats. One of them was mentioned here tonight- Philip Agee. The media took up what Agee said but failed to say that he was under deportation orders from the British Labour Government. 
The nation must defend its security intelligence services when under attack from the very forces whose clandestine activities have attracted the surveillance necessary to forestall a surprise attack. The ASIO legislation and corresponding legislation now before the Parliament follows closely the findings of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security appointed by the previous Government and therefore deserves the support of all Australians concerned with our future security. 
In commencing my remarks I said that I had no intention, during this second reading debate, of going into the details of the legislation. However, I feel bound to comment on part of the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack).  I do so in the hope that my comments will be listened to, and may be acted upon, between now and the time when the Bill is considered in Committee. In referring to the need for bipartisan support, the Minister said: 
. recognising the key position or the Director-General and the need for a bi-partisan approach to the security of the nation, the Bill will require consultation with the Leader of the Opposition before appointment of the Director-General. 
If consultation with the Leader of the Opposition is thought to be justified, in the interests of bipartisanship, in the case of the appointment of the Director-General, why is that not so in the case of the appointment of the  president  of the security appeals tribunal? I would have thought that it might have occurred to the Government that some people might try on, and continually try on, the appeals tribunal. The provisions of Part IV of the Bill entitle most persons who are affected by prejudicial security assessments to a right of appeal to a tribunal presided over by a judge. Of course, there will be some who, wishing to make an oblique attack on the security service itself, will be interested in trying on that organisation. Why not put the judge who is appointed  president  of the tribunal beyond such attempts by consulting the Leader of the Opposition prior to his appointment? 
I support the second reading of this legislation. Although I support some parts of the Opposition's amendment, most of it I do not support. Both  Senator Button  and  Senator Evans  have referred to paragraph (h) of the amendment, which provides:  that communication by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to State authorities of security assessment information in relation to individuals be made only upon condition of adoption by such State of a Security Appeals system similar to that created by Part IV of the present Bill. 
I may be reading the Minister's second reading speech incorrectly, and I may also have read the Bill incorrectly, but I should have thought that such a security assessment, if it were prejudicial, would under Part IV have to be supplied to the person affected, who would then have a right of appeal to the tribunal, presided over by a judge. 
Incidentally, in speaking of State authorities, I am reminded that the provision in the Bill that security communications be made to the proper State authorities is appropriate. For example, I am sure that it would be appropriate in the case of energy advisory councils. It would save embarrassment to a premier, for example, if such security assessments were provided and a person appointed was not found subsequently to be one who was prejudicial to security. 
Later in his second reading speech, the Minister speaks of the relationship between the Director-General and the Government in these terms: 
Clearly, the Government must, in the ultimate, bear the responsibility for the security of the nation. 
That goes to the question that I have just mentioned, of the dually, desirable objectives of political accountability and organisational autonomy. The Minister said also that the Government:   . . must also bear the responsibility for the general direction of the activities of the security organisation. At the same time it is proper that the Organisation should be under the control of the Director-General and that the Government should not be able to override the opinion of the DirectorGeneral on whether security requires or does not require the collection of information on an individual, whether information held concerning an individual should be communicated or on what advice should be given by the Director-General to a Minister or a department. Clause 8 of the Bill reflects these considerations. 
I refer the Minister to the fourth report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security, Volume 1, at page 173. Presumably, clause 8 of the legislation is supposed to follow that part of the report. Paragraph 352 of the report states: 
It seems to me that, in general terms, the Director-General must be subject to proper directions by the Minister, and that the Minister should be responsible, 'in a general way', to Parliament for the organisation and its activities. 
That is almost word for word with the second reading speech of the Minister, which picks up that paragraph; but let us now look at the following paragraph, 353: 
The matters in respect of which the Director-General should not be subject to ministerial direction are: 
Whether any particular intelligence or matter is or might be relevant to security for the purposes of the Act. 
That is not picked up specifically in either clause 8 or the Minister's second reading speech. Both the Minister and the Act speak of an individual, but what about the need to obtain intelligence about an organisation- for example, the Ananda Marga. Is it possible that, under clause 8, the Minister could say to the Director-General: 'No. you cannot collect information about that organisation'? He has not the right to say that ASIO cannot collect information about an individual but, by inference does have the right to say that the Director-General cannot collect information about an organisation. In the case that I mentioned of the Ananda Marga, it would be quite essential that information about that organisation should be collected. I raise that point at this stage so that it may be given consideration. Perhaps I am reading into the question something that is not there, and my query can be answered quite readily by the Minister in his reply. Most of us would wish that there were no need for a security intelligence organisation in our free and democratic society. Certainly the integrity of our social institutions in educational, union, family, business, entertainment, government, judicial, executive and other areas, is best protected by persons of goodwill acting in concert to prevent these institutions being undermined. However, we are faced with the threats to our security which were outlined in the report of  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Hope, the Royal Commissioner on Intelligence and Security. He made the recommendations upon which these Bills are broadly based. I therefore support them at the second reading stage. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, because of the effect of technological developments on future employment prospects; or it may be directed more appropriately to the Minister for Science and the Environment, who is responsible for preparing us for future shocks, technologically speaking. In what year is it expected a computer will become chess champion of the world, with all that that implies? 
-A defence statement of 38 pages by the Honourable D. J. Killen, the Minister for Defence, has been incorporated in  Hansard.  I was nol given the opportunity of seeing this document beforehand. I think the statement deserves close study before significant comment is made upon it. However, I believe that if a statement of this nature is to be incorporated in  Hansard  it ought first to be distributed to honourable senators so that they are in a position immediately, as obviously was the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator 
Wriedt) who received a copy of the statement beforehand, to debate this matter. I rise simply to make the point that defence is a vital issue confronting this nation. The question of our nation's defences, including their inadequacy, is becoming a matter of political significance in this country. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  soon after he was elected talked consistently about 'a steady enlargement of self-reliance and defence capability'. Of course,  Mr Killen  made the comment in 1 975 that our defences were such that they were 'unable to protect Botany Bay against an enemy on a summer afternoon'. It appears from the concern that is expressed on all sides that we are not very much further advanced from that situation. It is all very well for the Minister to state on the first page of his statement: 
The provision in 1978-79 for a defence outlay larger in real terms than any achieved since the last Budget of the McMahon Government . . . 
That is not an adequate statement. In fact, if one has a look at the provision for defence in successive Budgets one will see that the provision for defence in the 1978-79 Budget as a proportion of total outlays was lower than in any year for the last five or six years. This proportion has been steadily declining over that period of time. This position must be reversed. 
At this stage I do not wish- nor can I- to reply to this statement. As I have said, it has been incorporated and I have not had the opportunity to look at it. But I hope that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  before he adjourns this debate, may be able to advise the Senate when a substantive debate could take place on this vitally important matter of defence. 
The Senate is debating the second reading stage of the Parliament House Construction Authority Bill. I take a slightly different attitude from that which was taken by  Senator Mason  who has just spoken in the debate. I take a fatalistic attitude. The Government took the decision to build a new and permanent parliament house and that decision received the enthusiastic endorsement of the official Opposition. I think that any attempt to overturn that decision either in this place or anywhere else would be so much whistling in the dark.  Senator Mason  spoke of the possibility of industrial action arising during the construction of the building. Needless to say, this can happen with any major project. It would be unusual if some industrial disputes did not arise. I would be surprised if the industrial disputes arose out of the concept itself. When the decision to build a new parliament house was announced, it was hailed by the various unions in the building, industry in the Australian Capital Territory. In any event, if the unions went out on strike for any lengthy period during the construction of the building, I do not think that it would be a matter of sufficient public interest to warrant any decisive action. A couple of years of delay in the completion of the building would not concern the people very much. Therefore, it would not be a matter of much public interest. 
I agree with  Senator Mason  that during the interim period there appears to be an accepted decision by the Executive that little or no maintenance will be undertaken on the present building. Whilst all honourable senators expect to be in this place in 1988 and therefore to be ensconced - 
I am. Whilst we expect to be ensconced in the new and permanent parliament house, there are officers of the Senate, the House of Representatives and the Joint House Department who have to work in this building day and night and who will be retiring in that intervening period. I think it is essential that the points raised by  Senator Mason  be taken on board. There should be no blanket attitude of reducing the amount of money to be used in maintenance of this building to ensure that at least the minimal levels of conditions which now apply are maintained. 
I agree also with  Senator Mason  and  Senator Davidson  concerning the space allocated for the Parliamentary Library.  Senator Davidson  dealt with this matter at length. I want to tell honourable senators what is happening. The Parliamentary Library, the most important form of assistance available to parliamentarians, is being squeezed. I wish to read out what is in fact happening in this regard. 1 do so because this information is not readily available. It is available to me as a member of the Library Committee. It would no doubt be available to members of the Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House. Generally speaking, members of Parliament do not know what is happening. These are the facts: In simple terms, the amount of space proposed for the Library in 1977 was 8,387 square metres. The area decided upon a few weeks ago for the new and permanent Parliament House is 4,786 square metres. It has been cut by almost half. I believe that that is a scandal. Compare that, for example, with the other services, the refreshment services such as the bar and the eating places, and see how degrading it is. I would like to make the observation, and it is by no means original, that man does not live by bread alone. Bar facilities are not touched to any great extent, nor are the eating facilities, but the library area regarded by the experts as being the minimum area desired is cut to half from 8,387 square metres to 4,786 square metres. 
That is a good question. I am not sure who is responsible for it, but the Library Committee received this information today. I would like to know who was responsible for it. The space provisions now determined by those in authority are only a little different from the provisions made for the Parliamentary Library 50 years ago. The space needs of the Department of the Parliamentary Library cannot be predicted so easily as those of other departments. For example, it is known how many members of parliament there are, how much they eat, and a determination can be made as to what area will be needed for eating and drinking facilitiesalthough I notice from time to time the numbers in the bar do go up and down. 
Yes, I have noticed that too. The area for the Executive can be determined, as can the area for seating for senators and for members of the House of Representatives. But the space needs for the Department of the Parliamentary Library cannot be predicted because the information services and needs cannot be so easily foreseen. The influence of technology is not readily quantifiable. The information explosion continues unabated as new forms of communication, for example, satellites, are used. This increases the requirement to obtain, to retain and readily to retrieve and disseminate information for the needs and use of the Parliament: Concomitant with this is the need of the Parliament to retain its own sources of independent information. If this requirement is to be met satisfactorily, adequate provision must be made so that the information services are not fragmented, or housed improperly, and thereby rendered inefficient and perhaps ineffective. How often have we heard members of the Parliament, particularly members of this chamber, saying that the Senate needs to be a brake on the Executive, that it should be the House of review. How can can it review Executive decisions which are translated into Bills coming before this House unless there is a source of independent information? I regard it as an affront by the Executive, or whoever is responsible, for it to attempt to slash the area that was regarded by the experts as being that which was required to provide the basis for that independent information. 
Constraints upon the size of a new building increase the temptation to reduce the space allocated to information holdings. The tendency is to regard the holdings as book collections, a view which loses sight of the fact that a modern library must increasingly hold its information in other forms, for example, as tapes, cassettes, microfiche, microfilm and computer data. Books and other print forms are no longer adequate sources of information on their own. 
The Library Committee also received a report this morning that approximately 25 per cent of book stocks are weeded out every year on the basis that the type of book held in the Parliamentary Library is somewhat different from that which would be held, for example, in a university library. Many of the titles soon become outdated because of new editions, and so on. The size of the parliamentary Library's holdings in the new Parliament House has already been under scrutiny. As I mentioned, they have been slashed considerably. The provision that has now been decided upon is little different from that made 50 years ago, which has been considerably encroached upon by other departments of the Houses of Parliament. 
The overall allocation of space for the Department needs to be considered. It is important, as  Senator Davidson  said, that as much as possible should be under the same roof, so as to ensure the availability of information on short notice. Information must be processed to be made readily retrievable and instantly usable. The requirement of the Parliament for instant information must be catered for within the new building. I raise these matters because I believe that those responsible should reassess their decision to reduce the area available to this vital adjunct to any member of parliament and to the Parliament itself. I ask those concerned to do this in the interests of parliamentary democracy. 
During the second reading debate  Senator Davidson  outlined a proposition in respect of the area required by the Library Committee and I followed that up. I am a member of the technical advances sub-committee of the Library Committee. I rise not only because of my knowledge in that area but also because I am the  chairman  of the Derwent Regional Library Advisory Council. That is the newest library in Tasmania. I know what happens when architects and engineers get into their minds that they are the be-all and end-all when it comes to determining space for a particular function. If this function is the retrieval and making available of information they must be guided by the experts; that is, the librarians in the field, whose function is to ensure that the service is maintained for members of parliament. 
I did not detect in the statements of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  anything that would encourage me to the belief that this sort of expert advice will be followed. Rather, he laid stress on a suggestion that the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives have not made any complaints. I do not know whether they have or whether they have not. I take the Minister's word for it, but I would hate to be in the position of  Mr Speaker  or the  President.  They have to juggle the bids made by each and every one of their departments. I do not expect to receive an answer now because I know that the Minister would not be in a position to give it- I hasten to say that that is no reflection on the Minister- but all I would like to be assured of is that when the critical discussions are taking place as to space in the Parliamentary Library, those people who are responsible for considering the technological advances that are required for the new and permanent parliament house library will be the ones to give the advice. Let their advice be heeded. Also, leading up to the construction of the new and permanent parliament house, it will be important to have staff made available to the Parliamentary Library for this very purpose. I simply make those points and hope that those who will have the authority in this matter will take them up at the appropriate time. 
I rise to state that the proposition before the Senate is most timely. Since the early part of 1977 I have been in correspondence with the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  about this question of dual nationality. There have been some movements, if only to state quite unequivocally what the status quo is. Previously the remarks contained in the booklet entitled  Hints for Australian Travellers  were quite unacceptable. Following correspondence between the Department of Foreign Affairs and me and other members of parliament and following the recommendation of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, those hints for travellers were made more specific. Indeed, they clearly set out the status quo. That is a step in the right direction, but it is only a first step. Negotiations with various countries should be developed to ensure that this problem is overcome. 
The Senate will recall that on 1 7 August 1 978 1 read into  Hansard  a letter which I received from the Slovenian-Australian Association in this city of Canberra. It related to the difficulties experienced by Australian citizens of Yugoslavian birth when they visited that country and the difficulties that they experienced in this country by reason of their dual nationality. I will requote excerpts of that letter that I received from the Slovenian-Australian Association of Canberra. In fact the letter was received, as I understand it, by all honourable senators. The Association said: 
The Yugoslav regime has implemented the law by which every citizen of Yugoslavia is forced to retain his or her citizenship whether or not he or she obtains a citizenship of another country. Furthermore, the clause extends over children of the first generation who are not even born in Yugoslavia. In practical terms, this means that it is impossible for an immigrant from Yugoslavia or his children to renounce their Yugoslav citizenship despite the fact that they become Australian citizens. 
I interpolate here to say that recently there have been problems, which have been adverted to by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in respect of compulsory military service being imposed upon these people when they return for holidays to the country of their birth. I go back to the letter which states further: 
This claim by the Yugoslav regime gives its embassies abroad, and in particular Australia, an outstanding power to control, through intimidation and harassment, their former citizens should these citizens ever require a visa to visit their friends and relatives in their homeland. 
I will not read the whole of the letter. I will read just the final part of the letter. If anybody is interested it is to be found at pages 166 to page 168 of Senate  Hansard of  17 August 1978. The letter concludes: 
Members of our community are deeply concerned that they have been discriminated against as Australian citizens, in Australia and when abroad, by the simple fact that they find it impossible to free themselves of being citizens of the Yugoslav regime. They are also concerned that this very fact gives the Yugoslav Consular authorities in Australia power to haunt its dissidents beyond their terrestrial life, since this claim of citizenship extends beyond them to their children. They are concerned of course to see the Australian Government so indifferent when its citizens are being harassed by foreign powers in Australia, imprisoned by a foreign power abroad and even executed by a foreign power abroad. 
Concern is also expressed over Article 44 of the Constitution which lends itself to discrimination against those citizens who involuntarily bear dual citizenship. 
We - 
That is the Slovenian-Australian Association-  therefore ask the Conference to request the Government to extend its political protection to all its citizens on an equal basis at home and abroad. 
We also ask that Slovenes in Australia receive at least as much recognition about their national identity as they have enjoyed for centuries in their homelands. 
I think that is the point that  Senator Lajovic  stressed- the question of nationality and citizenship. I advert to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which, as far back as October 1 976, recommended: 
As a shorter term objective, high priority should be accorded to entering into bilateral agreements between Australia and those countries whose nationality laws cause Australian citizens to be dual nationals and who suffer disadvantage because of this circumstance. 
That was recommendation No. 3 on pages 7 to 10 of Parliamentary Paper No. 255 of 1976. The operative words were 'shorter term objective', high priority', 'bilateral agreements' and 'suffer disadvantage'. The recommendation was for the Government to attempt to achieve a shorter term objective by establishing a high priority to be accorded to the making of bilateral arrangements between Australia and those countries whose nationality laws cause Australian citizens to be dual nationals. As I understand it, we have not really received any substantitve report from the Government on the countries with which those discussions have taken place and what the results have been. That is why this motion is timely. It is time that the Government advised the Senate and the Parliament as a whole about the action it has taken in respect of this important matter. The recommendation indicated that these negotiations should take place with those countries whose nationality laws cause Australian citizens to be dual nationals and who suffer disadvantage because of this circumstance. 

 Senator Tate adverted to those people who do not suffer disadvantage. I also have received correspondence from persons with dual BritishAustralian nationality who seek to retain that dual nationality. The recommendation did not attempt to affect their rights. As you know,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  it went to the question of those people who suffer disadvantage. I support the motion before the Senate. I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  who is in the Senate chamber tonight, takes the comments that have been made in the helpful spirit that they have been made. I hope that the Government will bring down a report in the Parliament in the near future on this important question which affects a large number of Australian citizens. 
I do not regard myself as part of the Government nor does the Government regard me as part of it. I regard myself as part of the Opposition. In relation to clause 5,I will be voting against the first two amendments and voting for the third amendment. I will, of course, be raising a matter in relation to clause 8 which I raised in my second reading speech but which the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Durack)  did not advert to in hisreply. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
My question relates to that asked by  Senator Walters  concerning the women's shelter in Hobart. Will the Minister for Social Security also refer to the appropriate authorities a similar advertisement which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  of 6 January this year which sought a number of 'co-ordinators' for the Western Region Women 's Refuge? The advertisement reads: 
The refuge operates as a feminist collective, and the positions involve organising political actions around women's issues, as well as co-ordinating the day-to-day running of the house. 
The honourable senator may not think there is something wrong with it; I am asking the Government whether it does. Is this the kind of activity, exploiting the unfortunate persons concerned, that is envisaged by the Government in its substantial financial assistance to women's refuges? 
-I was not going to enter this debate, but then I heard the last  speaker, Senator Gietzelt.  In my view  Senator Gietzelt  mentioned, quite unjustifiably, that the intention of the legislation was to enable surveillance of the activities of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. I was a member of the ACTU executive for 12 years. I do not see the proposal that is in clause 5- apart from the proposal that is sub-clause (c)- as enabling such surveillance. I think it is a lot of hooey. 
Yes. That is precisely why 1 say that it is a lot of hooey. If the honourable senator knew what occurred on the ACTU executive in modern times he would not even think like that. We have advanced a little bit further since 1926. 
I have read the clause of the Bill and I wish the honourable senator had told  Senator Gietzelt  to read the clause of the Bill. The provisions and rules of the ACTU constitution, of course, are historical but their application is in accordance with the International Labor Organisation objective for the establishment of an economic and social order in which persons can live with freedom and dignity, and pursue both their spiritual development and material well-being in conditions of economic security and equal opportunity. That is the actual application of the constitution at the present moment.  Senator Gietzelt  is living in the past. That is certainly not the application of the ACTU constitution at the present moment. It is a lot of hooey. I would not have entered this debate if I had not heard all the claptrap from  Senator Gietzelt.  We are dealing with clause 5 of the Bill. Insofar as clause 5 (a) is concerned we have an amendment by the Opposition to leave out the word 'ultimately'. Insofar as clause 5 (b) is concerned, the suggestion is that we insert the word unlawful' before the word 'activity'. So far as clause 5 (c) is concerned it is suggested that we leave out the words 'or hostility'. 
Yes, now we are on. So far as I am concerned I will support the amendment to leave out of the words 'or hostility'. I cannot see why those words should be in clause 5 (c). The clause reads as follows: 
activities directed to promoting violence or hostility between different groups . . . 
Anybody with a bit of commonsense would know that the words 'or hostility' are unwarranted in that particular case. I am reminded by a number of people that we are dealing with clause 5 (a). The suggestion is that we leave out the word 'ultimately'. Clause 5(1) reads: 
For the purposes of this Act, the activities of persons, other than activies of foreign origin or activities directed against a foreign government, that are to be regarded as subversion are- (a) activities that involve, will involve or lead to, or are intended or likely ultimately to involve or lead to, the use of force or violence or other unlawful acts (whether by those persons or by others) for the purpose of overthrowing or destroying the constitutional government of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory. 
I suggest that the word 'ultimately' is quite appropriate. Let me remind the Senate that during my contribution to the second reading debate I asked the question: Who killed Aldo Moro? I asked that question quite deliberately because despite the fact that the Red Brigade claimed the credit for killing him, nobody knows precisely who killed Aldo Moro, the senior statesman of Italy. The reason that nobody knows is as stated by me in my speech on the second reading debate- that the excesses of the attacks made on security intelligence organisations, some of them with justification, had demoralised those organisations. Such attacks demoralised Italy's security organisations to such an extent that even now, 1 3 months since the senior statesman of a major force in Europe, Italy, was assassinated, the assassinator has not been found. And why? It is because Italy's intelligence services were so demoralised that they were not able to pinpoint the assassinator. 
Last June I had the opportunity of having a look at the situation of terrorism in Rome. The facts are simply that the Red Brigade had groups of people who were so imbued with a false strain - 
What  Senator Cavanagh  said has convinced me that what he and  Senator Gietzelt  have talked about is a lot of hooey. To suggest that I, as secretary of a trades and labour council, or Bob Hawke, as  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, would be subject to surveillance by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation when addressing a mass meeting of transport workers or anyone else engaged in an industrial dispute is nonsense. This is not what it is all about. We are talking about violent activities for the purpose of overthrowing or destroying the constitutional government of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory. That does not include the overthrowing of a political party which happens to be in power. The clause refers to a government which is in existence under the constitution of a Commonwealth, State or Territory. We are not talking about whether I or Bob Hawke or anybody else does not like the political complexion of a particular government. 
What  Senator Cavanagh  said about my statement on the Italian situation is ludicrous. I concede to the claim by the Red Brigade that it was responsible for the murder of Aldo Moro. I understood that when I visited Rome. For  Senator Cavanagh  's information, the personnel who were guarding Aldo Moro were not of the security intelligence organisation. They were appointed to their positions from the security force of Italy, not the security intelligence organisation. The point I was making was that had Italy's security intelligence organisation been able to undertake surveillance of groups which were dupes of the Red Brigade and whose activities were ultimately likely to involve force or violence it would have had more information which would have ultimately led to the capture and conviction of the murderers of Italy's leading statesman. 
I wish to direct a few remarks to clause 8 (2). In the speech of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  in closing the second reading debate, he mentioned that if he had omitted answering any other points made by any other senators during the second reading debate he would pick them up in the Committee stage. I have risen to afford him the opportunity of doing so in respect of the matter I raised at the second reading stage where I dealt with the very points that are at issue in clause 8 (2). The preamble to that clause reflects the recommendations made by  Mr Justice  Hope on page 1 73 in paragraph 352 where he said: 
It seems to me that, in general terms, the Director-General must be subject to proper directions by the Minister . . . 
I have no real quarrel with the preamble within clause 8 (2) because my approach to this legislation is that in general terms it is based on the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope who, having investigated the situation, was in the best position to make such recommendations. 
Paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of clause 8(2) presumably are an attempt to pick up the recommendations made by  Mr Justice  Hope in paragraph 353 on page 173. 1 think it is as well, since we are dealing with this matter, to read  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendation: 
The matters in respect of which the Director-General should not be subject to ministerial direction are: 
Whether any particular intelligence or matter is or might be relevant to security for the purpose of the Act. 
Whether, to whom, and in what manner any intelligence held by ASIO should be communicated. 
Having been requested by a minister or directed by the Minister to give advice to a minister in respect of a matter relevant to security, what advice should be given to that minister. 
Clearly, paragraphs (b) and (c) in the Bill pick up almost directly paragraphs (b) and (c) of the recommendation, but paragraph (a) in the Bill does not pick up paragraph (a) of the recommendation. I repeat that  Mr Justice  Hope's recommendation in paragraph 353 states: 
The matters in respect of which the Director-General should not be subject to ministerial direction are: 
Whether any particular intelligence or matter is or might be relevant to security for the purpose of the Act. 
Clause 8 (2 ) of the Bill states in part: 
. but the Minister is not empowered to override the opinion of the Director-General: 
on the question whether the collection of intelligence by the Organisation concerning a particular individual would, or would not, be justified by reason of its relevance to security. 
I should like to know what reason the Minister has for taking up the recommendations in paragraphs 352 and 353 and directly incorporating them in the legislation with the exception of (a) in paragraph 353. 
Since I merely asked the question and since the Opposition has obviously noted and applauded the distinction between the text of the Bill and the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope, let me be as specific as I was in my speech during the second reading debate. In respect of an organisation, for example, under the proposed legislation, as distinct from the recommendation, it would appear that a Minister could direct the Director-General that collection of information on an organisation should not proceed. I think we ought to have a good look at that, particularly in regard to the example I gave in my speech in the second reading debate relating to a member of the Ananda Marga sect. It would seem to me that, if the Ananda Marga was regarded as being of concern to security, surely the collection of intelligence on the activities of that organisation, its philosophy, et cetera, would be justified by reason of relevance to security. I pose another question: Could an Attorney-General direct that knowledge of the objects and philosophical background of, say, the Socialist Party of Australia- the Moscow-line Communist Party- is a matter about which intelligence or information should not be collected? I raise that because  Mr Justice  Hope himself indicated that such an organisation was one about which there should be intelligent information, and I stress that. I hope that the Attorney-General will be able to respond. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate calls on the Government to introduce sixmonthly indexation of repatriation and social security benefits, in particular, pensions and family allowances. 
-It is difficult for us to realise that when we leave this place today Frank Stewart will no longer be with us, that no longer will we be able to exchange pleasantries and ideas with a man of great and high principle. I say that advisedly because the news on Easter Monday of Frank Stewart's death was a great shock to me, as I am sure it was to every member of the Senate. But, in the light of the fact that Easter is a time of celebration in Christendom, it was fitting that it should be the time when Frank Stewart was called. He also went through a dark period politically and came out on top. 
For many years he was ostracised because he took the view that his personal, basic, religious motivation should not be repressed in the public arena, and in so doing he incurred the ostracism of many people. He incurred that ostracism because anti-Catholicism unfortunately is becoming the anti-Semitism of the trendy Left. Those people who would ostracise the person who desires to express in the public arena the deeply thought-out principles which govern his personal life must understand that Jews and Christians have a common spiritual heritage and that ultimately, this type of attitude will not prevail. 

 His last major speech in the House of Representatives was in the abortion funding debate. He was forthright and logical in his submission. I know, as do some other senators and certainly some members of the House of Representatives, that in respect of that debate Frank Stewart came under a great deal of pressure from a section of the Labor Party which threatened the use of that section's numbers unless he changed his view. Frank Stewart stood steadfastly against that sort of approach. 
He made a lasting contribution to sport and recreation. A number of people in sporting organisations have told me what a tragedy it is that Frank Stewart has passed away. He of all Ministers, without exception, was the one who realised that the health of the nation depended upon physical fitness through sport. As we all know, he was largely responsible for a number of initiatives in that area. He was a true sport. 
Recently as part of the Senate team  Senator Kilgariff  and I took to the tennis courts. On an adjoining court Frank was doing his part to make the tournament the success it was. He was a sportsman to the last. He was a true mate. He gave me a great deal of personal support in some dark times. I say to his wife and family that I pay tribute to their husband and father for the service he has given to Australia. I support the motion that has been moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick),  seconded by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  and supported by other honourable senators. 
I will be brief. I rise merely to record the concern of a number of people as to the basis of the levy and the continuing weight being given to man hours worked. If this type of attitude is to prevail, of course those who are reaping the benefits of automation and technological change on the wharves will not be the ones and are not the ones who are paying the piper. In fact it is discriminatory when regard is had to the point that certain products have to be shipped by conventional means. I think that is a matter which is concerning a large number of people, not the least of whom are the fruit growers in my State. 
The other matter, to which I was not going to advert but I will now that  Senator Button  has raised it, is the question of amalgamations. He will realise that I have a view based on experience different from his, which does not blindly accept the proposition that an amalgamation of unions will do away with demarcation disputes. 1 recall well speaking to a senior official of the United Auto Workers Union some years ago who said that because his organisation covered a large number of classifications there were intraunion demarcation disputes of a quite substantial and difficult character. Because they were intraunion demarcation disputes they were more difficult of resolution than had they been interunion demarcation disputes. Indeed, it ought to be placed on record that the longest demarcation dispute in the history of industrial organisations in Australia was a dispute between a fitter member of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and a boilermaker member of the same union soon after that body became an amalgamated union. 
Furthermore, I do not think it at all fair to cite the example of last week where, as I understand it, the Waterside Workers Federation pulled the dispute because of its claim to cover certain tradesmen who were members of another union. I am subject to correction but I think the union in Sydney was the Electrical Trades Union. Certainly I would not feel that the other unions, whose industrial record on the wharf has been far better than that of the Waterside Workers Federation, would agree to allowing the Stevedoring Industry Consultative Council the say as to whether a recommendation should be brought to the Government that those organisations ought to be amalgamated into the one organisation, namely, the Waterside Workers Federation. 
Not the least of the reasons why these unions would not agree to that is that they are not represented on the Stevedoring Industry Consultative Council. Only the Waterside Workers Federation has a representative on that council, together with Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd, the Australian National Line and the Australian Shippers' Council. I, for one, and I am sure the primary producers of this country, would not like to see a monopoly situation develop on the wharf either from the employers side or from the union side. From a practical point of view one must ask oneself what is an industry. That is the crux of this whole question. If one says unions should be amalgamated on the basis of an industry then one is saying that everyone in the railways should be a member of the Australian Railways 
Union. I am sure that the members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union in the railway workshops would not go along with that proposition. 
I am not suggesting that the ARU is. If the proposition is that there be amalgamation of unions in the one industry then there would be one union for the railways, one union for the vehicle industry and one union for the stevedoring industry. It is just not practicable of application. As I mentioned, I would not like to see, nor do I think the majority of Australians would like to see, a monopoly situation develop on the waterfront. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
In view of the time, I will not delay the Senate. I wish to speak on the Industrial Relations Bureau and the mistake that was made in Tasmania, which caused a great deal of confusion in the fruit industry. 
I do not feel that I can add much to the very thorough outline of the problem that was caused by the IRBs decision as put to the Senate by  Senator Tate  on the night of Tuesday,  1  May. However, because of my long experience with the fruit industry through the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council I would like to remind the Senate that the fruit industry has had its ups and downs not only financially but also industrially. The Australian Workers Union, recognising these difficulties some years ago when it was an affiliate of the TTLC approached the TTLC to obtain a fruit industry agreement. I, as secretary of the TTLC, adopted this suggestion and entered into negotiations with  Mr Kenny,  the then secretary, and Pat McNally the then organiser of the fruit industry. Both of these men did a marvellous job. The agreement we reached did a number of things to ensure the free flow of fruit during the fruit season. One of these things, of course, involved the question of union membership and the deduction of union dues. I place on record the efforts of the TTLC in that regard which have been carried on to the present day. 

 Senator Tate called for the total abolition of the IRB from Tasmania. He has called upon  Mr Street-  and I quote his words- 'to obtain an early withdrawal of the Bureau from Tasmania'. I know that  Senator Tate  does not mean- nor do I mean- the withdrawal of the inspectorate machinery because it is important that this long established machinery be maintained. 
It is part of the inspectorate but the problem is that it is now part of the Industrial Relations Bureau with all that means to both the trades union movement and to employers. I would like to see the inspectorate machinery revert to the Department of Industrial Relations where it rightly belongs. It would then have conferred upon it, or re-conferred upon it, the respect in which it was held over a long period of years. 
On 4 April I asked the Minister *br Social Security, who represents the Minister for Health, a question concerning the Victorian Western Region Women's Refuge advertisement which appeared in the  Age  and which stated: 
The refuge operates as a feminist collective, and the positions involve organising political actions around women's issues, as well as co-ordinating the day-to-day running of the house. 
I have received a copy of a letter sent presumably by the Victorian Refuge Group to the Assistant Director of the Department of Health in Canberra. Is the Minister aware that in this letter the Victorian Refuge Group states that the original and continued funding of the refuge program was for more than emergency accommodation for women and children at risk, and that in an attachment to the letter the refuge group declares that women's refuges are 'primarily concerned with the status of women in society and not with providing welfare and health services'. How can the Government continue to fund such political refuges through the community health program? Will the Government ensure that sufficient funds are made available through the community health program to groups with bona fide welfare experience to meet the needs for women's refuges? 
-I support what  Senator Colston  has said. Let there be no misunderstanding about the effect of this motion if it is passed by the Senate. There may well have been a cosy arrangement made between the Opposition and the Government about Government Business superseding General Business tonight.  Senator Colston  has mentioned the importance of General Business. On page 3293 of the Notice Paper I have a notice of motion, which is the third one appearing on that page. It reads: 
That the Senate calls on the Government to introduce sixmonthly indexation of repatriation and social security benefits, in particular, pensions and family allowances. 
If this motion is carried today, the opportunity of debating that motion will not be available to this Senate until the Budget session. That is unacceptable to me. Under the normal course of events on Thursdays, General Business takes precedence of Government Business under the Standing Orders. Under the normal course of events which have been laid down by the Government tonight there would have been General Business, notices of motion.  Senator Colston's  motion would have been debated and presumably,  Senator Rae's  motion would have been at least partly debated. On Thursday, 24 May, there would have been General Business Orders of the Day. On Thursday, 31 May there would have been General Business, notices of motion again. 
This matter was placed on the Notice Paper at a particular stage. Honourable senators might say: 'Well, why did not you place that particular notice of motion on the Notice Paper in February?' I did not do so because I foresaw the reaction that that action would have received from Government senators. It would have received the same reaction as  Dr Klugman  's motion received from the Government in the other place, where Government members said that the motion was premature because a miniBudget would be required to implement its provisions. 
I wanted to ensure that this Senate had the opportunity of debating and voting on this very important matter relating to indexation of repatriation and social security benefits, including pensions and family allowances, before the Government formulated the Budget. If this vote is taken and no guarantee is given to me by the Government, the Senate will not have the opportunity of debating and voting on my motion of which I have given notice. Our colleague,  Senator Chipp,  has a guarantee that he will be able to proceed only to the second reading stage of his proposed Bill. The Government has not given a guarantee to  Senator Chipp,  as I am informed, that a vote will be taken on his Bill. 
The Whip confirms what I am saying.  Senator Chipp  mentioned this matter to me this morning. I do not want to embarrass the Government in any way. My notice of motion simply calls upon the Government, before it formulates the Budget, to take note of the fact that the Senate is of the opinion that it should introduce six-monthly indexation of repatriation and social security benefits and in particular pensions and family allowances.  Senator Rae  may accede to the request of the Government that Government Business take precedence over General Business tonight. That is his decision. 

 Senator Colston has made his position clear. He has sought a guarantee from the Government, and I support him in that. In seeking to have the Government withdraw its motion, I offer to limit my speech on my motion to five minutes or less. We all know the principles which surround the proposition that I am putting forward. We have all declared our attitudes on it. I certainly would be happy to see the proposition go to a vote. I am not happy about seeing the rights of individual senators trodden on by the Government, particularly when the Government has not consulted me- it may have consulted its own senators- about this attempt to ride roughshod over my rights and to take advantage of the Standing Orders not to have my motion debated when it is due to be debated. 
I address my question, which deals with livestock exports, to either the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry or the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware that the livestock market forecasting committee which met in Hobart last week forecast a severe downturn in stock numbers in Tasmania which could result in some hundreds of meat workers being laid off within the next month? Is he also aware that farmers in Tasmania are having difficulty in restocking? If he is not aware of the forecasts that have been made by the livestock market forecasting committee, will he examine the matter and see what the Government can do to assist in forestalling the major dislocation that is forecast for the meat industry? 
-by leave -My remarks are directed to you,  Mr President.  The only notice that I had of the subject matter of this report was the unofficial document showing the order of business in which it was stated: 

 Senator Melzer to present a Report from the Joint Committee on Public Works and to seek leave to make a statement relating to the Report. 
In this document there is no mention of what the report is about, or that it is about the important proposal for Casey University. As  Senator Button  knows, there are viewpoints contrary to the one that he has just expressed. I certainly cannot comment on the report until I have seen it.  Mr President,  you may have noticed that I left my place in the chamber to go to my room to see whether the report had been distributed to honourable senators' rooms. It had not. How can the Senate even move to take note of the report if we have not got it? I think that it is just not good enough for this type of procedure to be adopted without honourable senators having had the report distributed to them so that they are in a position, as  Senator Button  was, to study the report and to come to some conclusions which may not be the conclusions to which  Senator Button  came. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, deals with a matter which I have raised at Question Time and which has been the subject matter of voluminous correspondence. When will the Government honour its election undertaking to extend Service pensions and repatriation benefits to eligible Allied ex-servicemen? The personnel the Government had in mind were those who are eligible for British campaign medals- particularly Polish ex-servicemen? 
-We are debating the motion for the second reading of the Commonwealth Employees ( Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1979, to which  Senator Button  has moved an amendment which reads: 
Leave out all words after 'That' and insert: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to incorporate- (a) specific reasoning for termination of employment; and ( b ) a comprehensive appeal system relating to termination of employment and redeployment. ' 
I propose to support that amendment. I do not propose, because of the time element, to go over the arguments that have been advanced in support of it. However, I wish to say that at an appropriate stage I will propose as an amendment that the Bill be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
From a number of conversations that I had had I believed that this Bill might have a rough passage through the Senate. I do not now think that that will be the case. However, I hope that the amendment that I propose to move at an appropriate stage may even yet attract some support from the Government side. I know that a number of Government supporters, as witness  Senator Hamer,  are now committed to the Bill in view of the fiasco surrounding the stoppage last week. I do not criticise unions for taking action, but when they do so let them take good and proper action and not be party to a fiasco such as that of last week with an on-again off-again situation or merely absenting themselves from work. I have never seen such a strike in my life. 

 Mr Blunden of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association said: 'If you don't want to go out on strike you can flex off'. Have honourable senators ever heard of such a trade union principle in their life? He said: 'If you don't want to go out on strike or lose your pay flex off or take it off your recreation leave'. That sort of rubbish was put forward by  Mr Blunden  and his officers of the ACOA. It has brought a great deal of discredit on the union. I am sorry that  Mr Blunden  and those who proposed this particular type of industrial action' failed to apply one of the key tests that one should apply when one is considering adopting that course, that is, to ask oneself whether one's members fully support the proposed action. In the result, the union's members did not fully support it. A variety of estimates have been made as to the number who did not appear at work. The responsible Minister suggested that it was some 10 to 14 per cent. The union suggested that it was up to SO per cent, and claimed it as a victory. If I called a strike and got only 50 per cent of my members out, I would not be elected next time. I know that a number of Government supporters who observed the fiasco have noted that the call was not responded to. Therefore, they intend to proceed to vote for this legislation. I appeal to them to reflect again and, in considering the Bill, try to divorce it from the fiasco of last week. 
I do not propose to go over the arguments that have been so well advanced by  Senator Button  in support of the Opposition's amendment. However, for the benefit of Government senators in particular, I wish to direct attention particularly to clause 28 which, in my view, should not be a part of this legislation. The principle should not be incorporated in any legislation. In plain language, clause 28 allows the Executive to modify the application of this proposed Act of Parliament by regulation insofar as it affects employees of certain prescribed Commonwealth authorities and parliamentary departments. Clause 28 provides: 
1 ) Where the Governor-General is satisfied that it is desirable to modify the application of this Act in relation to employees in a Parliamentary Department the GovernorGeneral may make regulations declaring that this Act shall apply to and in relation to employees in the Department subject to specified modifications and adaptations. 
Where the Governor-General is satisfied that it is desirable to modify the application of this Act in relation to employees of a particular prescribed Commonwealth authority, the Governor-General may make regulations declaring that this Act shall apply in relation to employees in that prescribed Commonwealth authority subject to specified modifications and adaptations. 
Debate interrupted. 
Clause 28 also provides: 
In this section- modification' includes the addition or omission of a provision or the substitution of a provision for another provision; 
What that means is that the executive Government can substitute a provision of its own for a provision contained in this Bill. I do not think that that is a proper principle. Parliamentary departments- I think this is something that affects all of us- include the Department of the Senate, the Department of the House of Representatives, the Department of the Parliamentary Library, the Department of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff and the Joint House Department. If we pass this Bill, we will give the executive Government the power to do what it likes in relation to the redeployment and retirement of employees in all of those departments. I do not think that any of us should agree to that principle, which in effect gives carte blanche to the executive Government. Clause 28 is a classic Henry VIII clause. Such clauses have been referred to in this way in the United Kingdom because of the absolutist tendencies of that monarch. In Australia, Henry VIII clauses, with rare exceptions, have been confined to minor matters of detail, lt is objectionable in principle that such clauses should be extended to important matters. All persons who have entered this debate thus far have agreed that this Bill and the matters contained in it are important. 
The question of Henry VIII clauses has been examined by the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. As recently as late last year the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances presented to this House its sixty-fifth report. In that report the Committee drew attention to a provison in the Superannuation Act 1976 which allows regulations to be made modifying the application of that Act to certain employees. The Committee considered that this provision was not unreasonable in view of the complexities of the superannuation legislation, but it recommended that the Senate should closely scrutinise all Henry VIII clauses to ensure that such clauses are passed only where there are good reasons for doing so. The Government, in its second reading speech on this legislation, has not provided a good reason for the inclusion of clause 28, which is a classic Henry VIII clause. I wish to quote directly from the sixty-fifth report of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. On page 2 of that report it is stated: 
They - 
Meaning the provisions- are not objectionable in themselves, but the Committee expresses the opinion that the Senate should closely scrutinize such provisions in Bills to ensure that they are granted to governments only where there are good reasons for doing so. In its report on the scrutiny of Bills the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has drawn attention to the need for the Parliament to ensure that its authority is not unduly delegated. 
I think that honourable senators will appreciate that if we pass this legislation it will provide the Government with an opportunity to modify this Act of Parliament by regulation in any way that is chooses. I suppose  Senator Chaney  will say: 'It is up to either House of Parliament to disallow the regulations'. 

 - Senator Chaney says that he may not say that. Just in case he does say that, I point out to him that experience has shown- the votes will prove this- that it is very difficult for members of any government to turn their backs on that Government and to reject any regulation made by it. There is an additional reason why I feel that this matter ought to be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for examination and report. Clause 28, if agreed to, would give to the Executive Government control over parliamentary staff.  Mr President,  you and those honourable senators who are on the Parliamentary Library Committee and on other committees associated with the operation of this Parliament know as well as I do how jealously we regard our rights; that is, the rights of this Parliament- a body of representative persons directly elected by the people of Australia- against the intrusions of the Executive Government. I believe that clause 28 would give that Executive Government control over the parliamentary staff in respect of the redeployment and retirement matters associated with this Bill. It is a longestablished principle entrenched in the Public Service Act that the Presiding Officers of the Parliament are the controlling officers of the parliamentary staff. I propose to support the amendment but if the amendment is negatived and the motion is agreed to, pursuant to Standing Order 196a, I shall move at the beginning of Committee stage: 
That the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1979 be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: and 
The Committee report to the Senate on or before 3 1 August 1979. 
-In furtherance of what  Senator Evans  has said, I wonder whether, since I understand that the 
Government is intent on getting the legislation through, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  who is at the table, would consider this clause being referred to a committee. That could take place after the Bill had been passed and would not affect its operation in the meantime. I ask him to give consideration to my suggestion. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, deals with the summit meeting in Tokyo of the industrialised nations- the United States, Japan, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Canada and Italy- which is to take place at the end of this month. Is the Minister aware of a statement by the Japanese Prime Minister that energy would be the most urgent problem to be tackled at the Tokyo economic summit in late June? Would the Minister agree that Australia has a unique role in this field, not only in this region but world wide? Is the Minister aware that Japan has lobbied amongst the other summit participants, without success, to have Australia invited to the summit? What steps has the Prime Minister or the Minister for Foreign Affairs taken with those countries to ensure our attendance, and with what result? 
Pursuant to Standing Order 1 96A I move: 
That the Commonwealth Employees ( Redeployment and Retirement) Bill 1979 be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, and that the Committee report to the Senate on or before 3 1 August 1 979. 
During the second reading debate a number of honourable senators referred to concerns that they have about clauses of this Bill. The expressions of concern were not confined to this side of the House; they were also expressed on the other side of the House. I recall  Senator Hamer's  speech, in which he said that if the Bill passed into law he would move in this House for disallowance of regulations made under one particular clause of the Bill.  Senator Knight  also expressed some concern about the regulatory powers provided under the Bill. Both honourable senators believe that they should support the legislation now. They put down as their reasons- certainly  Senator Hamer  put down as one of his reasons- the fiasco of the on-off industrial stoppage on Tuesday of last week. 
Incidentally, I make it perfectly clear to other honourable senators who have referred to that matter that I do not in any shape or form blame the general membership of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association for that fiasco. My remarks were directed particularly at the Australian Capital Territory branch leadership. When union officials talk big and act weak, we call them 'bar room militants', although in this case I think one might refer to them as 'white wine whingers' or 'Volvo socialists'. I appeal to Government senators to put that matter out of their minds and to realise that there are a number of regulatory provisions in this Bill which should not be allowed to pass this Senate without further scrutiny. 

 Mr President, I put it to you that if this Senate has any respect for its standing committees it should refer the whole of the legislation to one of them. I also put it to you that if senators jealously guard the rights of the Parliament against the intrusion of the Executive Government, then they must thoroughly examine the provisions of this Bill- in particular, clause 28. It was very significant that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney),  in responding to the second reading debate, did not advert to the matters that were raised specifically relating to clause 28 of the Bill. I charge the Minister that he has ignored that. I believe that if he were consistent in the principles that he has held to during his terms in this Senate, he would not allow clause 28 to go through in its present form. 
Clause 28 is a classic 'Henry VIII' clause. It provides to the Executive Government the ability to make regulations to substitute any of its own provisions for the provisions in this Bill with respect to redeployment and retirement of a prescribed Commonwealth authority- or the departments of the Parliament including the Senate. Surely, any red-blooded senator would not be prepared to allow that to go by without a whimper. What does it say? It says that so far as the Department of the Senate, the Department of the House of Representatives, the Department of the Parliamentary Library, the Department of the Parliamentary Reporting Staff and the Joint House Department are concerned the Government will have the power to make regulations in respect of the particular matters to which this Bill is related.  Mr President,  I put it to you that you have a responsibility to protect the rights of Parliament in this matter. As enshrined in the Public Service Act the presiding officers are responsible in this area. This piece of legislation is attempting to take that responsibility,  Mr President,  through you out of our hands and place it into the hands of the Executive Government. So far as the Parliament is concerned I believe that that is not on and should not be on so far as the Senate is concerned. 
What about the honourable senators who crow about the work that standing committees do? Where are they going to be when this amendment is passed? For example, where will  Senator Rae  be? I am sorry that he is not in the chamber at the moment. Where will honourable senators be who are on the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances? They are  Senator Missen,  who is overseas,  Senator Bonner, Senator Cavanagh, Senator Evans, Senator Georges, Senator Hamer,  and  Senator Lewis.  What did they have to say about these Henry VIII' clauses? In the sixty-fifth report dated November last year they said: 
The Committee expresses the opinion that the Senate should closely scrutinise such provisions in Bills - 
That refers to the regulatory provisions-  to ensure that they are granted to Governments only where there are good reasons Tor doing so. 
In its report on the scrutiny of Bills the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has drawn attention to the need for the Parliament to ensure that its authority is not unduly delegated. Honourable senators ought to read again what this Standing Committee has said; it has said that such regulatory provisions should not be in respect of important matters. Is this an important matter or is it not? The Minister in reply to the second reading debate said that it is a very important matter because the Public Service is important to all of us. I put it to you,  Mr President,  in particular, and to other honourable senators that we should refer this Bill to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for examination and report. If the whole of the Bill is not referred to that Committee at least clause 28 should be referred for report prior to 3 1 August 1 979. 
I am not going to say a great deal, but I want the Government to listen very carefully to what I say and to take it back to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and to the Cabinet. The legislation that is before us is a further blow to families, particularly to the single low income family. These families and families as a whole have been reeling from the lack of attention given to them and from the failure of the Government to restore the value of family allowances which, as a result of cost increases, have been eroded by 32 per cent since they were introduced in 1976. The Prime Minister at that stage said, in his memory, those allowances were the greatest policy initiatives ever taken on behalf of families. But when they were analysed subsequently it was seen that they really meant nothing. There was no advancement because of the abolition of the rebate scheme. Still the allowances have not been restored to their original value and still they have not been indexed. The spouse's rebate stands still at $597, which is about what a farmer can claim for two sheepdogs, I think. Amongst other things, the high cost of housing for families is continuing. But this Bill scraps the 40 per cent Commonwealth subsidy on doctors' fees and implements moves which will increase bed charges in public hospitals by 25 per cent. Of course medical and hospital insurance fees will skyrocket, and this will be a further blow to families. 
I want to say this: There will possibly come a time when my vote in this chamber may affect the continued existence of a particular government. Unless the Government takes urgent action to do what it said it would do, that is, support the family, I certainly will be viewing my position. Many Government statements have been made. Cabinet leaks have indicated that there will be income splitting for the purposes of taxation and that possible action will be taken to help families. All these things have raised expectations amongst the families of Australia. I know because I get the feedback very strongly. The Government would be well advised to heed these cries from the families who are being disaffected and take remedial action. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and concerns the very large number of Australians who, because of being profoundly deaf or having severely impaired hearing, find it most difficult to understand television news broadcasts. Some years ago the Australian Deafness Council raised this matter with the Australian Broadcasting Commission and with commercial television stations and suggested that captions be used during the broadcast of television news, as is the case in the United States of America and the United Kingdom. Is the Minister prepared to take up this matter with the Australian Broadcasting Commission and, indeed, with the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal so that the Tribunal can consider the matter when granting licences? Will the Minister be in a position to make an announcement on this matter during Australian Deafness Awareness Week, which will be the first week in October? 
The Senate is debating the Tasmanian Native Forestry Agreement Bill 1979. If that Bill becomes law it will authorise the execution of an agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of Tasmania as set out in the schedule to the Bill. I am not here to canvass that particular agreement. That is an agreement which was worked out between the State of Tasmania and the Commonwealth. I will be supporting the legislation, but I will do so with some reservations and some suggestions. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to authorise the execution of an agreement between the Commonwealth and the State and to enable the flow of the amount of money per year for a period of five years for a forestry program to ensure that raw materials are available to future forest products industries. I think that the amount of $ 1 36,000 per year for the initial year commencing 1 July 1 978 is niggardly. But as I say, I do not want to canvass the terms of the agreement. I do want to draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that this arises out of one of the recommendations by  Sir Bede  Callaghan in his report 'Inquiry into the Structure of Industry and the Employment Situation in Tasmania'. On page 121 of that report  Sir Bede  Callaghan had this to say: 
In the preceding paragraph but one, I mentioned reafforestation. Earlier, reference was made to a submission by the Tasmanian Timber Association to the effect that there is a need fora program of hardwood regeneration. 
He continued: 
I am not a forester but general knowledge suggests Australia, and particularly Tasmania, may be in a most promising position if appropriate action is taken now. That is to say, world prospects some decades ahead are such as to warrant, as I understand the situation, the closest study of action in Tasmania with a view to ensuring a suitable supply of hardwood in due course. 
This Bill is a first attempt to implement that proposal. As I mentioned before, it is to initiate a program or ensure that there will be Commonwealth funding for a program for native forestries to assist in ensuring the supply of raw materials to future forest products industries. 
Much has been said, including something last night by  Senator Knight  on the adjournment debate, about the possibility of the transfer of the Division of Forest Research of the CSIRO from Canberra to Tasmania. Personally, I would welcome that transfer. However, I do not wish to go into that today because I believe that will be dealt with by the inquiry that is currently being undertaken by Professor Pryor. Tasmania is represented on that inquiry. Nevertheless, I do believe that, at least at this point in time, there is an urgent need to develop and to reinforce the branch- the very small branch- of the Division of Forest Research of the CSIRO which is now in Tasmania, pending the outcome of that inquiry. I leave that aside. 
I believe that a very important project would be the re-establishment of the Division of Forest Products of the CSIRO. That would be of major benefit to Tasmania. After all, what are we talking about? We are talking about the need to service forest products- structural timber, decorative hardwood and softwood, pulp, fine writing paper, newsprint, particle board, hardboard, plywood and wood chips for export. Tasmanian timber is amongst the best in the world but, as was pointed out by the Tasmanian Timber Association, both to the Callaghan inquiry and to the Birch inquiry, Tasmanian timber is amongst the most difficult to season. I ask the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  to give urgent consideration to the proposition that the Division of Forest Products should be reestablished within the CSIRO and should be sited in Tasmania. Of course, that is quite a different matter from the one raised last night. 
As the Senate would know, until 1973 there was an excellent relationship with the old Division of Forest Products, as it was known then. In 1973, for reasons which escape me, that division was abolished. Its functions were supposed to have been taken over by the Division of Building Research and by the Division of Chemical Technology, both located in Melbourne. My advice is that at least the sawmilling section of the timber industry, not just in Tasmania but in the whole of Australia, is not being well served as a result of the abolition of the Division of Forest Products. Indeed, the general viewpoint amongst the whole of the industry is that it would be better served now if the Division of Forest Products were re-established and that, because of the circumstances within Tasmania, it was sited in that State. I draw the Minister's attention to the following statement which appears at page 81 of the report of the Independent Inquiry into the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Birch inquiry: 
The situation in Tasmania merits special mention. We formed the opinion that present arrangements are unsatisfactory from a number of standpoints, including internal CSIRO communications and a lack of focus in the rather fragmented research activities there. 
I stress the words 'a lack of focus in the rather fragmented research activities there'. The report continued: 
We note the submissions from the forest products industry and that forest products encompass Tasmania 's largest secondary industries. We believe that consideration should be given to the relocation of forest and related research activities as a Division to Tasmania, as a means of alleviating the major problems experienced by CSIRO there and permitting the organised development of a broad range of CSIRO activities in that State. 
I consider that the re-establishment of the Division of Forest Products and its location in Tasmania would be welcomed within both the CSIRO and the whole of the industry. It goes without saying that certainly it would be a most welcome step for the Government to take as far as my State of Tasmania is concerned. I support the legislation. 
This matter has been amply dealt with by the  chairman  of the parliamentary group of Amnesty International,  Senator Missen,  who has just spoken. I simply wish to identify myself with the appeal made by him to the Government for it to take up with the Czechoslovakian authorities the express wishes of members of the Senate, and hopefully of the Government, that the appeals that are now coming from all parts of the world are heeded by the Czechoslovakian authorities to ensure that these people who are under arrest and detention prior to trial are released and that their rights are preserved and safeguarded. These detainees have attracted broad support from a broad spectrum of political opinion. The  New Statesman,  a paper not regarded for its rabid conservatism, has already been adverted to by  Senator Missen.  In its edition of 3 August 1 979 it makes this point: 
One difference between the present situation and the show trials of the fifties is that the present government- more sensitive than in the Stalinist period to international opinionseeks to conceal many of the trials it mounts. This has been especially true of scores of small trials involving workers and young people in provincial towns throughout the country. The bulk of the work in which VONS- 
That is the organisation of which these detainees are members: has been engaged has been documenting not the plight of internationally known figures such as Havel, but revealing the names and oppression of people of whom the outside world would never otherwise have heard. It is this which has been most offensive to the authorities. For every Havel for whose trial they were resigned to international criticism they hoped also to try several hundred people whose names meant nothing outside their home towns and whose predicament would attract no attention. VONS helped frustrate that aim. 
We are talking here about prisoners of conscience. We are talking about prisoners who have been adopted by Amnesty International. I might say, in furtherance of the comment that I made about these prisoners attracting a support from a broad political spectrum, that late in July the National Executive Committee of the British Labour Party did, in fact, back the Charter 77 Defence Fund. It is being sought from that fund to provide support for these people to ensure their basic human rights. I support  Senator Missen.  I congratulate him on bringing this matter forward to the notice of the Senate and hope that the Government will take the matter up with the Czechoslovakian authorities. 
I do not wish to launch into a second reading speech,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  nor would you allow me to do so. 
You can get away with it. We are dealing with clause 16 ofthe Bill and the associated Schedule which amends the amounts of compensation now payable. I agree with what has been said. The amounts that are proposed are inadequate in that they do not reflect even the increases in the consumer price index since the last occasion on which the amounts were fixed. In other words, they do not restore for the injured person the value of the amount which was determined at the time as being fair and reasonable to compensate that person for injury arising out of or in the course of the employment. That is the first point, and that is why I agree with the amendment. 
Whilst I am on that point, I draw the attention of the Senate to the possibility of a fire occurring on Commonwealth property- for example, at an airport- and I assume that Federal fire fighters are covered by the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act. Those fire fighters, who would be involved in rescuing people from the conflagration at the airportpeople who perhaps are employed by hire car firms and are under State awards- may sustain injuries while rescuing an already injured person covered by a State Act, such as the workers compensation Act in my State. Under this proposal, they would be paid substantially less than the persons whom they are rescuing, and in the State compensation legislation there is an escalation clause to ensure that the value of the amount is not eroded by increases in costs. That is a ludicrous situation and one which I believe the Government ought to look at. The present proposal is worse, as I see it, than the schemes in all but one of the States and, as I understand it, that State is in the process of increasing its rates to compensate for the erosion caused by increases in the consumer price index. 
They are all indexed, as  Senator Grimes  says, and that is the other point. I would not mind if the Minister were to stand up now and say that the words 'or such higher amount as is prescribed ' in the Schedule mean that regulations will be made by the Government every quarter to adjust the rate for movements in the consumer price index or some other figure acceptable to this Parliament. I would not mind if the Minister were to get up and say that, but in the absence of some explanation of the meaning of the term 'or such higher amount as is prescribed', the Minister is asking us to buy a pig-in-a-poke. The Senate itself has suggested that that is an unworthy exercise and one which is likely to rebound. Might I draw the Senate's attention to the 65th report of our own Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, which was tabled in Parliament last session. The Committee drew attention to the danger of this type of clause and to the fact that the Executive government ought not to be allowed a free hand to modify an Act by regulation, thus depriving the elected members of Parliament of their rights. As I said, I would be quite happy to forgo my right if the Minister were to ,:ve me a satisfactory statement as to the meaning of the term 'or such higher amount as is prescribed '. Failing any such explanation, I propose to vote for the amendment moved by  Senator Grimes. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, concerns the drug Depo-Provera whose technical name is medroxyprogesterone acetate. 
I have the approval of the pharmaceutical profession for that pronunciation. My question concerns its prescription as a so-called long-lasting injectable contraceptive. Has the Minister noticed reports of adverse side effects of such an application of the drug? Is it a fact that the Department of Health has sent a letter to family planning clinics saying that they may use it as a contraceptive after obtaining the informed consent of the client? Is the Minister aware that a number of drug control authorities throughout the world have refused to endorse such a use of the drug and, specifically, that the Food and Drug Administration of the United States refused to endorse it after its attention had been drawn to the fact that the drug was associated with cancer, temporary or permanent involuntary chemical sterility and birth defects in children? Could the Minister say how the action of the Department of Health squares with that refusal by the Food and Drug Administration and other drug control authorities? 
Very briefly, I invite members of the Senate to refer to the debate recorded on pages 165 to 168 of the Senate  Hansard  of 17 August 1978. 1 think  the response has been altogether out of proportion to what was said on that occasion. I emphasise that I said on that occasion that I had a wide circle of friends who were Yugoslavs, Slovenes and Croatians. It is not for me to enter into, nor do I desire to enter into, deep discussions or to take sides on any question of difference. The main reason why I quoted from the roneoed document which was sent to all senators and which was the property of all senators was to support the argument, which I think is supported by all honourable senators, that no disadvantages should be incurred by Australian citizens by reason of dual nationality. Clearly, there were disadvantages in the case that was mentioned. 
While I am on my feet I would like to support what  Senator Tate  said about the difficulties being experienced by the Registrar in Bankruptcy in Hobart. I urge the responsible Minister to treat this matter as a matter of great importance and urgency. 1 had occasion last week and this week to raise officially the plight of a number of employees of a particular bankrupt. Those employees are in very dire circumstances. The money is there for them to be paid but it is not being paid to them. For what reasons it is not being paid, I do not know.  Senator Tate  obviously has more information than I do, but I understand that the person concerned, whom he mentioned, sought a job in the office of the Commonwealth Ombudsman and has been appointed to it. That will leave a very great gap in the office of the Registrar in Bankruptcy in Hobart. 
I am considering reporting this matter to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council and the State branch of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. If they get such a report they will not muck around. Members of unions are waiting for their just pay. Their colleagues are not going to allow the situation to exist in an industry whereby because one person in that industry goes bankrupt his employees have to wait months and months for their pay. Their mates are not going to stand around doing nothing. They are not going to allow that industry to operate if those circumstances occur and people go bankrupt in that industry. We can finesse all we like, but these people are entitled to their just payment. It is long overdue. I believe that the way in which to overcome this is for the Minister urgently to recruit sufficient people in Tasmania to do the job and, in the meantime, to send down experienced officers to clear up the backlog in our State. 
-! move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator O'Byrne  from making a statement for 10 minutes and then  Senator Harradine  from making a statement for 10 minutes. 

 - Mr President, I again claim that I have been misrepresented, this time by  Senator 
Cavanagh, who said that I sought to misrepresent the position by seeking to have a letter incorporated in  Hansard.  He alleges that  Mr Currie  personally does not support what was written in that letter. That is a total misrepresentation. 
It is a misrepresentation of me. 

 - Mr President-- 

I understand that.  Senator Cavanagh  said that I misrepresented the letter. I say that I did not misrepresent the letter.  Mr Currie  signed it. He voted for the resolution. On Monday night of this week a similar resolution was unanimously carried by the Trustees and Management Committee calling upon the Leader of the Opposition to dissociate himself from  Senator O  'Byrne's allegations in respect of the funds of the Trades Hall. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I had not intended to enter this debate. I had not given you my name,  Mr President,  nor the Whips. I do not think that under Standing Orders I am required to do that. In fact, I am sure that I am not required to do it. I am obliged to rise to my feet because of certain statements that have been made by  Senator Walsh  on the matter of parliamentary privilege. I believe that since the Opposition has raised this question of parliamentary privilege, it is an appropriate time for me to state quite categorically that a concerted attempt is being made by a back bench member of the Opposition in this House and a back bench member of the Australian Labor Party Government in Tasmania to vilify and character assassinate members of the trade union movement in respect of moneys that were provided by the State Government for trade union training purposes. 

 - Mr President, I understand that it is not the first reading stage and that you have to give certain latitudes. You have given latitudes to  Senator Walsh  in respect of certain statements that were made by the former Minister for Primary Industry in the House of Representatives the week before last. Since that matter was raised I intend to speak to this Bill in respect of allegations that have been made, not about loan money but about grant money which now has been found to have been - 

 - Mr President, following upon the theme that was adopted by  Senator Walsh  and allowed by you, I simply say that I hope the Leader of the Opposition is in future able to ensure that there is no further abuse of parliamentary privilege by members of his party in this Senate; and that includes  Senator O'Byrne  who just rose to his feet. 
In regard to the Loan Bill I believe that the ability of the Government to meet its payments, as demanded by its commitments to defence and social security, have not been or are not being met out of general revenue received by the Government through ordinary taxation measures. If we are to maintain a decent defence force- which I believe we do not have at this present moment- and if we are to meet the challenges that will face us in the 1980s then we of course have to ensure that we have enough money for that purpose. Much has been said about the need to close taxation gaps and the cheating that goes on in regard to taxation. Arrangements have been made to avoid taxation. I am not talking about the little avoidances, 1 am talking about the major robberies that have taken place, the hundreds of thousands of dollars of tax that individuals are able to avoid paying. This Bill seeks to overcome that sort of shortfall and the Government is asking the Senate to pass it. 
One of the things that the Government must do in respect of its outgoings is to fund education. Education is a very important aspect of funding. I refer not only to the traditional education that is normally thought of, such as primary, secondary and tertiary education, but also to education in the broad sense. I refer to the question of trade union education. One of the matters which is contained in the Budget and for which the Government is providing substantial funds is the area of trade union education through the Trade Union Training Authority. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I thought I was doing so. The Government has a commitment to trade union education through the Trade Union Training Authority. Substantial sums have been made available in the Budget for that purpose. The purpose of this legislation is to allow for the borrowing of loan moneys to make up the difference between what the Government can receive from its ordinary taxation sources and its expenditure. One of the areas of expenditure is of course trade union training. The Government was not seen off for the amount of $55,000 as was previously alleged by  Senator O'Byrne  and published by the Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union in its newsletter. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I believe that the Government has a responsibility to ensure that its programs are properly and adequately funded. I feel that it ought to live or attempt to live within its means and continue to block off the unjustified manipulation of the taxation system by some of those companies and partnerships that are getting away with blue murder in that area. If it were able to do that I believe it would come to us on fewer occasions with the type of legislation that we have before us tonight. I consider that there will be an opportunity- I believe there has been a public opportunity- for the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate to ensure that what has occurred in this chamber does not occur again. That would prove whether he has got the strength of leadership or is too weak to ensure that that does not happen.  Mr President,  I conclude my remarks. 

 - Mr Chairman, it is over an hour now since the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  asked 16 questions of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick). 
You have not got an answer. The Leader of the Opposition agreed to the suggestion by the Leader of the Government in the Senate that detailed responses to these questions would be provided to the Opposition, and indeed to the Senate, after the Bill was passed. That was accepted by the Leader of the Opposition. I just wonder why the Opposition now seeks to delay this particular Bill. 
It is the first time in three and a half years that a Bill of this nature has taken this amount of time. I do not know about previous years, because I was not here. I speak merely from my own experience, and this is the first time in my memory that such a long time has been taken over this type of legislation. One has to ask oneself why, and one has to come to the conclusion that members of the Opposition, with the cognisance of the Leader of the Opposition, are allowing  Senator O'Byrne  time to prepare statements which he and they will regret. 

 - Senator O'Byrne requested time to make certain statements while our proceedings were being broadcast and I foreshadowed that I would enable that to take place. I cannot perceive of any other reason why - 
Leave granted. 

 - Senator O'Byrne convicts himself out of - 
-Senator O 'Byrne and the honourable senator who has just spoken have convicted themselves out of their own mouths.  Senator O  'Byrne - 

 Government senators interjecting- 

I now have only five minutes - 
I now have only five minutes in which to-- 
-Senator O'Byrne has convicted himself out of his own mouth. He continues his pattern of extraordinary allegations against trade union officials in my State and his State. This trade union training program was very successful. It was funded by the State Government to the extend of $55,000. All of that money has been accounted for. The AuditorGeneral, in his annual report, stated this. I seek leave to incorporate part of the report in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

TASMANIAN TRADES AND LABOUR COUNCIL 
Trade Union Training Program 
State Government grants totalling $55,000 were made available to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council for a Trade Union Training program under the Consolidated Revenue Appropriation Acts for the years 1973-74 to 1977-78. 
Statement of Income and Expenditure for the period 2 1 January 1 974 to 28 February 1 979 has received my qualified certificate. The qualification related to expenditure of $7,949 which was not supported by vouchers. Notwithstanding the qualification, Audit was reasonably satisfied that the expenditure had been properly incurred on the approved purpose of the grants. 
Expenditure for the period totalled $50,822 of which $33,064 was reimbursed by the Commonwealth, whilst Income also included Interest $5,558 and Miscellaneous Receipts $527. The unexpended balance at 28 February 1979 amounted to $43,327. 1 have sought the advice of the Minister for Education as to his intentions in regard to the unexpended balance of the State Government Grants still held by the Council. 
1 thank the Senate. The report shows clearly that those who conducted the audit were satisfied that the expenditure had been properly incurred on the approved purposes of the grant. The Premier of Tasmania said this morning that it appeared that only a relatively small expenditure had taken place. He ought to read his Auditor-General 's report which shows that expenditure for the period totalled $50,822. So good was the program that it attracted a reimbursement from the Commonwealth. 

 Senator O'Byrne has continued his attack on trade union officials in my State. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that, on 27 and 28 February,  Senator O'Byrne  used the words crooks' and 'fingers were caught in the till'. He has been convicted out of his own mouth. On that occasion, he said: 'This was after  Senator Harradine  had organised to cash in on the Trades Hall building'. He accused me of knocking off$55,000. That is chicken feed. The Trades Hall building was sold for about $500,000. That is the sort of ridiculous accusation that has been made. That is not only a reflection on me; that is a reflection on long-standing trade union officials in my State. That is a reflection on all of the trustees of the Trades Hall Trustees and Management Committee, five of whom have a combined service in the trade union movement of nearly 200 years. I seek to have incorporated in  Hansard  a letter from the Secretary of the Trades Hall Trustees and Management Committee,  Mr N.  A. Currie. This letter was sent to all senators to show how false the statement by  Senator O'Byrne  was. 
I had the approval of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  for its incorporation. The letter states: 
The Trades Hall Trustees and Management Committee wishes to draw the attention of the Senate  President  and Senators that  Senator O'Byrne's  contribution to the Adjournment Debate two weeks ago- 
This letter was dated 26 March 1979:  displayed total ignorance of matters relating to the Trades Hall Building which are the property of this Committee. 
I believe that the opportunity is here and now for  Senator O'Byrne  to do the decent thing and to withdraw those allegations. 
This is the opportunity to clear the names- I do not mind about my name- of those trade union officials in my State who have dedicated their lives to the trade union movement and indeed to the Labor Party. I believe that they are owed an apology and a retraction by  Senator O'Byrne.  Indeed, if he is not prepared to give that apology and make that retraction I believe it to be incumbent upon the Opposition as a whole to dissociate itself from that totally false accusation. I will say no more because I feel - 
Since I have been invited to, I will say a couple of things more. It is quite disturbing to see what has occurred in this Parliament tonight. The Opposition allowed time for  Senator Justin  O'Byrne to renew the type of vilification that has now been proven wrong. I warned, when I got to my feet, that the Leader of the Opposition and members of the Opposition would regret what  Senator O'Byrne  was about to say. As I recall, he used such terms as interception of cheques, forging documents, false pretenses, possession of funds reasonably suspected to be stolen and misappropriation of government funds. Who is he attacking? He is attacking not only me but also the Tasmanian Labor Government and the integrity of the Auditor-General of that State. He is also attacking the Education Department of the State. The Senate, as a States House, has a right and responsibility to ensure that officers of the Crown are protected. The Senate, as a States House, has the responsibility in this instance not only of protecting the names of individuals who have been vilified but also of protecting the institutions that are necessary for the State to function. I invite the Opposition now, as indeed have the trustees, to dissociate itself from the remarks of  Senator O'Byrne. 

 Senator O'BYRNE (Tasmania  )-Mr President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented.  Senator Harradine  made a statement about the Trades Hall Management Committee. I want to read out and have incorporated in  Hansard  a letter from the Building Tradesman's Association, Room 1 1, Trades Hall, 'Carolside', which reads: 

 Senator Justin O'Byrne, P.O. Box 323, Launceston. Dear  Sir, 
At a meeting 'held by the above Association on 13 March 1979, the following resolution was passed unanimously. That the Building Tradesman's Association views with concern-- 
I raise a point of order. Could  Senator O'Byrne  suggest how he has been misrepresented? 
A  Senator who  has spoken to a Question may again be heard, to explain himself in regard to some material part of his speech which has been misquoted or misunderstood, but shall not introduce any new matter . . . 
I ask whether there is any possibility that the honourable senator could be introducing new matter and, if so, whether that would be contrary to the provisions of the Standing Order? 
A Document quoted from by a  Senator not  a Minister of the Crown may be ordered by the Senate to be laid upon the Table: such Order may be made without Notice immediately upon the conclusion of the speech of the  Senator who  has quoted therefrom. 
Under that Standing Order, I call upon  Senator O'Byrne  to lay the document on the table of the Senate and I move: 
That the document quoted from By  Senator O'Byrne  be laid upon the table. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the Minister done anything about a letter received from the Glamorgan Municipality requesting assistance for the establishment of a permanent all-weather airstrip at Swansea on the east coast of Tasmania? Is the Minister aware of the difficulties that the current situation in that area often causes in urgent cases? For example, in that area there are vast logging, forestry and associated industries. It is also on one of the main tourist tracks. Is the Minister aware that the airstrip that is used currently is on a property, that it is in an area which is subject to bogging and that sometimes it is stocked, with consequent hazards? Has the Minister any information that he can give the Senate in respect of the request from the Glamorgan Municipality? 

 - Mr President, I move: 
That consideration of Government Business, Order of the Day No. 2, relating to the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1979- 
I seek leave to move a motion. 
I am happy to explain my purpose in seeking leave to move a particular motion. It was not possible for me to advise the Government of it because I voted for the previous proposal. I am moving it only to get out of the way the objections of the Government to the previous motion so that it can consider the proposition that I am about to put forward. The Government had two problems with the previous motion. The first was that there was no time for the matter to come on for debate. The second was that it focussed undue attention on a meeting of members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, presumably for the purpose of having private discussions with the Government. Therefore, I seek leave to move: 
That consideration of Government Business, Order of the Day No. 2, relating to the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1 979, be postponed and be made an Order of the Day for Tuesday, 23 October 1 979. 
That is the next sitting day but one. I seek leave to move that motion. 
Somewhat facetiously I asked  Senator Georges  how he could oppose clause 1 of the Bill. Clause I of the Bill states: 
This Act may be cited as the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Act 1979. 
I have just refreshed my mind as to the object of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904. 1 have also just refreshed my mind as to the provisions of this Bill. In no way can this Bill be squared with the objects of the Act. Therefore in no way can the Bill be called in any shape or form the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill. I do not want to go on on this sort of angle because I am going to prove clause by clause that that is the case. I think it is better for that to be done at the appropriate time on each clause.  Mr Chairman,  am I in order in asking the Minister responsible, in respect of clause 2, when the Government proposes that the Bill receive royal assent? 
Thank you,  Mr Chairman.  I have just been given the green light that I am in order to ask the Minister when the Government intends that this Bill receive the royal assent. If we sit until 6 o'clock in the morning, will the Governor-General be woken at half past six to give his royal assent to this Bill? What is the situation? What is the hurry? 
Yes, what is the urgency? I think the Government ought to bring us into its confidence. If there is some urgency, let us look at that and see whether we ought to report progress now or go through the whole of the Committee stage. 
I did not realise that we were dealing with other than clause 3. 1 go to the question of the restrictions that are placed in proposed new section 2 5 A. 
Yes. I refer to clause 4. I will be extremely brief. I ask the AttorneyGeneral to advise the Senate about proposed new section 25A, which concerns payments in respect of matters involving strikes- that is, strike pay. Does he conceive that that could not be an industrial dispute? Clearly it is an industrial dispute within the meaning of the Act. That proposition prevents the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission from dealing with an industrial dispute. Is that not inconsistent with the objects of the Act, which quite clearly state the purposes for the settlement of industrial disputes? Clearly by this legislation the Attorney-General would conceive that strike pay issues could be an industrial dispute within the meaning of the Act. This would prevent their settlement. Is that not quite contrary to the objects of the Act? 
My question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, relates to allegations made yesterday in the House of Representatives by the honourable member for Hindmarsh concerning the raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation by former  Senator Murphy,  which this morning have received wide Press coverage. I was not present when the allegations were made and do not know whether the honourable member for Hindmarsh was serious or was sending the whole thing up in his inimitable, whimsical fashion. Would the Attorney-General, based on his knowledge of events in 1973, respond to the specific allegations that Croatians had intended to put cyanide in the air-conditioning system of the Lakeside Hotel, that an interdepartmental committee had told the late  Senator Greenwood  to lie to the Senate and that  Senator Murphy  had found it difficult to obtain a seat on a plane to travel to Melbourne to raid the ASIO headquarters because ASIO had booked all of the empty seats by making phantom bookings? 
-I was not going to speak but the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  has mentioned that he hopes that I will support the Opposition in voting against this proposition. I will support the Government's proposition provided that the Government is able to ensure that there is no gagging of the debate and that it is able to assure the Senate that the understandings reached between the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and  Sir John  Moore are upheld. I have a speakers' list before me. If every one listed speaks for only half an hour- there are some lawyers on the list and I cannot conceive of their speaking for only half an hour- we are going to get to the second reading vote at 11.15 p.m. tonight. Either the Government intends to truncate the second reading debate and leave sufficient time for detailed consideration in committee or it intends to truncate the committee stage. In either event, unless the Government can give a guarantee that that will not happen, I will vote against its particular proposal. I believe that the Government does have the right to submit to the Senate that there is legislation which it wants to get through. It has the right to suggest to the Senate and to the members of the Senate that Government business take precedence over General Business. I am third last on the speakers' list. I will be saying something about this legislation which has not been said in the House of Representatives, publicly or in this chamber. I will be able to speak that as the only officer of a major national union of over 150,000 members who has daily contact with either the judicial, arbitral or the administrative organisations established under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I will be pointing out that I understand the motivation of the Government. I understand that there are problems that have arisen in respect to consistency of decisions, but the Government has not got the moral courage to precisely state those to the community and to bring legislation here in the light of that public revelation. 

 Mr President, whether I am able to say that in the Senate will depend on whether the Government intends to truncate the second reading debate. I would like to know whether the Government intends to do that. If it does intend to truncate the debate I say that it is acting inconsistently with the understandings reached by the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  with  Sir John  Moore. I quote from the last sentence of the Minister's statement. He says: 

 Sir John asked when the legislation was expected to be passed through the Senate. I - that is the Minister- replied that the legislation would be dealt with in the normal way, but that the actual timing was of course in the hands of the Senate. 
Okay. I presume that  Sir John  Moore would have understood the normal way of debate in this chamber to be that any senator who wishes to speak on a second reading debate would normally be allowed to have his say. 
And as  Senator McClelland  said, 'in the committee stage too', or particularly in the committee stage with a piece of legislation like this. I do not know whether the Minister is going to retreat from the indication given by the Minister for Industrial Relations to the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on this most important matter. If he is not going to do that I see no reason why he should not stand in his place and say: 'Yes, this matter will be dealt with by the Senate in the normal way. There will not be a truncation, a gagging of the debate'. If there is a gagging of debate there is only one conclusion to which people can come, that is, that the Government intends that its normal way of operating in this chamber will be by gagging debates. No honourable senator ought to allow that to occur. 
-In view of the time I rise to speak briefly on this legislation. I hope that detailed consideration will be available to the Senate in the Committee stage of the debate. May I in this second reading debate recall to the Senate the proposed changes the Government seeks to bring about by this Bill for an Act to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The changes proposed by the Bill cover a requirement for consultation by commissioners, the jurisdiction of the Commission to award strike pay, the manner of dealing with stand-down applications, reference of matters to a Full Bench, the withdrawal of matters by the  President  from a single member of the Commission, and the deregistration of unions. There are some other changes relating to maritime industries, the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal and so on.  (Quorum formed). 
First let me direct my attention to clause 3 of the Bill which seeks to insert proposed new section 22a into the Principal Act. That clause contains the requirement of consultative provisions. To my mind this clause represents an overreaction to the problems which all those of us in the industrial jurisdiction recognise exist. We do recognise that those problems exist, but this provision surely is an overreaction. There are industrial, legal and constitutional objections to the type of suggestion that is proposed in clause 3 to overcome the problem that we all know exists. The Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  stated in his second reading speech: 
The proposed consultative process is designed to provide greater co-ordination and consistency in decision-making within the Commission. 
Yet in the document which was tabled in the Senate today by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  concerning the meeting of the Minister for Industrial Relations with  Sir John  Moore, the Minister states that he assured  Sir John  that under the proposed legislation the Commissioners would not be subject to direction by a  deputy president,  nor would their decision be subject to approval by a  deputy president.  In other words this is a machinery process which the  President  himself obviously is empowered to initiate if he considers it desirable. As we all know, the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission regularly has discussions not only with his  deputy  Presidents and the heads of panels but also with the individual commissioners. These people do not have to consult with the  President  on wage indexation guidelines; they already know the policy of the Commission. 
So, why is there this proposal requiring commissioners to consult in matters of wages and working conditions? The industrial objection is to be found in three areas. First of all I refer to the delays which would undoubtedly occur. On this aspect the document tabled by  Senator Durack  states: 

 Sir John then raised the question of the working of the Commission itself. He pointed out that the proposed consultative procedures could result in delays in getting final decisions in some instances, and asked whether the requirement to consult might be limited in order to lessen this problem. 
In reply, the Minister for Industrial Relations pointed out that the object of the consultative procedures was to get the maximum possible consistency in principle in the decision-making of the Commission. The statement continues: 
.  Sir John  said that he would expect the consultative requirements would put an extra work load on the Commission. If the Commission were to carry out its work effectively, and with minimum delays to the parties before it, more people would be required on the Commission. 
As I mentioned by interjection this morning when  Senator Bishop  was speaking- I commend him for his practical analysis of this piece of legislation- the very fact that more persons have to be appointed to the Commission opens the way for further inconsistencies. The first industrial objection to that proposal is the question of delays, as  Sir John  has pointed out. The old axiom, well known amongst industrial circles, of justice delayed is justice denied ' is one which we ought to keep in mind when we are considering this clause. 
The second objection to the provision is that in the eyes of the practitioner the authority of the individual commissioner will be severely damaged and diminished. I am a national official of a major union which is in almost daily contact before either the arbitral or the judicial organisations created under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. I have participated as a union advocate before members of the Commission. I have had to do so on some very interesting cases. I have had a number of witnesses- fellows off the job- who wanted to be sure that their case was heard and that their case was determined by the person who heard it. There is also an old adage that he who decides must also hear. If a matter concerning money is involved, this Bill requires the commissioner to consult with the  deputy president,  the head of the panel. Imagine what those fellows off the job would say. In negotiations with, for example, industrial officers I have known them to say: 'If you cannot give us a decision, take us to the managing director. We do not want to see the cabin boy, we want to see the captain'. We will get this sort of confrontation on a practical basis and it will be the opening gambit. I know quite a large number of union officials who will make that the opening gambit. 
Nothing at all. It will be a natural reaction. I believe that that provision is likely to impede the efficient and effective operation of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and to jeopardise industrial relations. I do not propose to go into the legal or constitutional objections to that provision. These have been canvassed elsewhere. I do not suppose any of us here would suggest that this Parliament is the body which will ultimately determine the legality or constitutionality of those provisions. 
As I mentioned previously, the second point covered by the Bill deals with the jurisdiction of the Commission regarding strike pay. That is provided for in clause 4 of the Bill, which seeks to insert after section 25 of the principal Act the following new section: 25a. The Commission is not empowered to make an award, certify a memorandum of agreement, make a recommendation or take any other action, whether by way of conciliation or arbitration, in respect of a claim for the making of a payment to employees in respect of a period during which those employees were engaged in industrial action. 
In my view, again there are industrial, legal and constitutional objections to that suggested proposal. Again I deal from a practical point of view only with the industrial problem. This has been mentioned previously. Many is the time that I, as Secretary of the Trades and Labour Council have been telephoned by a union official who has said: 'I am out on the job. There is this problem of safety. What is going to be done about it?' The immediate reaction is to say: 'If the job is unsafe, you walk off. Your life is more important than your wage packet'. In some cases the Commission has even awarded payments in respect of lost time where it has been clearly shown that at all relevant times the employer was at fault. But this provision precludes even the certification of an agreement between the employer and the union. The employer might say: 'On the face of it we were up the creek with that set of circumstances. There was an unsafe practice. It was all our fault. Right, we will see to it and we will pay you for the time lost'. This provision denies the Commission even the right to certify such an agreement. 
What is meant by the words 'industrial action'? These days the words 'industrial action' have a very broad definition in the Act. Section 4 of the Act broadly defines 'industrial action' to include bans, go-slows, work-to-rule campaigns and so on, as well as strikes. What does the provision mean? Let us say that a ban was placed on certain work which may be unsafe work and which takes up about 5 per cent of the time of the workers in a particular industry. That comes within the scope of the catch-all phrase 'industrial action'. Is it competent for the Commission to make an award which would ensure that those persons are able to be paid if there is some dispute about it? That is another question which the Government should consider and which no doubt will be raised again at the Committee stage. 
I come then to the question of the power in proposed new section 34a- clause 8 of the Billconcerning the reference of disputes to the Parliament. This again has an industrial objection, and the same objection applies here as applies to the first suggestion, that of consultation. But it applies even more so in this instance. Furthermore, that proposed new section will place an impossible work load on the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I appeal to the Government to recognise that only one person will have rights and responsibilities imposed upon him by that proposed new section-  Sir John  Moore. He has given dedicated service in the field of his appointment and I believe it is totally unfair of the Government to suggest that the type of work load that is envisaged by clause 8 of the Bill be imposed upon  Sir John  in addition to his already difficult task. 
The other matter that I want to deal with is the deregistration of unions, but before I do that I want to raise a matter which has not been referred to previously either here or outside the Parliament. Every practitioner in the industrial jurisdiction knows about it and has known about it over a long period. The Government believes that for ideological reasons some appointees to the Australian Industrial Court, which is now the Federal Court of Australia, and to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, are not suited to those positions. The Government feels that those appointees take an ideological position which is contemptuous of the reformist approach to industrial disputes which the Australian arbitration system embodies. The Government has seen some of the results of those appointments and is aware of the reality, witness the fact that it has already amended the Conciliation and Arbitration Act to mitigate or limit the harm that a Marxist ideologue can do when clothed with the authority of a judge of the Australian Industrial Court or of a vice-presidential member of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The honourable senator will not say 'hear, hear' to what I am about to say. However, the Government has never had the moral courage to tell the truth to the Australian people. It has had to resort to rumour, innuendo and leaked documents to convey what it lacks the courage to say itself. The consequence has been that legislation such as this has been introduced without a frank statement being made as to the reasons why it has been thought necessary. In such circumstances the Government has only itself to blame if the reasons for the legislation become matters of suspicion and speculation in the minds of members of the public. 
Additionally, the Bill is objectionable in itself. I have gone through its main points and outlined the industrial objections to them. I have even outlined the uselessness of the first consultative provision. But the principal objection to the Bill, one that has not emerged in the debate so far, is to the section which confers upon the Executive government the power to deregister organisations. This is given barely one year after this same Government introduced legislation in 1978 conferring that power, not on a single judge as had been the case previously, but on a full bench of three judges. I shall quote the remarks of  Mr Street,  the Minister for Industrial Relations, to the House of Representatives on 4 May 1978 in support of the proposal which the Government considered necessary to confer this power, not a single judge but three judges. Mr Street said: 
A further matter which is to be reserved to a full court is proceedings under section 143 of the Act for the cancellation of the registration of an organisation under the Act. Cancellation of registration- 
These are  Mr Street's  words- is the ultimate and most serious penalty that can be imposed upon an organisation. For this reason, and because of the implications of cancellation for the effective operation of the conciliation and arbitration system, the Government considers it appropriate that jurisdiction in this matter should be reserved to a full court. 
That was said barely one year ago, yet we have before us today a proposal which suggests that that was a lot of hogwash then and that now a political decision can be made. I remind the Government that the sanction of deregistration already exists and, indeed, has been exercised, for example, in the Australian Builders Labourers' Federation case. It is available in any proper case for proceedings to be instituted by any 'person interested', who could include a Minister of the Crown. Proceedings can be instituted in a proper case by a Minister of the Crown or by a statutory corporation. In either event, the exercise of the power to deregister need involve no more than simple and expeditious proceedings under the Act in the Federal Court of Australia before a full bench of three judges. Their decisions would be seen as having the authority of law, but a deregistration by the Executive would not command the authority of law, it would set the scene for confrontation between the trade union movement on the one hand and the state on the other. 
I do not know. In the other place the honourable member for Hindmarsh,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, has stated that the state would win. I do not know who would be the ultimate winner but certainly, by design, the Communist Party has been working since 1969 to create such a situation. Ineptitude on the part of the Government in this vital matter may indeed facilitate that situation in 1979-80. 
True, the state might have a victory, but it would be a pyrrhic victory at terrible cost to the Australian people, one for which the authors of the Bill would bear ultimate responsibility. I urge the Government to consider carefully what I have just said. I believe that I am the only federal official of a union with more than 100,000 members who is a member of the Parliament. I speak regularly with officers of major unions which are registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Not one of those has been consulted about these provisions. It has been said that the Australian Council of Trade Unions has not been consulted, the peak councils have not been consulted. That is true. That is shameful. Not even one of the major industrial organisations registered under the Act which are going to be affected directly by these proposals has been consulted in any way. I believe that the Government should take heed and chew over what has been said in the hope that it will further delay the passage of this Bill so as to have those consultations. 
I wish to remind the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  of the points that I made during my speech at the second reading stage, none of which he even adverted to. Perhaps I could direct his attention back to some practical questions in relation to clause 3, which he suggests is designed to provide greater co-ordination and consistency of decision-making within the Commission. In practical terms, how is that to take place? I have been associated for a great many years with the notification of disputes. Such a notification may take place under section 25 of the Act, for instance. If that has occurred, what purpose will this provision serve? Already, under section 25, the Commissioner must have notified the Presidential Member. Obviously, that reason for introducing the clause falls to the ground. Therefore, if the presidential member wants to tell the commissioner of the collective viewpoint of the Commission he has the opportunity of doing that there and then. What is the purpose of this piece of legislation? 
Secondly, it is highly questionable whether the consultation processes envisaged by this particular provision will have the desired effect. The Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has said that if a particular commissioner wants to go his own way, according to the document that has been presented here today he can do so. If this legislation goes through and there is consultation and disagreement between the commissioner and the presidential member heading the panel, I would like to know whether this disagreement is to be recorded. I would like the details of what occurs in that circumstance. If it is not to be recorded, what is the purpose of the consultation? I am trying to be as brief as possible because a number of honourable senators on this side of the House want to ask questions. 
Thirdly, during the second reading debate I asked whether the Government could conceive of the likelihood that this proposition would diminish the authority of the individual commissioners in the eyes of those people who have got to come before them. It will be remembered that I said that the first thing that an industrial advocate will say to a commissioner will be: 'I do not want to see the cabin boy. I want to see the captain'. I ask: Is that not so? By all logic this particular proposition really will have the effect of diminishing the dignity and the authority of the individual commissioners in the eyes of the practitioners in the industral relations field. 
Fourthly, I come to this question of work loads. Will the Attorney-General please give honourable senators some idea as to what the Minister for Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  meant when he said- in agreeing with  Sir John  Moore's contention- that this will put an extra work load on an already overloaded Commission. What about the delays that will occur such as those which have been mentioned by  Sir John  Moore? Let me give an example to the chamber. Suppose there is a dispute on the west coast of Tasmania. The Commission is duly notified under section 25 and a commissioner goes to Tasmania to hear the dispute. The dispute concerns a wet weather site allowance. What is going to happen if there is insufficient ambit in the original log of claims for that matter to be determined by the commissioner? What is going to happen? The men are out on strike. They are to go back to work pending the decision of the commissioner. There are no telephones in the area. The commissioner is out there and wants to make a decision to conclude the matter and get the fellows back on the job working properly. That commissioner cannot make a decision there and then. After having examined all of the matters, and all of the circumstances, he cannot make his decision. He has got to run away to Burnie and telephone the presidental member. That is a ludicrous situation and certainly is not in accordance with the objects of the Act. 
The next question is the question of  Sir Richard  Kirby 's attitude to this particular matter. On a number of occasions I have disagreed with  Sir Richard  Kirby but I have agreed with him on most. Surely in this particular instance he knows what he is talking about, because he was part of the case in which this particular matter was discussed; that is the Boilermakers case. The Attorney-General presumably knows all about the Boilermakers case. I know he does because we discussed it in the Senate on another occasion. The seventh point I raised related to the matter of natural justice. I mentioned this matter in the second reading debate. The Attorney-General did not advert to that pellicular matter at all in his response. In normal circumstances natural justice requires that he who decides the matter must hear it. In this circumstance this particular proposition is against natural justice. Might I point out to the Attorney-General that this proposal is the reverse of what is contained in section 30 of the Act which maintains the principle of natural justice insofar as he who decides must also hear. That section goes to the extent of precluding a presidential member from even hearing about matters that have been the subject of negotiations before a commissioner. 
Under section 30, if agreement cannot be reached in relation to a matter which is being dealt with by a commissioner then those matters cannot even be discussed with the presidential member, if that presidential member is put in the position of having finally to determine the matter. That is a fundamental principle of natural justice. No wonder the employers are against this particular proposition. As  Senator Tate  reminded the Senate, the employers are against the amendment the Government is putting forward because it virtually closes off the whole question of appeal if it works as the Government wishes it to work. A I said before, it takes three to do the tango in the industrial relations field. The Government is the only one doing the tango and it is doing it at this time of night in a most abnormal manner. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs or to  Senator Chaney,  who on 1 9 September undertook to convey to the Minister for Foreign Affairs the contents of speeches made during the adjournment debate concerning Czechoslovakian political prisoners and to seek a response to them. Now that the show trials of the six signatories to the Charter 77 human rights manifesto have proceeded, what has been the Government's response to the speeches made in the Senate on 1 9 September on that subject, and has the Government made any public statement whatsoever or does it intend to join with the protests that have come already from many Western European countries and from the head of the European Parliament? 
I am just trying to be helpful to the Government and attempting to clarify the thinking on some of the suggestions that have been made. I do not like this clause one bit. I make a suggestion to the Government in relation to proposed new section 107 (4) (b) (ii), which reads: 
If the Director-General is satisfied that the person's unemployment - 
It goes on further to state: 
. or of which any one or more of the persons was or were a member or members, during that period. 
To try to isolate the problem that the Government has I suggest the addition of these words: and that the governing body of the union has approved of the industrial action'. That would at least do something to alleviate the situation. 
My question is directed to the  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Senate. He may recall that we in the Senate were sitting till about quarter past three on Friday morning considering the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill, which the Government regarded as an urgent Bill. We were sitting at that time, presumably- as  Mr Street  told  Sir John  Moore- in our normal fashion. Does the Minister consider that there is any significance in the fact that that Bill has not yet received the royal assent although the Bill was forwarded to the Governor-General for royal assent? Does the Minister not see any significance in the fact that there has been a considerable time lapse and that the GovernorGeneral has not made the declaration in accordance with section 58 of the Constitution? 
I intend to vote with the Government on this particular proposition, but I do so against my own desire. I do not want the Government or  Senator Peter  Baume to thank me for it because, as I see it, we have a great big double-barrelled shotgun pointed at our heads in that we are being told authoritatively by the Government that unless certain measures are passed today the beneficiaries will miss out some weeks of payment to which they are entitled under the provisions of those measures. I do not want my brains splattered all over the electorate for having voted in any way other than that which I have just indicated. While we are on the subject of brains I must say that my own, at all events, becomes a trifle addled at a quarter past three in the morning. 
I take this opportunity to apologise for the heat of one of the comments that I made at about that time last Friday morning. I hope that we can dispose of this matter fairly quickly so that due time will be permitted for debate at the second reading stage and in Committee. That is another reason why I will support the Government 's proposal. 
-If I heard the interjection properly, I thought it was said that this part of the legislation will make the trade unions answerable to the public. I believe that it will do quite the opposite. This proposal indicates that the drafters of this part of the legislation- I am not accusing the whole of the Government because I know that a number of Government senators do not agree with it- have no conception whatsoever of the day to day functioning of a union registered under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It is a purely simplistic approach which does not have regard to the fact that each union or registered industrial organisation has a complicated set of rules which must conform to the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and which are designed to achieve orderly industrial progress. I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will be able to leave this clause aside so that it can be tidied up. 
With the best will in the world, I give to the Senate an example of what could happen in the case of a section of the Federated Clerks Union of Australia imposing industrial action in the shape of a ban on spare parts coming across the wharf. This would involve the shipping section of that union, a distinct part of the general membership. As I understand it, the union has various sections which cater for the particular interests of its members. There are shipping, transport, airline, commercial, and mining sections, and so on. Each of those sections elects members and representatives to the State Council. The membership as a whole elects State officers and State executives who are ultimately responsible to the membership for the day to day running of the union. 
Let us suppose that some members of the shipping section got a bee in their bonnet and said that they were going to place a ban on a particular ship in Sydney. The dispute might not be associated with what was in the ship but how the ship was being handled. Perhaps there were spare parts in that ship for the motor vehicle industry. That would have an effect on the motor vehicle industry in every State. Under those circumstances the members of that particular section of the union in the various States may be stood down. Of course, in this case proof would have to be provided to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in respect of a stand-down application. The commissioner would have regard to whether those members of that union had any control or say over the dispute which was affecting them. Immediately those persons are affected by the decisions of others over which, in the span of time available, they have no control, under this provision the Government will add insult to injury. 
No. Under the Government's legislation it has nothing to do with the commissioner, irrespective of whether they have control over the situation. 
That is right. So the commissioner makes the decision that the employer has no say in the matter, that it is not the employer's fault, and they are stood down. 
Let us come to that in a moment. I am giving a practical example, which occurred in 1969, 1 think, when there was a major dispute on the wharves. In this circumstance the Government gives the members no opportunity whatsoever; it prejudges the situation and it penalises people. It adds insult to injury. Members of the union are already losing their pay and the Government will not allow them to get unemployment benefit, as I said, in the time span. Let us go one step further. The executive of the union has a meeting and, on behalf of all of the members who elected it, instructs those members on the wharf to lift the ban. The members of that particular section take the view that they will not abide with the decision of the federal executive of the union. 
According to  Senator Walter's  previous interjection, they will not. It is not done that way. I will come later to how the honourable senator is misunderstanding the day-to-day running of a union. The federal executive of the union instructs its members to lift the ban. It does so on behalf of all those members who are stood down and whom the Government is depriving of unemployment benefit. The members say: 'We will not have a bar of that. We have our industrial might and our industrial action to take'. What does the federal executive do? It starts to take disciplinary action under its rules against the members of that section, but before it does that, I imagine, it would say to all the members: 'Let us have mass meetings throughout the Commonwealth of all members of our union to make recommendations in respect of this industrial dispute '. To ensure that all the members can attend it proceeds to have stop work meetings. In a shift industry such as the shipping industry, that is the only way to make sure that all members will attend. 
The union calls a compulsory meeting of all members of its shipping section throughout Australia, including those members who put on the ban. Those members say: 'No. We have only a ban. We are not going to stop work for four or six hours over this matter. We are not going to lose pay by having a meeting over this matter. That is against the Federal Government's 1977 amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act'. This is how stupid the situation is. Those people on the wharf who are causing all the trouble could point to this Government's legislation passed in 1977 which enables an individual member of a union to opt out of industrial action- the very industrial action which a stop work meeting has been called to try to solve. I have been at such meetings and I know that they can go on for four to eight hours. This Government's legislation would give those people the opportunity to turn around to the union and say: You are a wipe-off. The Federal Government knows what is is talking about. We have our rights under the provisions of the 1977 amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act'. The union could force the employers to stand those blokes down for the duration of the stop work meeting and the union would be liable for action under this Government's own legislation. That is how ridiculous it is. That is where this Government is meeting itself coming backwards because it does not know about the day-to-day operations of individual unions and how they work. 
Time does not permit, but there are a large number of matters such as that which immediately occur to one. Let us take the definition of industrial action'. In these proposed amendments to the Social Services Act the definition of industrial action' is the same as its definition in the 1977 amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act- with a very interesting omission. I refer honourable senators to the proposed definition of 'industrial action' in the Social Services Amendment Bill before us. It states: 
In this section- 
Industrial action' means - 
limitation or restriction on the performance of work or on acceptance of, or offering for, work; 
The definition in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act states:  ban, limitation or restriction on the performance of work, or on acceptance or offering for work, - 
Listen to this:  in accordance with the terms and conditions prescribed by an award of the Commission, an award, determination or order made by another tribunal in pursuance of a law of the Commonwealth or by or under a law of the Commonwealth; 
They are very significant deletions. Through the social services legislation this Government is attempting to involve itself, by political interference, in the industrial arena. This means that an employer can impose on a worker or on a group of workers an order which is not in accordance with the provisions of the award. The workers can go out on strike because of that. If their colleagues in the same union are put out of work because of their going on strike as a result of an order which is contrary to or not in accordance with the provisions of an award or a determination, they can be penalised. 
Not according to my experience in my association with the Industrial Relations Bureau. Its predecessor, the Arbitration Inspectorate, had too few arbitration inspectors to cover all the awards they had to cover. It is just ridiculous to think that those people - 
With due respect to the honourable senator, I have had 26 years as a unionist and 2 1 years as a union official. I hope that the Government will take on board what I have said in this debate. 
-The only reason for my rising is that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has not answered the question I raised. The point was very practical. It is a point upon which this legislation will either fall or stand. The Minister must admit that the legislation will either fall or stand. If it is practical and capable of implementation, if it is fair and just and is seen to be fair and just it will stand. I thought I pointed out by practical example, because of my knowledge of the day to day running of unions, that it is not just and it will not seem to be just.  Senator Elstob,  with his practical knowledge of the matters, told the Minister that this Bill will exacerbate strikes and industrial action. That is very clear. 
If a section of a union is on strike one has to try to isolate it to try to fix up the dispute. Under this legislation one will have to bring in all other members of the union who are affected. Any responsible union official will have to bring all other members into mass stop work meetings. As  Senator Elstob  said, it is easy to get them out on strike, particularly by the bods who are already out, but it will be very hard to get them back to work again.  Senator Watson  who has vast experience in managerial positions and direct positions within industry understands the very real problem that this legislation will present to people and the injustice that will be suffered by quite a large number of people. I ask the Minister to say why the Government would impose such a penalty on innocent persons: As I mentioned to her in the example I gave, the federal executive of a union, acting on behalf of the people whom the Government would penalise, could make a decision opposing the industrial action which put other people out of work to whom the Government will not pay the benefits. Therefore, those people, through their elected officials, have done the right thing. Yet the Government will still penalise them. The legislation does not even say words to the effect that the restriction of benefit will not apply if the governing body of the union has not approved of the industrial action. 
That is right.  Senator Watson  mentioned that the Government has thrown this restriction on to the table of the Senate. Surely, if the Government were serious about solving industrial problems it would have such a proposition. This restriction would not apply if the governing body of the union had not approved of the industrial action. As I mentioned in my earlier contribution, even the Government's industrial legislation will mitigate against a responsible union attempting to do the right thing by the Government in accordance with the Government's wishes as we have before us in the Social Services Amendment Bill. As I mentioned, if for example that small section of a union persists with industrial action, what does the responsible union official do? He would go to those members who have got the ban on and say to them: 'You are required to come to a stop-work meeting of 8 hours' duration in order that this may be thrashed out. We will get to that mass meeting all of those other people who are affected'. The Government's industrial legislation, the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, in section 188 ( 1 ) (d) states: 
An organisation . . . shall not impose, or threaten to impose, a penalty, forteiture or disability of any kind upon a member of the organization with the intent to coerce the member to join in industrial action; 
In order to overcome a union's problem as presented to it by the Social Services Amendment Bill, a union official would go to the offending section of the union which has a black ban on certain goods which are required for a particular factory where the members of that same union have been laid off or stood down as a result of the black ban. That officer would be doing the right thing. He would be acting in contravention of the Government's industrial legislation by calling out those people to a stopwork meeting. Those offending members can say: 'You, Harradine, the official of this union, have no right to call us out on a stop work'. For calling them out there is a penalty of $400 a day. 
This is an example of what I have said about the Government's not understanding the way that a union works and not understanding the need to have genuine and responsible participation in the decisions of the union, with the union having the ability to impose discipline through its rules. I warned the Government, when that piece of legislation was put up in 1 977, that it would not be a deterrent to unions imposing discipline in order to achieve orderly industrial progress. My words unfortunately have been found to be true by reason of what the Government is trying to do with this Bill. Furthermore, the Government has gone one step further and said to those people who do not want to be in the union nor take part in proper consultation and meetings in order to achieve orderly industrial progress: 'No, you can opt out of the whole thing and you will be paid. You will be paid. You do not have to go to the meetings. Just resign from the union and you will get your unemployment benefit. Don't go to the meetings and try to fix it up '. This irks me. 
I can see and recognise problems such as those mentioned by  Senator Baume  in relation to the Telecom strike. In that instance decisions were taken by the governing body of the organisation elected by union members. The governing body has the responsibility to reflect the point of view of the union members, and if its decision is wrong and it affects the ordinary union member, the union member knows what to do about it next time they elect officials. But as in the case I first instanced- it has happened before- if the union federal executive or responsible body decides not to approve a strike, those members who have put officials into their positions will be penalised. I do not think that is just; I do not think it is reasonable; I do not think it has an ounce of commonsense about it; and I do not think it will overcome the problems that the Government is trying to overcome- that is, to try to engender a sense of responsibility among the members of the union concerned. That is done by creating an atmosphere in which unions will be encouraged to exhibit responsibility. It is not done through this sort of legislation. An atmosphere conducive to responsible decisions should be created, but this legislation will penalise the very people who may have taken responsible decisions and to whom no fault can be attributed for an industrial dispute. Why should the Government penalise them and their families when they are already well and truly penalised by having been stood down? 
This will be my last word. I am sorry that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has not taken up the helpful suggestion to the Government, because the decision not to take it up has removed any cloak of respectability that the proposition may or may not have. I pose just another difficulty. How is the Director-General to satisfy himself that a person is or is not a unionist? I will give a guarantee right here and now that as an elected official of a union I will not provide lists of the names of my union members to the Director-General unless I am directed to do so by the members of the union. I say this very seriously: Given the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the amendments thereto and the tested rules of registered industrial organisations, how is the DirectorGeneral to ascertain whether a person is or is not a member of that registered organisation? 
I will speak only briefly. We are dealing with the Social Services Amendment Bill to which the Opposition has moved to add at the end of the motion that the Bill be read a second time the following amendment: 
But the Senate is of the opinion that it should provide for- 
twice yearly indexation of benefits for the unemployed without dependants; 
an increase in unemployment benefits for those under 1 8 years; 
removal of the provisions relating to the mandatory postponement period for the 'voluntary' unemployed and those who fail the work test; 
removal of the provision of refusing unemployment and special benefit to those unemployed through the industrial action of others; 
the updating of supplementary allowances and allowances for pensioners' children to compensate for inflation; and 
an increase in family allowances to compensate for their erosion by inflation. 
I intend to support that amendment. I remind the Senate that one of the General Business motions which stands in my name that was to be debated tonight deals with at least two of the particular points in the Opposition's amendment. I draw the attention of the Senate to that General Business motion which, because of our vote in the Senate today, will not be dealt with. It reads: 
That the Senate calls on the Government to introduce sixmonthly indexation of repatriation and social security benefits, in particular, pensions and family allowances. 
In that respect the Opposition's amendment does not go far enough. I believe that in addition to compensating families for the erosion of family allowances that has taken place the allowances should be taken out of politics and indexed every six months to avoid the difficulties that are being experienced. I repeat that the Government is going to be in trouble if it does not do anything about the economic difficulties and pressures on families in this day and age. Worse still, this nation is going to be in trouble if nothing is done, and that concerns me. If the Government does not do anything by the next election, every mother of five children will be told by me and others that the Government has taken away $500 a year from her because it has failed to index family allowances. A mother of four children will have lost approximately $400 a year; a mother of three children approximately $270 a year; a mother of two children approximately $160 a year and a mother of one child approximately $70 a year. That is a fact of life. Family allowances have not been indexed. The introduction of the family allowance scheme, as has been said in this chamber and elsewhere, was just a book entry scheme. The old child endowment scheme and the tax rebate system were abolished and replaced with the family allowance scheme. If there had been indexation of the previous scheme there would have been a substantial improvement in the financial lot of families. 
Many of the problems in the areas of social welfare and health stem from the fact that families are under economic pressure. I know that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  understands this and I know her feeling in this regard. However, I hope that she is able to convince her colleagues in the Cabinet that this is a matter of vital interest. It is being talked about more and more frequently amongst ordinary people, the ordinary battlers. It is becoming a real issue in the community. I hope that the Government understands the facts of political life and that in the interests of the nation something positive will be done in this regard in the very near future. 
I wish to deal with the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979, which seeks to amend section 3 of the Health Insurance Act. I take the opportunity to remind the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  of what she said on page 1632 of the Senate  Hansard on  25 October 1978 in response to my questions at the Committee stage of the health insurance legislation being considered at that time. This matter deals with the right given to the medical profession to identify disadvantaged persons. 1 know that the Government has determined certain of these categories but I wish to deal with the situation of unemployed persons. 1 have an instance in my mind which was raised with me again only two weeks ago by the mother of an unemployed girl in a country town. There is only one doctor in that town and he will not identify this unemployed girl as a disadvantaged person. On 25 October 1978 the Minister graciously said that that particular practice accorded with what the medical profession desired. Quite forthnightly, she also said: 
We would expect to have co-operation from the Association. 
That is, the Australian Medical Association. She continued: 
We would also expect that it would work to alleviate the normal fee structure for those people who are disadvantaged. 
She also mentioned that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and his Department would want to hear about the type of case I have mentioned because the Government intends to take whatever action is necessary to overcome any difficulties that may result from the Government's proposals for disadvantaged persons'. 
This particular case has been referred to the Australian Medical Association, which has said that it cannot do anything about it. I wonder whether the Minister, in her reply to the second reading debate, will advise the Senate what advice has been given to the Australian Medical Association about these particular circumstances and what instructions have been given to the State officers of the Department of Health for dealing with such complaints from individual patients. The person whom I have in mind has also told me that there are a number of others who do not want to have their names involved in any complaint because there is only one doctor and it is obviously a delicate type of situation. I am sorry to take up the time of the Senate on this matter, but it seems important. 
I will not go over the matters dealt with by  Senator 
Grimes, except to say that I also intend to support the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979. I note in particular that in this legislation the Government is implementing, as it sees fit, its election undertaking in relation to allied ex-servicemen. I am disappointed that the decision of the Government does not extend to providing benefits such as repatriation medical treatment benefits. I hope that the Government will reconsider its decision and keep that matter under active review. What the Government has done so far has been appreciated by the groups of people involved. A great deal of work has been done by a number of those groups, not the least of which is the group of Polish servicemen's associations. 
I know that  Senator Grimes  will not mind my mentioning another person who was very intimately involved in this matter during the days of the Whitlam Government; I refer to the former Minister for Repatriation,  Senator Wheeldon.  I have had discussions with him on this matter. I was not a member of parliament at the time he was Minister for Repatriation, but I know that people who were members of Parliament at that time and groups of people had discussions about the matter with him then. He indicated his intention to recommend that service pensions should be extended to allied ex-servicemen. I am sure that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  will not mind my mentioning him. I simply state again that I support the legislation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 September 1 979: 
1 ) Have drug control authorities in a number of countries, including Australia, refused to grant approval to the drug Depo-Provera (depo-medroxy progesterone acetate) for contraceptive purposes and, in particular, has the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) so refused on the grounds of dangerous side-effects; if so, what side-effects. 
Has the Department of Health sent a letter to family planning clinics stating that they may use the drug as a contraceptive after obtaining the informed consent of the client; if so, how can the letter be reconciled with any refusal by drug control authorities, in particular the USFDA, to grant approval for the use of Depo-Provera for contraceptive purposes. 
I must rise to my feet because of what has just been said by  Senator Cavanagh.  He said that there has been a long running sore about something crooked in regard to trade union training in Tasmania. As I understand it,  Senator O'Byrne  is not now saying that. 
I thank the honourable senator. At last we are at one on that particular matter. There is nothing crooked about trade union training in Tasmania, and there never has been. I would be happy to see the Minister look at the expenditure which was certified by the Auditor-General in Tasmania as being expended for the purposes of the grant. I say this very deliberately; I believe that the Minister ought also to ask his Department whether the amount of $33,000- which was reimbursed by the Commonwealth, for trade union training in Tasmania, and which is part of the $43,000 that the State Government had asked back- is in fact State Government money or whether it belongs to the Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council? 
I wish to refer to division 378 of the appropriation of the Department of Industrial Relations and to the item which relates to the Industrial Relations Bureau. I am a little out of breath because when  Senator O'Byrne  spoke I went up to my office to see whether I had the material that was presented to the Tasmanian Parliament by the Auditor-General. I do not have it, but I know that  Senator O'Byrne  has displayed tonight in the Senate his usual disregard for the truth. 
In fact, what he asked - 
-I also wish to raise a question about the appropriations relating to widows pensions, referred to at page 91 - 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence aware that the HMAS  Melbourne  is crawling with cockroaches from stem to stern- indeed, from port to starboard? Because the aged HMAS  Melbourne  already spends long periods out of service which will increase as time goes on, is it a fact that the Department of Defence is unwilling to see her tied up alongside to be fumigated against these pests? As the Minister would have the health and comfort of the men of the  Melbourne  at heart, will he or perhaps the Minister for Science and the Environment be able to give advice as to how the vessel could be fumigated or how the cockroaches could possibly be eradicated without the vessel coming temporarily out of service? I should mention to the Minister that the cockroach infestation occurred well before the  Melbourne  came to the port of Hobart a fortnight ago. 
I refer to division 173, subdivision 3, item 04, relating to grants to organisations for pre-marital education. I note that the estimated expenditure for this year is $50,000. According to the explanatory notes, the purpose of that item of expenditure is: 
The Marriage Act empowers the Attorney-General to make grants to approved organizations to subsidise programmes of pre-marital education. 
I note that last year also the appropriation was $50,000. So there has been no increase at all in the appropriation for this year- not even an increase to reflect increases in prices and costs of services. I draw the attention of the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  to the fact, that according to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, teenage divorces are becoming a common social phenomenon, with one in 10 youthful marriages failing. That would seem to be a factor which ought to have influenced the Government at least to increase the provision for pre-marital education services. 
I know of a number of people who are quite dedicated to working in that area. I believe that they should receive support. They are receiving support from various church and community groups, but I believe that their work would more readily be known and their services would be more readily availed of if more money were made available to them from the Government. I appreciate also that that sort of service ought to be able to attract voluntary donations from adherents to the community groups I have mentioned. Can the Minister advise us why the appropriation is the same this year when statistics would suggest that the amount should be increased? 
Pursuant to Standing Orders I ask that  Senator O'Byrne  table the Auditor-General's statement from which he read. 
I wonder whether I could have a look at it. It will be seen, if it is a complete document - 
Am I to understand that it is not a complete document? 
I move: 
That the document be tabled. 
We will see whether the document is complete. I suspect that it is not complete. 
Oh, the honourable senator has admitted that it is not complete. 
That is the whole point at issue. The document is not complete. I will provide the complete document to honourable senators. From it they will see that the Auditor-General in Tasmania states quite categorically that all the expenditure from the fund was for the purpose for which the grants were made and at no stage did he say that the amount of $7,000 was paid by the Trade Union Training Authority to the Tasmanian Trade Union Training account, unvouched for. What he did say was that inadequate documentation was received in regard to $7,000-odd of the money paid over by the State Government. If that document is complete it will show that; if it is not it will not show that. I will provide the complete document to honourable senators. It will show that the 
Auditor-General stated in respect of these amounts that the documentation was unable to be obtained but that the pattern of expenditure showed that it was in accordance with the guidelines set down and in accordance with the objects of the grant. 
Here we have an extraordinary situation. We have a member of the Australian Labor 
Party in  Senator O'Byrne  attacking the trade union movement and we have his fellow member of the Australian Labor Party,  Senator Cavanagh,  asking the Industrial Relations Bureau, which is anathema to the trade union movement, to investigate the trade union movement. 
Oh, come on. 
The honourable senator has done it all the time. 

 - Mr Chairman.that was not a point of order at all. 
I will not withdraw it because that is what  Senator O'Byrne  has been doing all the time. 
I do not intend to withdraw it, because that is what the honourable senator has done all the time, and here we have a situation where he is trying to get the Industrial Relations Bureau - 
He accused me of knocking off money. 
I rise to a point of order. Where in the Standing Orders is it indicated that a senator is required to withdraw anything that he says on the objection of another senator? That is what I am being asked to do tonight. As I see it, there is no such provision in the Standing Orders. If there is, then in deference to you,  Mr Chairman,  of course there is only one option for me to take. But I certainly cannot see in the Standing Orders where this is required of any senator. If this is to be the case, debate in this chamber will be severely restricted. At no stage did I suggest that an investigation should not take place. 
In respect to you I do so.  Senator O'Byrne  has continued to make statements which reflect seriously on the integrity of officers of the trade union movement in my State. 
On a point of order,  Senator Cavanagh  did say in his speech that arising from the statements made by  Senator O'Byrne,  one thing at least was very clear.  (Quorum formed).  Mr Chairman,  the position has been reached that  Senator O'Byrne  has requested me to withdraw the statement that I made that he is reflecting on the integrity of officials of the trade union movement in my State. I do not intend to withdraw that because there is no Standing Order which requires me to do so. I was speaking to a point of order proving that even - 
On a point of order,  Mr Chairman,  I make it very clear to you that I certainly did not start this in this chamber either now nor at any other time. I make that perfectly clear, and I think it is quite unfair to suggest that a senator cannot defend the people and his constituents in his own State who are under attack.  Senator Cavanagh  at least understood that there was a reflection and that there was something suspicious. 
If  Senator O'Byrne  said that he is not reflecting upon members of the trade union movement in my State and you are asking me to affirm that that is not the case, then certainly I will withdraw. I am glad to see that at last  Senator O'Byrne  is taking a position where he does not intend to do this in the future. But- 1 take the point that at the present moment what we have is a request by the Labor Party for the Industrial Relations Bureau to investigate moneys which were forwarded not by the IRB but by the Department of Industrial Relations in respect of trade union training. I certainly object to the IRB undertaking that investigation, because the IRB is not competent to undertake that investigation on two counts. Firstly, there is no provision within the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which clothes the IRB with such a power; and secondly, the IRB is not the appropriate body to make such an investigation. If a body is to make such an investigation, that body ought to be the Department of Industrial Relations, which is the successor to the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations which was the original department which provided the reimbursements for trade union training in my State. Neither I nor any of the people who were associated with trade union training in that State would object to that taking place; that is, the Department undertaking this particular act. In fact we would welcome it. Whilst the Department is doing that I ask the Minister through you,  Mr Chairman,  whether he would provide information as to whether the amount of money reimbursed to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council from the department is in fact money which ought rightly to belong to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council or is it money which the State Government now seeks to have returned to it? That is a question which I think is a most important question for that department to apply its mind to. Finally, I make the point, as I did before, that so far as the Industrial Relations Bureau is concerned, I believe that the Bureau ought to be very well advised before it takes cases, as it did in the Keogh case. I remind the Senate that it was this very man Keogh about whom  Senator O'Byrne  said something in the 
Senate previously and upon whose evidence the  president  and secretary of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council were expelled from the Australian Labor Party. Despite the case being taken up on his behalf by the Industrial Relations Bureau, he was found by the Federal Court to be a person of general bad character at all relevant times. 
I have looked through the estimates of expenditure for the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs and I cannot see precisely where the Department is provided with sufficient money to carry out a very important task which I believe it ought to have; that is, to review and to analyse the labour market to see who in the labour market have better reasons to be out of it. Division 288.2.10 refers to occupational information, but I assume that the amount provided there is not applicable to the type of survey that would be required for that sort of operation. We are dealing with the estimates for the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs one day after the publication of the Commonwealth Employment Service unemployment figures for the month of October 1979. Many people, if they have not already switched off their radios, will probably do so at the further mention of unemployment, because many people have jobs. But there are others who are unemployed, who are parents of unemployed or who are parents of a child who is about to leave school with the prospect of unemployment. As well there are many others in the community who have a growing awareness that the danger lights are flashing. 
At the end of October 1979, according to the CES figures, there were 383,878 people seeking full time work. My State of Tasmania has 7 per cent unemployment, the highest figure of any State. Today there has been the usual spate of statements that full employment will return when the economy comes good again. Depending on who made the statement, it is all the fault of the Government or it is all the fault of the unions. That may be partly true, but the whole truth is not being stated. Simply stated, the problem is that there are more people in or seeking paid employment than there are jobs. At the same time new job creation continues to be slashed by technological change. Unless we realise that the problem has social as well as economic aspects, Australia will have over one million unemployed seeking full time employment by the mid- 1 980s. Some people refer to the unemployed as dole bludgers. This is an unfair statement. Certainly some people would not work in an iron lung, but honourable senators should talk to any parent with a school leaver daughter who is looking for a job. With the labour market oversupplied and new jobs being taken by automation, teenage girls will be the hardest to place in jobs. 
Of all the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries, Australia, next to Italy, has the highest unemployment rate amongst people under 24 years of age. George Polites, Director of the National Employers Consultative Committee and Joint Director of the Confederation of Australian Industry said last year that if this situation is allowed to continue for any extended .period the economic cost will pale into insignificance compared with the price we will eventually pay in terms of social, economic and political disruption and dislocation. Faced with this gloomy outlook, should we allow jobs to be destroyed by the wholesale application of automation and technological change? In respect of the particular item of expenditure with which we are dealing tonight, should we force to stay in the paid work force those people who have better reasons to be out of the very jobs which could be taken by the unemployed? That is precisely what is happening, but because I will not be permitted to deal with the automation question under this head. I will not do so. There are many thousands in the paid work force who have better reasons to be out of it and who desire to be out of it. 
When statements are made about the number of unemployed, the Government tends to come back with the seemingly contrary statement that more people than ever are in the paid work force. That confuses a lot of people but, of course, there are two different sets of statistics. The one shows that the other is a problem. While there are more people in or seeking employment than there are jobs, unemployment will remain high. There is a simple and obvious answer. Besides the creation of work, which is the primary and important factor, there is a need to reduce the number of people seeking work. Let me give just two examples. I refer to the category of people reaching retiring age. Has the Department done any surveys to show the number of people between, say, 55 and 65 years of age who desire to retire but who cannot do so because of economic factors? Have any surveys been undertaken by the Department in respect of those people? If not, why not? If it has not done so previously, why is there no estimate of expenditure for such a survey? 
Amongst the many contacts that I have throughout factories, shops and offices in Tasmania there would be thousands of people who would like to be in a situation to phase themselves into retirement and who would appreciate the opportunity of doing so without a dramatic fall in their income. It would seen to me that it is not beyond the ability of the fiscal brains in the Government and particularly in the general community to come up with a scheme by which these people would be allowed voluntarily to phase themselves into retirement rather than, as happens in so many cases, to clock off on their sixtyfifth birthday and fall dead within six to eight months because they are not used to the different life-style that retirement presents. 
There are many other examples. Another example is the married women in the work force. Over 43 per cent of all married women are in the paid work force. Many surveys have shown that most of those women with dependent children have been forced into the work force by economic pressures. Why not give them the option of leaving the paid work force if they wish to do so? No person should be compelled to leave the paid work force, neither should any family be forced by economic or other pressures to have both partners working in the paid work force to the detriment of the family. Again, when we consider the estimates for the Department of Social Security, I will make the point that there is a need to lift the family allowance and even to consider the payment of a home-makers allowance to relieve the economic pressure. But why not in some way such as that give an opportunity to thousands of married women who desire to come out of the paid work force to do so? Of course, theoretically and in most cases practically, their jobs could be taken by the youth who are unemployed. I ask honourable senators to bear in mind that, according to Department of Social Security estimates, expenditure on the unemployment benefit for the forthcoming year will total almost $1 billion. 
I recognise that this is not only a Commonwealth Government problem. I believe that, because in our State there is 7 per cent unemployment, there are problems of initiative on the part of the State Government. There are at least two instances- I am aware of two- of the State Government failing to take the initiative. I could mention those instances now, but because of standing orders I cannot do so. Can the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  advise the Committee where in these estimates money is provided for the type of in-depth survey which would indicate the structure of the work force and provide the opinions of a proper sampling of the work force in the categories I have mentioned, upon which information certain fiscal policies could be based which would overcome a significant part of the present unemployment  problem and which also would provide necessary relief from economic pressures on families in this day and age? 
I wish to deal with the estimated expenditure for widows pensions, referred to on page 9 1 of the explanatory notes of the Department of Social Security. Detailed there is the estimate for widows pensions, $572m. For the first time in history, less than half of that $572m will actually go to women whose husbands have died. As I understand it- perhaps the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  can correct me if I am wrong- most of it will be spent on financial support for deserted wives or divorcees. The number of divorcees in Australia appears to have settled at about 40,000 a year, following a high of 63,000 in 1976 which was the first full year after the 1975 Murphy family law amendments. More than 74,000 children are added to the divorce toll each year. 
In addition, on page 94 of the explanatory notes it is stated that there will be an additional $258m spent this year on sole supporting parents benefits, which is an increase of 1 3.82 per cent on last year. Of the sole supporting parents receiving benefits, 57,067 are women and 1,970 are men. The interesting point about that is that the total number of supporting parents has more than doubled since 1974. Almost half the women are unmarried, and 65 per cent of those women have no other income. 
There are other areas of social security expenditure. The Government will spend a considerable amount of money for the care of aged people and for the care of children whose parents, both parents, are in the paid workforce. The Committee has had before it, in the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department, expenditure for marriage counselling and premarital courses. 
Let me say very clearly that I do not begrudge the payment of any of the benefits mentioned. To receive those benefits people must have satisfied the criteria of eligibility laid down in the Social Services Act. Indeed, many other people and I are extremely happy that unmarried mothers have rejected abortion as a solution to the situation in which they have found themselves. On the other hand, I note with concern the dramatic decrease in the proportion of babies being offered for adoption by unmarried mothers while the list of married couples eagerly waiting to provide a balanced home life grows longer and longer. 
The message more directly conveyed by the figures I have just quoted is that the disintegration of the family unit in Australian society is now making significant inroads into the pattern of Government expenditure. As the family unit comes under increasing economic and social stress, problems previously taken care of within the family are being passed on to governments. The simple, fact, which I believe governments everywhere are failing to recognise, is that some caring functions are achieved more economically within the family unit than outside it. Very often governments could save themselves much expenditure of effort and funds if they adopted a positive approach to protecting the family unit. 
I support what other speakers have said in respect of the Social Security estimates on the question of family allowances. Let me take the example of the emergence of the dual income family as an acceptable or desirable situation. As I see it, there is no stated Government policy, in these documents or elsewhere, which says that that is the aim, but the deliberate pressure, both in the past and at present, on married women to enter the paid work force has helped to promote the trend. I believe that some families, particularly one-income families, are beginning to wake up to the fact that they are receiving very little incentive or encouragement from governments. Those families have noted the disappearance of the maternity allowance, the 35 per cent erosion in the real value of family allowance payments, and the way in which they are regularly catapulted into higher taxation brackets. It is little wonder that last year there were 52,000 fewer live births than in 1971. I hope that the Government will put its money where its Immigration and Ethnic Affairs Minister's mouth is. The tragedy is, and I ask the Minister to comment on this, that if governments only woke up they would realise that a small amount of justice and equity today would remove the necessity in future years for massive expenditures in dealing with the end results of the disintegration of the family unit. 
I have a very brief question in relation to item 07, subdivision 3, division 325 of the estimates for the Department of Health. I have noted the comments that have been made in the Estimates committee. Unfortunately, not being a member of any of the Estimates committees, it is difficult for me to attend them all at the one time. 
I do not have the quality of bilocation and if I were to insist upon becoming a member of any of the committees I am sure that both the Government and the Opposition would object because I would be taking one of the seats of their members on the committee. 
-I see. I refer to grants to family planning programs. I find that the responses from the Department to the questions asked by the  Chairman  of the committee are quite inadequate. I do not propose to canvass the situation tonight. I have a notice of motion on the Notice Paper stating that payment should not be made to those organisations in the family planning area which regard abortion as a legitimate means of fertility control. I say no more, but when that motion comes before the chamber I expect a far more detailed and appropriate view to be expressed by the Department. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $71,91 9,000. 
In the spirit of the subject matter that we are debating, the by-word of defence being awake and ever watchful', I enter this debate very briefly by asking where in the estimates for the Department of Defence is the provision for the payments of the contracts for the three overseas firms which are currently working on designs for a new aircraft carrier. I have not been able to locate specifically provision for that. I wonder whether it is possible for the Minister for Education either now, if he has the information, or at some subsequent time to indicate to the chamber whether any of those designs is specifically for a vertical short take-off and landing aircraft. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has the Minister seen reports that HMAS  Attack  left Melbourne this morning to patrol the 200-mile exclusive economic zone off the coast of Tasmania? Has the Minister noted that an Australian Broadcasting Commission journalist from my State, who is employed on the ABC program  This Day Tonight  and whose professional qualifications are unquestioned, has been refused permission to accompany the vessel? Is the Minister aware that this permission was refused by the Minister for Defence on the sole ground that that journalist was a woman? I presume that the men of HMAS  Attack  had no objection to the journalist concerned, Miss Penny Kerr, being aboard. Does the Minister not agree that the security of Tasmania is of interest to the women as well as to the men of my State? As pan of the work of HMAS  Attack  is to examine unauthorised fishing in the area, would not a woman's angle be of some human interest- something which Australian Broadcasting Commission programs lack at times? 
