I am deeply honoured to be a member of the House of Representatives and to represent the electorate of Balaclava. I will certainly endeavour to serve all constituents to the best of my ability and to make here a contribution to national policy formation. I anticipate that during my political life expectancy in this Parliament, the Parliament's greatest problem may well be to raise its own standing in the eyes of the community and to review its role in the decision making process. It seems to be a fact of life that parliamentarians, the principal lawmakers, are not held in high regard by those whom they serve. Perhaps this will always be the case. As a new member I would certainly not presume now to suggest why this is so or what must be done to improve the situation. But with your leave,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will comment about certain aspects of our decision making process. 
Some responsible commentators have warned the citizens of democratic countries that raging rates of inflation such as we are experiencing now may ultimately threaten our system of parliamentary democracy. Certainly the problems now coming before parliaments, including those stemming from inflation, are of an increasingly complex nature. I believe that it would be useful to examine the roles of the various Public Service and non-Public Service advisers, lobbyists and community action groups and compare them with the real role of Parliament. Such an examination should be a continual one, for our sytern of government is continually evolving. It would also be part of the on-going debate on inflation and the functioning of our mixed economy. As ample criticism has already been made of this Budget, I think it is sufficient for me to say that inflation will continue, unemployment levels will remain, thrift will be penalised, initiative will be discouraged and young marrieds and fixed income earners will find life particularly hard in the immediate future. Inflation will continue making a mockery of the so-called tax concessions, and the capital gains tax amounts to a tax upon inflationary gains. Without an overall adjustment to our current tax structure the Government really increases its revenue each time inflation reaches new dizzy heights. It is true that some of our inflation is imported. It is true also that inflation is now a world wide problem, but that is no justification for maintaining our position as one of the outright leaders in the inflation stakes. It is still the Government 's duty to control the domestically generated element of our inflation and to defer non-essential public spending until this is done. To date the Government has failed to do so. But in a modern democracy the control of inflation is more than merely the duty of the government. The Government must take the lead, and the unions and employers must follow and co-operate to the full. 
In democracies such as ours modern economic and social problems can be solved only by a consensus between 3 entities which are themselves answerable to constituent members. At the apex of these entities are the Federal Government, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the National Employers Policy Committee. I refer to these as entities although they are all federal in character. For it is a fact that we have a federal system. It may not be precisely what we would devise if we were writing the Constitution today, but it will not disappear no matter how hard the current government tries to make it disappear. I am not suggesting that the States have always behaved in an exemplary way throughout the history of our Federation. They have not. Sensible co-operation on the part of all 7 governments is essential for the system to work. It will not work if the domineering policies of the Federal Government make several of the States determined to oppose federal policy at all costs. 
But given the cumbersome appearance of the federal system, it is not surprising that the Federal Government has succumbed to the temptation of trying to centralise power at the expense of the States and existing local government authorities. It is superficially tempting to do this, but in a country of Australia's physical size and growing complexity and diversity the centralisation of power in the hands of one government would be detrimental to our development. This is not to say that all aspects of the Constitution written in the 1890s are to be revered and regarded as immutable in the 1970s, but it is to say that changes must be wrought by consensus. 
Great patience and wisdom are needed if we are to render our democratic processes viable in the years ahead. Much of that wisdom is to be found at the grass roots- at meetings in constituencies of our 3 tiers of government, on the committees of local action groups, at meetings of rank and file unionists and at meetings of employers. 
I believe it is sensible to record now that I am concerned by the obvious intentions of the Government to centralise power in Canberra. At times this would mean centralisation within the Cabinet and on other occasions it would mean centralisation in the hands of an even smaller body such as the Economic Sub-committee of Cabinet. In the case of a very strong Prime Minister, it could mean centralisation in the hands of one person, and where the Cabinet was generally lacklustre it would mean that power could reside in a few non-elected officials. What is most certain is that it would mean the by-passing of Par.liament 
I am not denying that the trend towards centralisation is almost inexorable. The granting of taxation powers and logical liberal High Court interpretation of the Federal Government's powers have assured this. Such centralisation has generally been in accordance with efficient and effective government. The checks and balances of our 3-tier system have remained, and government effectiveness depends on the elimination of duplication between Federal and State governments and their willingness to co-operate with each other. Now, however, we have a Federal Government which would dearly love to abolish the States, abolish existing local government authorities and abolish the Upper House of Federal Parliament. This explains the endeavour to break up local councils by regionalising them and making them increasingly dependent on federal money. Power usually resides where the purse is fullest, and such centralisation of power would actually reduce the effectiveness of government in Australia. For even if power were made to reside in a few hands, wisdom would rarely reside in the same hands. 
Canberra is not Australia. Decisions made with the best technical expertise and utmost conscientiousness by public servants run the grave risk of being remote from grass-roots thinking, and the rise of a second generation of Canberra public servants should give us further reason to question this centralising process. This largely unsought role is an unfair imposition upon conscientious public servants. I am a long term admirer of the professional bureaucrats as public servants; that is, I admire their expertise as advisers, but wish to resist their being placed in the situation of supplanting the elected decision makers. 
Thus I believe that effective government is attained best by a consensus of views and action by our 3 tiers of government. When I talk of consensus, perhaps I should say that I see a pattern of conflict and consensus as a continuum. Conflict might be natural and healthy, but in the interests of the entire community it must be resolved in a way and for a duration which produces stability without stagnation. The consensus of which I speak for the purpose of resolving our inflation is one between 3 federally structured entities- government, the unions and the employers. One would eventually wish to see machinery for these 3 federal entities to exchange views on a regular basis in place of the very limited pre-Budget submissions to government. 
Such machinery would be more effective, however, if we had fewer unions and employer organisations. 
Unfortunately, the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  is not listening to me. He has frequently observed that we have far too many unions. I thoroughly agree with this comment and equally believe that we have far too many employer organisations and trade associations. This proliferation of personalities makes the settlement of industrial disputes difficult and the control of inflation correspondingly harder. We have over 300 trade unions and many more employer and trade associations. We need more amalgamations on both sides of the industrial fence and a greater centralisation of authority in the hands of persons elected to carry out the democratically ascertained views of the members. This centralisation of authority would, however, preserve the federal structure and that is quite different from the Government's desire to centralise policy making and decentralise administration of those policies. I am talking of policy making federally but with real authority for implementation centrally. I believe that our current level of industrial disputation and wage cost inflation would be lower if we had co-operative federalism at the governmental level paralleled by a relatively small number of federally structured unions and employer organisations. 
It is a tribute to  Mr Hawke's  charisma that people think he is powerful. In truth he operates from a position of great constitutional weakness.  His  counterpart amongst the employers,  Mr Polites,  is equally dependent upon his considerable powers of persuasion. Leaving personalities aside, however, industrial relations in Australia would be less chaotic if we had what was tantamount to a 2-party system in the industrial arena. The role of government in that arena should be minimal. There are, of course, some people who seem to find comfort in this fragmentation and who fear that more centralised union power will fall into the hands of militants. To them I can only reply that this is quite possible but that history shows us that more often than not real power brings a sense of responsibility and accountability. 
The problem of framing appropriate legislation for protecting the rights of individual unionists while facilitating easier amalgamations has proved to be a vexed one. It is important, however, to point out that even if such legislation had been agreed upon by the Parliament, amalgamations could not be imposed from above. Before genuine, long term mergers can be effected there must be a desire by officials and active members of the organisations concerned to unite in the interests of their members. Often the greatest obstacles to such mergers will be the desire of officers, paid and honorary, to be big fish in small ponds, and no legislation can alter that mentality. This fact is relevant to the recent talk of a so-called 'social contract'. Ignoring the fact that Rousseau and other philosophers would join issue with the loose application of the term, it has some value as a guide to the consensus of which I have spoken. As it stands, however, it has been seen in Britain as a contract between the Trade Union Congress and the Labor Government, but as an unenforceable contract if the Trade Union Congress cannot persuade its members to cooperate. The Wilson Government has carried out its part of the bargain and has now handed over the reins of government to the TUC with fingers crossed lest the TUC's own members ignore the undertakings which the TUC has made on their behalf. The Confederation of British Industry has been left in the role of idle spectator. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, we have seen much the same thing happen in Australia this week. The Budget apparently was aimed at winning the support of the unions. The ball was placed in their court. It is worth considering what this method of government is doing to the institution of Parliament. The Government aroused union expectations the moment it came into office. It made the Public Service the pacesetter in wage and salary movements and spoke of such an improvement in general terms and conditions of employment that union leaders would have been thought irresponsible by their members if they had not taken advantage of this benevolent climate. A mad merry-go-round was begun with the Government's blessing. While not being the only cause of inflation, it has greatly aggravated matters to the point where wage earners in particular are seeing their savings and earnings eroded by inflation and are then asked to stop the music and bring the merry-go-round to a halt. 
Having observed that a really effective tripartite Federal compact is desirable but not yet attainable I would not like my time to expire without at least suggesting one constructive idea capable of immediate consideration. I believe that thought should be given to a permanent committee of economic advisers able to give expert advice to the Australian Loan Council so as to enable that body to draw up a rolling plan or a set of guidelines upon which unions and employer organisations could comment. I think it is very relevant in the light of what the honourable member for Port Adelaide said to the effect that the Budget was no longer to be a year to year plan. If we are not to have a Budget presented on that basis- and I agree with that view- we should have a longer rolling plan capable of being updated. In this way the retraining of personnel and the redeployment of capital would be effected more smoothly instead of in the jarring manner which resulted from the present Government 's sweeping tariff policies. 
My final observation is that when sufficient individual employers and unions give practical application to job re-design programs aimed at bringing the overall quality of working life into line with the quality of life outside the working place, and when more managements recognise that affluence and education have created expectations which cannot be satisfied by traditional systems of work, there will be a better chance of some reduction in the level of wage demand relative to productivity improvement. There should be less job turnover, less plant disputation, less absenteeism and more productivity. The wagecost element of inflation ought therefore to be less than at present. Union leaders would not cease claiming a larger slice of the cake but they would at least be more likely to co-operate in building a larger cake to share. 
Sanity will only return to industrial relations when management recognises that its most important asset is people and when unions recognise that 'profit' and 'productivity' are not necessarily dirty words. These observations, however, in no way relieve the Government of its duty to control inflation by its own fiscal, monetary and taxation policies. Its strangling of the private sector concurrent with a record expansion of public spending can hardly be expected to win it other than the criticism that it has received for the discharge of its obligations. 
Finally, I wish to make an observation of a long term nature regarding inflation. It is that our materialism may need to be curbed. Perhaps we will need to search for a happy medium between economic growth for its own sake and the goal of no growth at all- a goal which some students of our current investment recession may be forgiven for thinking is now part of Government policy. For those reasons, I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
-My question which is directed to the Acting Prime Minister is a follow-up to the question by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. Did the Acting Prime Minister say on Sunday night: 'You can't cure inflation in any situation by causing your economy to contract'? Does the Acting Prime Minister deny that the economy has already contracted to a serious degree? In view of this grave contraction, when may the people of Australia expect to hear details of the vague policies the Acting Prime Minister foreshadowed relating to productivity, investment, technological advance, exports, unemployment and unused capacity? 
I support the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  but I also share his belief that legislation on this subject is essential. The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  described the situation illustrated by the Moore v. Doyle case as 'notorious'. This is undoubtedly correct. The public interest has suffered repeatedly as a result of the conflict stemming from differing requirements of Federal and State industrial law. It is worth observing that in December 1969 the National Labour Advisory Council recognised this and agreed to appoint a working party to study the subject. The working party included representatives of 4 State Departments of Labour which were involved, the Federal Department of Labour, the Federal Attorney-General's Department, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and employer organisations. That working party met between 1970 and 1972. It described the basic problem which was facing Australia in these terms: 
The basic problem, of which the case of Moore v. Doyle and other cases provide illustrations, arises from the fact that a State branch of a Federal union and a State union are often administered as if they were the same body, with one set of books, one register of members, one membership fee, one set of officers, one election of officers of both bodies and one system of meetings. In some cases the rules of the State union are complied with and the rules of the State branch of the Federal union are ignored and in other cases the position is reversed. In further cases the affairs of the State union and the State branch of the Federal union are conducted under an 'administrative amalgam' of the rules of each but not pursuant to the rules of either. 
The working party then quoted from the concluding passages of the Industrial Court's judgment as follows: 'When factional differences arise in trade unions, or when it suits the interest of some litigant or litigants to do so, the Federal of State body can be attacked and its valid operation, its entitlement to assets, funds and membership, imperilled. " 
Furthermore the validity of membership in one body or the other may be difficult to establish in cases in which membership has to be proved as a condition of exercising jurisdiction or to qualify or enable a person to be or to be made a party in legal proceedings. The system as required to exist by State and Federal legislation and as it has evolved under that legislation in practice is technical, productive of artificialities and in urgent need of the attention of the law reformer. 
A system of trade union organisation is urgently needed which would enable the one body to represent its relevant members in both the Federal and State arbitration systems and it should be possible for Federal and State authorities to examine the question whether organisations and trade unions can be provided with such a system. 
The report then went on: 
All representatives on the working party were agreed that an attempt 'should be made to overcome the difficulties adverted to by the Australian Industrial Court. It was also recognised that the respective legislative authorities could not be restricted as to their approach to a solution to the problems. The State departmental representatives took the view that any State legislation aimed at long-term solutions would complement Australian Government legislation and, therefore, it would be necessary for the States to have firm 
Australian Government proposals for consideration before they could determine the form of their legislation. 
That is obviously a most important point which the working parry recommended, and the mere fact of the Sweeney report having been circulated to the States is insufficient for the States to have prepared legislation complementary to the Bill which is now before us. That I believe is a most important point. The report then went on with one further paragraph which is again important in the light of the Minister 's own statement. It stated: 
Subsequent to the working party's deliberations, the opinion of  Mr R.  E. McGarvie Q.C. was obtained on the proposals of the Australian Government departmental representatives. He recommended several additional proposals which have been accepted by the Australian Government departmental representatives. For the sake of completeness  Mr McGarvie  's proposals have been incorporated in this report. 
I think the importance of that is obvious. The report of the working party, which was in fact lengthy, was the result of a very thorough examination by all the interested parties- the 4 State governments, the ACTU and the National Employers Policy Committee. Moreover, its report was substantiated by  Mr McGarvie,  Q.C, the very person to whom the Minister turned when he appointed  Mr Justice  Sweeney. I was not a member of the last Liberal-Country Party Government. I am not seeking to go over history and therefore score political points, but I do say that in the position which I formerly occupied as an employers' representative in this field I believe that the report of the working party from which I have just read very relevant extracts would have been adopted and implemented by the Liberal-Country Party Government had it remained in office in 1972. We have actually lost 1 8 months, which need not have occurred. 
The amendment which has been moved to the second reading is in fact now asking the Government to take a few more weeks or months, to use the expression of the honourable member for Wannon, to be sure that the legislation being proposed here is in fact acceptable to the States and will be seen to be workable in the eyes of those people who have to make it work. As it happens,  His  Honour  Mr Justice  Sweeney came to much the same conclusions as the working party came to, but what is important is that the people who have to make the system work ought to have before them a package of legislation. The honourable member for Wannon has referred to the constitutional problems which may arise, and it is important that those who have to operate the legislation have before them the legislation of the States which must be passed complementary to this Bill. Then it would be possible to see whether this Bill is in fact able to do the job it sets out to do, and if it requires minor modification that can then be made. 
It is a matter of record that the Minister for Labor and Immigration meets his State counterparts frequently. What is not a matter of record, however, is the extent to which they have discussed this legislation. Certainly no draft State legislation is available to us, although the Minister said in his second reading speech he believed there would be support from State Ministers. Doubt has now been cast upon this by the honourable member for Wannon.. What is important is that the unions and employers who have to make the complex of State and Federal legislation work should have the chance to study it as a whole. The essence of this current Bill would surely remain, but some amendments may eventually seem desirable to all interested parties when they have a chance of studying all of the legislation. 
The Minister in his second reading speech was critical of the High Court of Australia. It is the High Court which may eventually be called upon to interpret this Bill. If this Bill is passed by this Parliament without regard to the legislation which may be passed by the States, the likelihood is greater that the High Court may interpret conflicting legislation of this Parliament and of the State Parliaments in a manner different from that intended by the Minister. In those circumstances it would be most unjust for the Minister to criticise the High Court. If, however, the legislation is agreed upon by the Ministers as a package, there would be less danger of that happening. 
Industrial relations in Australia are complicated enough without unilateral legislation on this vexed subject. We cannot afford to have a sequel to the Moore v. Doyle case, or worse, we cannot afford to have a case as traumatic as the infamous Boilermakers' Case of 1956. On that occasion the nature of the Commonwealth's judicial and industrial powers was examined and legislation was radically overturned. If Federal and State agreement is not reached on the precise details of State legislation before this Bill is passed, we could have at least misunderstandings and more confusion in industrial relations and, at worst, another High Court case on our hands. 
I believe most strongly that the role of both the parliaments and the courts should be minimal in industrial relations. As it is, our Federal system makes industrial law one of the most complex branches of the law. Let us not make it more complex. We have lost 18 months. A little longer will not cause any further harm, whereas undue haste in this Parliament without the package of complementary legislation would cause enormous harm. It would add to the conflict between Federal and State governments. It would irritate Federal and State union officials and confuse the public, which is already finding industrial relations difficult enough to fathom, and accentuate the role of the parliaments and the courts. There is therefore a need for a full review of the interaction of all State legislation with this Bill in order to see whether this Bill should be modified in the interests of those outside the Parliament who are obliged to make it work. There is some doubt about the constitutional validity of the Bill. Although  Mr Justice  Sweeney is satisfied that his recommendations do not offend the Constitution, we would all feel on safer ground if the 4 States agreed that this was so. 
One of the most vexed matters in the legislation relates to section 88e of the New South Wales Industrial Arbitration Act. This section relates to persons not easily categorised as either employers or employees because they are largely self-employed, such as owner-drivers. On page 22 of the report of the working party mention is made of this problem. It stresses the need for conjoint Commonwealth and State legislation.  Mr Justice  Sweeney, in fact, at page 16 of his report recommended the solution adopted by this Bill, but it is surely relevant that this Parliament be sure that the New South Wales Parliament will pass complementary legislation. On page 2 1 of his report  Mr Justice  Sweeney said: 
Those concerned with operating a system of dual registration and incorporation clamoured for a change. 
A change is called for; there is no doubt about that. But that change should be wrought by consensus. Both the ACTU and the NEPC agree that changes are necessary. Agreement between these 2 bodies is all too rare as it is, but it is important that when they agree there should now be agreement between the Federal and State governments as to the precise terms of legislation. We have no evidence of this before the Parliament to date. I think it is important to illustrate that point by reference again to the working party's report. At page 8 of the working party's report the ACTU views are recorded as follows: 
The ACTU representative was of the view that the basic requirement to overcome the Moore v. Doyle problems was adequate amending legislation to the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration An which it anticipated would be accompanied by complementary State legislation. Provided the problem was overcome it was not concerned as to whether the States maintained separate registration systems or adopted the South Australian concept of recognition '. 
However, the ACTU representative thought that the provision of a moratorium on challenges for a specified period might be necessary to enable unions to put their affairs in order. 
On the following page of the same report the employers ' views appear. I quote: 
The employers' representative regarded the rectification of the problem disclosed in Moore v. Doyle as primarily a matter for the Australian Government and the States. No objection was made to any of the approaches outlined above. 
What we have in this Bill is the option being exercised by  Mr Justice  Sweeney without there being any indication from the States that they are prepared to follow the same option. That, I think, is important. On page 28 of his report,  Mr Justice  Sweeney says: 
What is sought is a solution to the problems which will enable federal organisations both to operate as they do at present under the Act - 
That is the Federal Act-  and which will also enable them to participate in State industrial arbitration systems. 
That, of course, is important, and that is the object of this Bill but it does not necessarily follow that what is proposed in the next succeeding paragraphs- and therefore in this Bill- is the best means of solving the problem. I personally see great merit in the proposals of this Bill. But it does not necessarily mean that this is the best way of solving the problem because the best way of solving it is by what can be agreed upon between States and the Federal Government in preparing this package of legislation. 
On the same page of  Mr Justice  Sweeney's report, at paragraph 4, he highlights the need for more than mere complementary legislation by the States.  His  Honour has pointed out in different passages of his report that State legislation may need to be updated and modernised in other respects. It was contemplated that in many respects States may want to take the opportunity of updating their legislation at the same time as passing legislation complementary to this Bill. This is all the more reason why we should enable the States to discuss their drafts with the Minister before this Bill passes further through this House. 
The major reservation I have with the Bill relates to the uncertainty about who administers branch funds, and clarification from the Minister would assist all parties interested in this matter. Any lack of clarity could aggravate industrial relations because the largest number of fights, or the biggest cause of fights, between Federal and State branches of unions are always over money. 
For this reason the situation should be clarified for all concerned. Finally, I must stress again that we must be careful not to create more problems by haste than we would solve by just a little more patience and a little consultation. If this Bill is passed and the States do not pass complementary legislation the industrial relations scene could become even more confused than it is already. I trust therefore that the Minister will convene a special meeting of the State Ministers to ensure that the large measure of consensus already reflected in the Sweeney report is converted into a joint legislative package before the Bill proceeds. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Riordan)  adjourned. 
-I wish to speak on the estimates for the AttorneyGeneral's Department and to make particular reference to the Australian Legal Aid Office. The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  announced in a Press release dated 6 June 1974 that there had been established the Australian Legal Office whose stated purpose is:  to provide legal advice and assistance to the socially deprived and people for whom the Australian Government has a special responsibility such as those on social services, Aborigines, ex-servicemen and migrants. 
The actual function of the Office is set out in the Press statement. I quote again: 
The Office will give legal advice free to anybody with an element of need. If legal representation is needed, the financial test will be whether the person is able to afford the cost of litigation. 
This is a most commendable and most needed service in 5 States. So far as one can judge it is a service which has long been lacking in 5 States. Moreover the concept of having duty lawyers, which is also mentioned in the Press release, in the petty sessions jurisdiction is a most important , advance again at least in 5 States. But the sole source of our knowledge on this matter is the Press release and a series of Press releases thereafter from the Attorney-General. Although we have seen no legislation before this Parliament we have a Budget allocation of $12.4m for legal aid, including $2 for Aboriginal legal aid services. The total for the Australian Legal Aid Office is $8.8m of which $3.7m Will be paid by the Office to the private profession in legal aid matters. That is a large sum of money to be allocated without any semblance of legislation to justify it. 
The first Press release of 6 June went on to state: 
The Australian Legal Aid Office will provide a community legal aid service that will work in conjunction with the private legal profession and with other legal aid and community welfare organisations. 
The new Director will liaise with existing legal aid organisations conducted by the States and the Law Societies to avoid duplication and to work out the best roles for the respective services. 
It is important to note that most States have made an effort to provide legal aid services but the most extensive service has been provided by New South Wales. This service has existed since 1943 when the Legal Assistance Act of New South Wales was passed by the then Labor Government and it has since been extended by the current Liberal-Country Party Government. I had the privilege of working in the Public Solicitor's Office for 8 years and I know the very valuable work which that Office performed for the very same socially deprived persons whom the Attorney-General is hoping to help by his proposals. 
I know that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby),  who is at the table, would agree that the Office has provided most valuable work. The Public Solicitor's Office in New South Wales currently has a staff of 70 officers, including 28 solicitors. It also has branches in Wollongong and Newcastle and until 6 August it has had responsibility for aU civil proceedings. From that date the Law Society of New South Wales has taken over responsibility for civil proceedings in the legal aid area and has extended the means test which was then applying to the Public Solicitor's Office. The Public Solicitor's Office now in conjunction with that move will extend into, and has since 6 August been intending to extend into, areas of petty sessions jurisdiction- that is, the very sort of area again which is proposed by the AttorneyGeneral for the Legal Aid Office. 
What is important is that despite the extract from which I have read in the Press statement of 6 June there appears not to have been in the State of New South Wales consultation between the Attorney-General for the Commonwealth of Australia and the New South Wales Government in respect of its legal aid services. This is an important clash- and an important waste of money and duplication of services. The New South Wales jurisdiction, almost concurrent so it seems with proposals of the Federal AttorneyGeneral, has been extended so that the Public Solicitor can now act in petty sessions matters in a widened consent jurisdiction, widened by the New South Wales Crimes Act amendments. Also it Will extend to committal proceedings generally. This is a most welcome piece of law reform and a most welcome extended service by the New South Wales Government. But we still have the appearance of competition and lack of coordination between the Commonwealth and State Governments. 
We understand that the Attorney-General intends to open an office in Newcastle. Indeed that office may have already been opened. The office is to have an opening complement of 4 solicitors with one more solicitor to come plus secretarial staff. The branch in Newcastle of the New South Wales Public Solicitor's Office has been able to provide quite adequate service with one solicitor and secretarial staff aided of course by circuit counsel and solicitors from the Sydney office. We have then the spectacle of duplication by the Commonwealth Government when we could have had with co-operation between the 2 Governments an expansion of the existing services provided by the Public Solicitor's Office. 
In the past 12 months the Public Solicitor's Office conducted over 15,000 interviews and it handled well over 500 divorce cases and other cases in connection with family law. An allocation was made to the Public Solicitor's Office in the recent New South Wales Budget for 1974-75 of $536,903. Also in that Budget an allocation of $123,250 was made to the Public Defenders, of whom there are six. An allocation of $145,000 was made in respect of an item entitled 'For the Defence of Impecunious Persons'. How much will the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth spend in New South Wales? What duplication will there be and what will be the waste of public moneys? Surely the Commonwealth Attorney-General should have concentrated in other country areas of New South Wales and in other States of Australia. He should certainly have worked in conjunction with the New South 
Wales Government to extend the Public Solicitor's Office. 
I am very reliably informed that the addition of 20 professionals to the New South Wales Public Solicitor's Office at a cost of approximately $200,000 would double the work load and the capacity of the Office and this would bring greater benefit to the very persons whom the Attorney-General is seeking to assist. The Office could widen the means test and extend services at far less cost to the Australian taxpayer and with far less ill will among the salaried staff. The Attorney-General has spoken of his Australian Legal Aid Office being the model of what a salaried staff can do in the legal profession. That model has been in New South Wales since 1943 and has proved all of the things which the Attorney-General says can be done by salaried staff. 
I believe that we are entitled to an explanation. The community of Australia through this Parliament is entitled to an explanation for this apparent contradiction of the AttorneyGeneral's own stated aims and the huge items of expenditure which we see in this Budget for the Legal Aid Office which is not even established by legislation and upon which there has been no debate in this Parliament. I do not begrudge the $ 12.5m per annum which is being spent on legal aid throughout Australia. But I believe that it would be better spent by not competing with New South Wales and that this matter should have been the subject of legislation by this Parliament. 
-It appears from what the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  has said that we may have been proceeding under some misapprehension. He said that it is contemplated that a committee of the Senate will consider this matter. I have the authority of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  to say that if the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is sitting at the table, is prepared to give an assurance to the Opposition that what the honourable member for Cook said is correct, namely, that this Bill will be referred to a committee either of the Senate or of the joint Houses- we would prefer of the joint Houses- in those circumstances the Opposition will be prepared to withdraw its amendment. The misapprehension appears to be in two forms. First, the honourable member for Cook and other honourable members seem to ssume that the Opposition is deliberately adopting delaying tactics in order to defeat an important social reform and, secondly, because we were under the distinct impression that the Government was hastening this legislation, although we could not see why, perhaps the Special Minister of State may consider the situation and inform the Opposition after the suspension of the sitting. 
Proceeding on the basis that the amendment is, in fact, before the Chair and that the assurance is not yet forthcoming, I should like to mention that in his second reading speech the Special Minister of State expressed the hope that there would be a bi-partisan approach to the debate on this Bill. I am sure that there would have been a more bi-partisan approach than the Government seems to believe has occurred had it not been for the fact that there appeared to be great haste in rushing through the many complex matters which this Bill contains. The honourable member for Hotham made this clear in his remarks which I certainly support, as I do his amendment at this juncture. This actually is a matter which the Opposition wishes to approach most constructively and not in a spirit of obstructionism. 
In the Committee stage of the debate I will endeavour to make some comments of a constructive nature on particular clauses of the Bill, but meanwhile I want to raise some general matters of a kind not really referred to in the Minister's second reading speech. One would not want to be critical of the Minister's second reading speech. There was a limit to what he could say but there is a great deal on this matter not said in his speech. From what has been said by the honourable member for Cook it appears that some supporters of the Government at least believe that the Opposition is proceeding in a fashion that is determined to delay the Bill in order to frustrate the Government's intentions. This certainly is not the case in terms of the general objectives of social reform but it is the case in terms of the way in which the matter has been approached and the manner in which the scheme may be implemented. 
We believe that the Bill should be considered thoroughly as a Bill and not merely as an inquiry and should be examined by the persons who are most knowledgeable of the industry, that is, the insurance industry and the legal profession, which the Government seems to think have such a vested interest and such an interest in the status quo that they are totally against the Bill. This is not so. Both those areas have made it quite clear that they are not so diametrically opposed but they do have, nevertheless, strong views from their own experience about the way in which this matter should be handled. The Government would be wise, we believe, and the joint committee, if set up, would be wise to examine carefully the views of both the legal profession and the insurance industry. 
It seems strange, on the face of it, to pass a Bill and then seek amendments to the Act which has been made rather than to have the Bill tabled and amended in draft form. This, of course, was done with the trade practices legislation introduced by the Menzies Government, and we would recommend that it be done now. As the Minister said in his second reading speech, this Bill is of great social significance. It is a social measure of great significance. For many years people have recognised the points made by the honourable member for Cook. It is wrong for him to think that the Opposition has not understood the essence of what he was saying. For many years people have been aware of the shortcomings of the law of negligence. As with the notion of fault in divorce matters, the notion of fault in civil proceedings is utterly unreal in a modern, complex, industrial society. Both the common law right and workers compensation actions have been the subject of legal fictions because the courts have striven to give compensation beyond the original boundaries of the rights of action. Even judicial interpretation of the most liberal kind could not extend compensation to victims of home accidents and criminal assaults. Nor could it cover congenital or other disabilities at least not without trauma, uncertainty, expense and more fiction. The object of this Bill therefore is most commendable and it is foolish indeed for the Government to force the Bill through the House when there are still so many glaring anomalies in its proposals. 
I will endeavour to list some of these anomalies rather briefly at this point and in more detail later. I trust that the Minister will accept the comments in the spirit in which they are intended. If we raise matters which the Government has overlooked, the Government should be indebted to the Opposition. Equally if the Government can allay our fears or rebut some of our allegations, we are all somewhat the wiser. It is important that we look at the following questions and the Minister may well care to advise us, when he replies in this debate, bis attitude on these points. Firstly, I should like to know the reason for hurrying the Bill and whether he will give the assurance to which I have referred especially when  Senator Wheeldon  has stressed so often that the main thrust of his reforms in the area of safety and rehabilitation, and compensation, which is the content of this Bill, is seen to be the last resort when preventive and rehabilitative measures have failed. It is important that we understand why the last resort is being pressed through the House before the first 2 priorities. 
Secondly, what are we to make of  Senator Wheeldon  's assurances to the Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions? This is very important for all employers around the country. A news release from the Department of Repatriation and Compensation states: 

 Senator Wheeldon assured the Executive that there would be no provision in the Bill which would preclude the possibility of employees entering into arrangements with employers to provide payments in excess of the statutory 83 per cent. 
What are we to make of that? First of all, we can envisage more industrial relations pressures and trauma when some persons now on 100 per cent of average weekly earnings get 85 per cent under the proposed scheme and press their employers for the remaining 15 per cent. Then we will get great inequities for those on 85 per cent and who are unable to get 100 per cent by pressuring their employers. That surely defeats one of the most important aspects of the Bill. Thirdly, why is the Government determined to administer the scheme by public servants? Does the Government not recognise that, firstly, the community does not want any more huge inefficient Government departments, and secondly, that there will be widespread retrenchments in the insurance industry if the workers compensation and common law rights of action disappear from the field of the insurance industry? More people will be unemployed in the insurance industry, more Australian insurance companies will be in financial difficulties, more expertise will be wasted and there will not necessarily be, as far as one can see at the moment, any cost saving as a result of this scheme being administered by a Government department which would now have to be formed. 
When one is talking of costs, will the Minister undertake to give the Parliament a costing of the 4 major national schemes which are now proposed, these four being the Bill which is now before the House, and those which will follow concerning safety and rehabilitation, and health, training and superannuation? Will the Minister inform the House later in this debate the attitude of the Government to many matters raised by the Law Council of Australia? Some of the Council's specific criticisms will be raised in the Committee stage but it would be helpful to know before we enter into Committee whether the Government has considered the forceful points made by the Law Council in respect of a citizen's right to compensation being decided by public servants, bearing in mind that these are public servants of the Department funding the scheme. Furthermore they are public servants exercising wide delegated discretion in private, not in open, session as courts are always held. Many of the matters upon which the departmental officers are expected to rule have caused our courts great difficulty over the years. 
It is very easy for members of the Government such as the honourable member for Cook to criticise the courts, but the courts and their rights to public hearings with representation of witnesses is surely one of the most cherished parts of our entire social and judicial structure. One hates to say it but one would be most naive not to warn the Government that if it allows wide discretion to be exercised and the reasons for the decisions to remain secret, it will have created a serious possibility of graft in the Public Service. Our Public Service has an excellent reputation for integrity but it would be foolish to ignore the lessons of other countries and to depart too readily from all of the traditions associated with the assessment of damages. The courts often are criticised for their formality but statutes and other traditions have sometimes obliged the courts to follow procedures which are degrading to witnesses and to parties. Acts of Parliament can remove the necessity for these degrading aspects. Indeed in this legislation we are going part of the way towards that, but to abandon them altogether in favour of a bureaucracy empowered to cross- examine an unrepresented person flies in the face of all that we cherish in our judicial system. The fact of there being an appeal to a quasi-judicial tribunal is of little comfort when such a major right is taken away in a Bill which would otherwise be introducing some commendable new rights. 
In the Committee stage I will comment on some of the more commendable features. I do not have at the moment a well-considered alternative to the administrative matters which are proposed by the report and the Bill, but given more time I believe that many contributions from this side of the House could be made to make the scheme operate more equitably and more practicably. Furthermore, I believe the Minister ought to inform the Parliament whether the Law Council's other comments have been taken into account by the Government. I repeat that the Law Council has firmly supported the introduction of a national compensation scheme to provide compensation regardless of fault, but it has added 2 very important reservations about the manner of introducing such a scheme. I quote from a letter sent to all members of Parliament by the Law Council of Australia. It states: 
It is the view of the Law Council that in making such a basic change to the rights of the seriously injured, by the introduction of an untried scheme of uncertain operation, existing common law rights should not be extinguished at this stage. Until the new scheme is given a fair period of trial to demonstrate that it is in the public interests for it to operate alone, the injured should remain entitled to recover damages at common law (after giving credit for amounts received or receivable under the new scheme). Only in this way can the community feel confident that the scheme to give compensation to all is not being introduced at the expense of the seriously injured. 
I might add that, like the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  I am personally uncertain about the validity of those observations, but I believe that the establishment of a committee of this House or the joint Houses to examine this question would be a very wise move before adopting a scheme which abolishes a right which has evolved over many years. It seems to me that the statement of the Law Council is reasonable and requires a reasonable reply. 
Another matter on which I believe the Minister should inform the House relates to the insurance industry. In his second reading speech the Minister, and also the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  three nights ago made it clear that Australian companies would be hurt because at the moment they have 80 per cent of the workers compensation and motor vehicle third party insurance. But this will now be taken away from them. It was made clear by the Minister and by the Treasurer that a committee has been established by the Government for liaison between the insurance industry and the Government and that one of the first matters to be dealt with is the impact of this Bill on the industry. It is important to note that the Government said that it was committed to the principle of this Bill. One would like to know whether the principle referred to merely concerned the administration of the scheme or whether it was the principle of the absence of fault in the granting of compensation to all persons irrespective of how they came by their disabilities. If, in fact, it is conceivable for the Government still to talk to the insurance industry about the administration of the scheme, all members of the House will obviously be most relieved to know that the Government is not irrevocably determined to establish a huge bureaucracy and is not determined to turn its back on the expertise available in the insurance companies, which could well act as agents for the Government in the administration of the scheme. 
I should like to raise many other matters. I again repeat my belief that it is desirable to guarantee a reasonable income to all disabled people and to bring them much closer to the standard of living of the industrially injured and persons who otherwise suffer accidents and are compensated. But we have not had enough debate on the method of doing this. One has to ask about the method of assessment which is proposed. How, for example does one assess the handicap suffered by a person with a congenital disability and that of a person who was born without a disability but has subsequently suffered one? How would a former taxi driver who has since become a clerk be assessed? Also, one has to ask why we are tied to the question of economic evaluation. One feels that the Bill contemplates people being economic units rather than people. How again are we to deal with the problems of headaches and backaches which people say they have? True, the Bill provides for only long term illnesses, but if someone tells a doctor he has a recurring headache or backache, of course the doctor has no way of actually knowing whether the person is telling the truth and there will be many dilemmas if these problems arise. 
-The position now is that the person has a right of recovery at common law or as workers' compensation. 
-They recover now if they prove fault, and I have agreed with you that fault is unnecessary. A person recovers now for pain and suffering when a doctor says: 'Yes, he says he has a headache or a backache and I have no way of knowing whether this is so. ' Finally, from a philosophical point of view, we have the dilemma of how actually to compensate people without removing an incentive to overcome a handicap. Just compensation provided expeditiously without removing dignity and without being condescending is very important. We must recognise people as people and not merely as economic units, and not merely pay them when they are unable to work and say: 'Because you are unable to work those who are able to work will provide for you'. This can add to the disgruntlement, the self-pity and the psychological problems that exist. In the Committee stage I shall make more specific comments. I support the stand taken by the honourable member for Hotham and I repeat his undertaking that the Opposition will withdraw the amendment if an assurance is forthcoming from the Minister that the matter will be dealt with either by a committee of the Senate, this House or of the joint Houses before the Bill proceeds further. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Coates)  adjourned. 
I too wish to draw attention to clause 4, the interpretation section, which relates to the definition of incapacity. It states: incapacity', in relation to a person, means the impairment of- 
the ability of that person to engage in work that is useful or gainful . . . 
One may ask, useful or gainful to whom? This is a most important point. Is it useful or gainful to the community, or useful or gainful to the person in spiritual and satisfying terms? The second part of that interpretation states: 
the well-being of that person . . . 
One may well ask whether the incapacity referred to in clause 20 of the Bill extends to women whoare pregnant. This Government introduced maternity allowances, and I would appreciate on behalfof the women of Australia, some clarification about whether this definition of incapacity in clause 20 extends to the maternity leave situation. Many women in Australia need to work for economic reasons and tend to work as long as possible into their pregnancies, often to the detriment of their health, simply because they require the extra money. The Government, having been prepared to introduce maternity leave, should now confirm that in fact the physical or mental disability mentioned in clause 20 applies to maternity situations. 
One has to ask why the qualifying age for benefits in the interpretation clause of the Bill is specified to commence at 18 years of age and what situation justifies it stopping at age 65. In clause 18 is a clear provision that benefits shall stop at the age of 65. One has to ask again whether people are being seen as people or simply as economic units in the community. What about the situation of someone with a congenital illness who is unable to get employment and who becomes compensated only when he is 18 for the incapacity he has suffered, but is apparently never compensated for the lack of learning before age 18? One of the difficulties about abolishing the common law right is in this area. In the case of injuries to children, will the administrative apparatus ever be as fair and respected as the judicial apparatus and will the Bill extend retrospectivity to an assessment of injuries and illnesses suffered by children before they reach the age of 18? Will children have to wait until they are 18 to collect any compensation, and then what amount will they get? Will they receive training and rehabilitation before they are 18? Will their parents receive money to help them to provide additional items that normal children do not require? Or is the injured or congenitally ill child to be written off and pensioned as an uneconomic unit? Do doctors have to keep a record on the child until he is 18? How else can they prove the extent of the disability? These are questions that I believe need answering. 
Certain exemptions are provided in clause 13 of the Bill. It states: 
The application of this Act does not extend to or in relation to any injury suffered by a person in the course of committing, or of attempting to commit, any of the following crimes, unless the injury results in death: murder, maliciously or wilfully wounding or inflicting grievous bodily harm; piracy; an act done with the intention of endangering a person on board a vehicle, vessel or aircraft; or revolt against the authority of the master of a ship or the commander of an aircraft. 
One has to ask why this list is so confined. It would be of interest to know the reasons behind it. It is commendable that under this Bill persons will receive compensation for injuries suffered as a result of criminal activity. But it would be interesting to know what has led the Government to that decision. I may mention also in respect of clause 18 that presumably, seeing that the magical retirement age in the Commonwealth Public Service seems to be 60 now and as there is certainly a trend in the community' towards a retiring age of 60, the age of 65 contained in that clause presumably will undergo some change. But again we ask why this is the age specified. Why does clause 22 (3) specify that a benefit in respect of sickness is as restricted as it is? There was no explanation in the second reading speech of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  Presumably one who is injured at the age of 65 will receive payment until he is 69 if he receives - 
-The Minister indicates that that is so. Perhaps the Minister could explain why that is so. 
-A common law right now, but a common law right if a person is injured at 72 now, which would not exist under this scheme. 
A person injured at the age of 69 can be covered for another 4 years? That presumably must have some relation to the expectation of life, but it would be interesting to hear the Minister's explanation. 
I turn now to clause 28 and clause 33 which relate to the assessment of income and the rate of benefit for partially incapacitated persons. There seems to be a slight inconsistency in the wording in these clauses in the way the amount is related to average weekly earnings. Clause 28 provides that the amounts arrived at for employees and self-employed are to be up-dated in accordance with subsequent movements in average weekly earnings to arrive at an income level. Presumably it does not mean there will be any rigid application of average weekly earnings as an index; it presumably is like clause 33 which provides that the Secretary or the Tribunal shall have regard to average weekly earnings in making his assessment of the amount to be paid to a person. 
Without being totally critical of the Bill I should like to repeat what I said before and what I think the Minister chose to ignore when he replied generally to the Opposition's case. I for one, and many others, have stressed that we support very strongly the notion of the removal of fault for compensation purposes. Also, I should like to say how much I support the notion of clearing up the problem of de facto situations, as provided in clause 44. For many years there has been a grave injustice which has been corrected now by clause 44 of the Bill. It is to the credit of the Government that that is so. I conclude by referring to clause 42 in relation to funeral benefits. Again, one would ask: Are these funeral benefits to be as absolute as appears to be so on the wording of the clause? 
-One does not have to be a scaremonger to deplore the ease with which the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  takes the situation in his own State of Tasmania. In addition to the industries in Tasmania which have been mentioned in this debate I can assure the honourable member for Wilmot that one major company, a subsidiary of Repco, will this week be obliged because of the economic downturn to put off from 12 to 20 percent of its employees in Launceston, and this is a serious situation in Australia. In the 10 minutes available to me I wish to raise 3 matters in a spirit of constructive criticism and I ask the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  to provide the House with the opportunity to debate these matters before the House rises for the Christmas recess. 
First let me say how much I applaud the creation of a separate Department of Manufacturing Industry. This is something which was long overdue in Australia. I only wish that the productive sector which it represents were respected by the Government's economic planners for those planners- or non-planners- seem to see Australian manufacturing industry as something which they can go on milking indefinitely to fund endless public spending programs. I am one who has expressed himself in favour of many of the Government's social reforms, but I make the general observation that the Government cannot go on funding them all and funding them at once when it has economic circumstances and economic policies which are crippling manufacturing industries. This is not the Budget debate strictly, so I shall not pursue that line of criticism. 
When many Government members and some of their more vocal supporters talk of manufacturing they are preoccupied with multi-nationals and large Australian companies. They overlook the fact that 93 per cent of Australian manufacturing companies employ fewer than 100 people; hardly big business. In fact, nearly 90 per cent employ fewer than 50 persons and, on the statement of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  factories employing 100 persons or less account for 47 per cent of all employment in manufacturing, 40 per cent of the total value of output, 96.5 per cent of all factories and a very large percentage of Australian ownership in manufacturing. This is most important for the well being of our economy. It is the small business, therefore, with which I wish to concern myself, in the few minutes allotted to me. 
There are 3 matters to which I wish to direct the attention of the Minister. The first matter is the industry panels. When the industry panels were first created there were many persons in industry who were highly sceptical of them. 
There were many who doubted that they would amount to anything more than a whitewashing of Government policy. It is important that industry panels exist as a forum, but I believe that the Minister owes honourable members an account of how they have been functioning, of the procedures they adopt, of the papers presented, of the calibre of persons on the panels and how they operate. Will the Minister make a statement to the House to allow us to review the operation of the panels, not for destructive purposes, not for party political purposes but because we realise that secondary industry in Australia is now entering into a serious economic problem. The most important thing is that secondary industry, through small business, employs 28 per cent of our work force and contributes one-third of our gross domestic product. This is the very gross domestic product which we are spending on social and other public spending programs. It is the very money we are giving by way of foreign aid. 
Secondly, there is the question of the Department itself and the organisational chart. In the Senate the Department has been complimented for its management and I think that the Department should be complimented in that it has not made the mistake of the Department of Urban and Regional Development and other departments in taking on massive numbers of people to be relatively unproductive. But being an infant department it has had staffing problems, and one matter which I believe the Minister should comment upon is the fact that, as I understand it, our newly established office of the Australian Development Assistance Agency has a ratio of 3 to 1 at the Assistant Secretary level when compared with the Department of Manufacturing Industry. This is hardly the fault of the Minister but I do believe he should give the Committee an indication of when this serious staffing problem will be rectified when our agency for giving away foreign aid- 0.8 per cent of our gross domestic product- can in fact be so well treated when compared with the Department representing the sector of industry which produces so much of what enables us to give foreign aid. Will the Minister inform the Committee whether he will allow debate on his proposals for overcoming the problems which confront his infant Department? I think it is very important that he do this. 
I will conclude my remarks on this sector by referring to the National Small Business Bureau. It is most important that we look at the Bureau, which was designed to try to advise small business and to try to utilise the talents of persons who have been displaced from middle management positions. The Department itself might well supplement its staff by reference to persons who, with the downturn in the economy, are now on the market and because of their age are not regarded as employable. Again, I believe that the Minister should tell us what talks he has had with the Public Service Board about supplementing his staff by reference to persons who are experienced in industry, persons who do not take an academic approach to manufacturing but who speak from experience. There should be a flow to the Department of persons who are skilled in industry, to help the Department improve its strength and its quality and help provide policy guidelines for small industry. 
This is all the more important in relation to the Small Business Bureau. In this chamber today the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, in answering a question asked of him by one of his Party members, spoke about the role of the Bureau in terms very similar to those which the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  used 18 months ago when he held the portfolio, and in terms very similar to those which the Minister for Manufacturing Industry himself used when he took up his position a year ago. There was a much publicised seminar 12 months ago, but little progress seems to have been made in the past 12 months. It is important to recognise that in the past 12 months industry has been hit harder than at any time since World War II. I commend most strongly the idea of having a National Small Business Bureau, but I think that the Minister should provide an opportunity for this chamber to debate all aspects of it by tabling a statement of progress and its aims and objects, the funding, the provision of expertise and the general operating of this National Bureau. In Britain and elsewhere there exist small industry councils and national bureaux of this type providing service on technical assistance, trade instruction, subcontract liaison, assistance for craftsmen, business management advice, market and promotional advice, credit facilities and aid for tourism. They provide a variety of loans of a capital equipment nature, working loans, assistance to employees and to staffing arrangements. A wide variety of schemes is operating overseas. There are plenty of examples for our industry bureau to follow. I believe that the Minister has a duty in the present serious economic situation to explain to this chamber, to industry, to the community and to the employees of industry what progress has been made and why the progress has been so obviously slow. When one thinks that the trade unions which support the Government are always calling for support of the small man one may well ask: What are we doing about the small man? What are we doing about the small businessman? 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. In the event of the Treasurer receiving submissions from small businesses asking that the timetable for quarterly payments of company tax be deferred, will he have regard to the grave liquidity problems now being experienced by business and the fact that 4 weeks' annual leave must be paid for by most employers by Christmas? Will the Treasurer then consider deferring such tax payments either on a general basis, thereby allowing $200m to remain in the private sector during the next few months, or on a selective basis? 
I wish to raise a matter which I would have raised yesterday in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Labor and Immigration had time permitted. I shall concentrate my remarks primarily on division 300, subdivision 3, item 04 of the estimates of that Department which concerns the grant to the National Safety Council. The ex: planation of this item of expenditure in the Department's explanation of these estimates records unequivocally the Department's high regard for the National Safety Council and acknowledges: 
It is a voluntary non-profit organisation which has existed for many years. Its aim is the promotion of safety in every sphere of activity. 
The Department's explanation records further that for its promotion of safety and the training and advisory services which the National Safety Council provides it receives a measure of support from State governments. By far the largest single amount it receives is from the Queensland State Government Insurance Office. This amounts to $175,000 and goes to the Queensland Branch of the National Safety Council. The Department records also that the balance of the Council's income is derived from subscriptions, donations, the sale of promotional material and fees for services from those companies which engage the National Safety Council. 
In 1973-74 the grant by the Department of Labor and Immigration to the National Safety Council was $100,000. This year it is raised, in money terms, by $10,000. In real terms this amounts to a lower grant because inflation is running at a rate which will be well in excess of the 10 per cent increase in the grant. This situation simply is not good enough. In saying this I am well aware that by implication I am being critical of previous Liberal-Country Party governments for having given so little to the same cause. It is one of the sad hallmarks of governmental action that attention is rarely directed to preventative measures. This is a valid criticism of areas of scientific and medical research as well as in the matter of industrial safety. However while I am, by implication, being critical of previous governments I believe I am well justified in being critical of the present miserable allocation to the National Safety Council. 
When one considers that last week in this House we had rushed through a piece of legislation to provide for a national compensation scheme at a cost to Consolidated Revenue of hundreds of millions of dollars does not the sum of $ 1 10,000 for industrial safety now seem paltry and absurd? The Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  when introducing the National Compensation Bill said that the correct order of priorities for the Government in a national program was, firstly, safety; secondly, rehabilitation; and, thirdly, compensation. I asked then why it was that we had a Bill concerning compensation first. I also asked when we would receive legislation on the other 2 matters. At that time the Minister gave no satisfactory reply. I agree with the Government's list of priorities. I believe that legislation regarding safety and rehabilitation is needed. I trust that when it is introduced it will lie on the table long enough for the Opposition to make constructive comments on it. Last week I asked a question regarding the administration of this scheme of national compensation, a matter upon which the Bill itself was silent. Again one hopes that when the administration of this safety and rehabilitation legislation is considered we will have an adequate opportunity to make comments. One hopes that when the administration is considered regard will be had for the role of existing agencies and that the Government will avoid the creation of a massive bureaucracy and will work through existing agencies, the foremost of which is certainly the National Safety Council. 
It would seem appropriate to say to the Minister for Labor and Immigration now, in case we are confronted with a fait accompli and find job advertisements in the newspapers setting out details of the bureaucracy, that he may not be consulted in any substantive way about the Bill when it eventually comes into the form of a national safety and rehabilitation scheme. It is worth drawing the Minister's attention to the fact that if his Department sees fit to make a grant it presumably has the high regard which the explanatory note says the Department has for the National Safety Council. In volume 2 of its report the Woodhouse Committee was most complimentary to the National Safety Council. I believe that what the Committee said in volume 2 at page 130, paragraph 377, is worth quoting. That paragraph provides a very concise summary of the task ahead of employers, employees and governments in the area of occupational safety. The paragraph concludes by saying: 
The National Safety Council of Australia has an important role to play in occupational safety. 
I trust that the Government will have regard to that as well as to existing State legislation and existing State activities in the field of industrial safety. I urge the Minister to ensure that in any legislation pursuant to the Woodhouse Committee report the persons preparing the scheme utilise the expertise of the National Safety Council to the full and do not contemplate any organisation which duplicates the fine work of that Council and the work which it can do. It is worth saying, when referring to the work which it can do, that because of its lack of financial resources it has not had the opportunity to do what in fact its potential has always foreshadowed. 
I urge the Minister to have officers of his Department to have discussions with the National Safety Council to find ways and means of finding further funds to supplement the meagre grant given by this Government to the National Safety Council. It should not be difficult for senior officers to find other moneys available in the current Budget. The senior officers are convinced of the worthwhileness of the National Safety Council. They participated in a conference held by the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  when he was Minister. Everyone understood the fundamental value of spending money on safety in order to save money in the long run. In both human terms and economic terms, money is saved by spending money on safety. It seems to me that the Government would do well to examine its own estimates for the Department of Labor and Immigration to find ways of transferring funds to the National Safety Council in the short term. It is a fact that large companies and medium sized companies with several hundred employees have a better safety record. These are the companies which engage the National Safety Council. It is the small companies, which have the bad safety record and which have neither the awareness of social and safety matters nor the funds to engage the National Safety Council, which need the help. They can get the help by the Government providing money to the National Safety Council. 
It stands to reason that this voluntary nonprofit organisation does need money, and if the Government were prepared to provide money on a massive scale for a few years it could produce results which in fact would be quite sensational. It would help industry to take a voluntary view of its own obligation to provide safe conditions of work. This voluntary assumption of responsibility, backed up by safety inspectors, is likely to bring a better response from industry and more practical programs than is any other means. Compulsion is usually resisted and inspectors tend to be too rigid, overbearing and impractical in their demands. Perhaps the Minister could find funds from his allocation to the trade union training program. Last year the Department spent only $55,391 on trade union training and one cannot imagine that this year even the most generous government department could in fact spend $3m, which is the allocation in this Budget. I suggest that the Minister for Labor and Immigration give serious thought to transferring part of the $3m allocated for trade union training to industrial safety, because often it is the unionists who need to be made aware of the need for industrial safety. They have a contribution to make. It would be a most valuable part of trade union training to teach them an awareness of industrial safety. 
-Has the Minister for Manufacturing Industry been acquainted with the serious situation obtaining in the flat glass industry? By that I mean and include the manufacture of float glass, sheet glass and the processing of safety glass. Does the Minister realise that 550 people have been or will have been dismissed  because of the closure of plants? Is it a fact that representatives of the company involved, namely, Pilkington ACI Ltd, has made representations to the Minister to explain the seriousness of the problem? Does the Minister realise that early in the new year virtually all of the flat glass industry in Australia will have been closed down? Is he oblivious of the cumulative effects on the company, its people and the people dependent on the services of the company? Is the Minister aware that a major contributing factor to this sorry state is imports which have been arriving at approximately double the rate of last year and are now taking up SO per cent of the market which, because of the Government's economic and fiscal policies, is sadly diminished? What is the Minister doing to urge acceptance of the company's proposals for assistance, bearing in mind that a high proportion of the imported glass is coming from so-called less developed countries? 
I support entirely and wholeheartedly the views expressed by the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  The export incentive schemes of the Liberal-Country Party Government were essentially aimed at encouraging Australian manufacturers, firstly, to develop new markets and, secondly, to increase their sales in existing markets. This Bill now before the House is aimed at developing new markets but it certainly and deliberately refuses to supply any incentive to increase the volume of sales in existing markets. It is quite inadequate for the  needs of Australian  exporters. It is certainly better than nothing, as the Leader of the Australian Country Party has said, but it does not go far enough. It does not contain anything which will encourage people to increase what now may be marginally profitable exports to markets which they have worked hard to open up. The Bill contains a clause which is aimed at eliminating so-called abuses of the previous scheme. One would have thought that it would have been possible to have inserted this clause into the existing scheme rather than to abandon part of the existing scheme and no longer provide incentives to persons who are increasing or who are capable of increasing their volume of sales in particular markets. In other words, we should eliminate the abuses rather than eliminate the incentives. 
With the serious decline in investment in Australia, to which Opposition spokesmen have often referred in this House, it is important that we have even more than we had before export incentives, even as a temporary means of stimulating investment, of producing economies of scale, of increasing output and, consequently, of increasing employment opportunities. A very serious deficiency in the Bill is that it fails to provide an incentive to export on an increasing scale to established markets. The reasoning of the Government seems to be that if one has already proved that one can export in certain areas then one has all the incentive one needs, because if one is making any kind of sale one can continue to make a sale. This is highly specious reasoning because it ignores many practical considerations. It ignores the cost of servicing the market and of maintaining people there, and it ignores the part that there are others from other countries who are competing in those markets for what is, of course, a defined and limited area. That, together with the internal pressures in Australia, has really led a lot of people to consider whether they should withdraw from the export markets in which they hold a somewhat tenuous toe-hold but could hold a greater one if incentives were given to them to stay there and to continue to expand. 
The Government's view may well have been forfeited by the statistics for the first half of this year which show the export of manufactured goods to be in a healthy state. But this is partly because of the shortage of goods on a worldwide basis. With the enormous cost pressures which Australian manufacturers are now experiencing their ability to compete overseas has declined very sharply. Therefore they need an incentive to expand existing markets as a means, as I have said, of stimulating investment and of creating employment opportunities in Australia. There is a contraction of manufacturing industry in Australia. Therefore there are fewer goods to export than previously. The profits to Australia from exports are therefore much lower than they used to be and we desperately need incentives to restore the level of export earnings. 
Not all companies will be in a position to avail themselves of the grants which this Bill proposes. Of course some companies will take advantage of these incentives in order to find new markets. But there are many which, because of the nature of their operation, will wish to expand existing markets in which they gained a toe-hold in more propitious circumstances than those which now prevail. Such companies will find it increasingly difficult to move into other markets in which they may have an equally tenuous position. Australia's high rate of inflation makes it very difficult for Australian manufacturers to compete with competitors from low labour cost countries and with countries which have more generous export incentives than Australia has ever had. They also have to compete with countries which have large populations which already produce through an economy of scale which makes the goods easier and less costly to produce. 
The Government has been praised by the Opposition for its recent export bank legislation. It is a great shame that much of the reasoning behind the Government's move in that area has not been translated into the area of export incentives. I have no doubt that the manufacturing, industrial and craft unions will share the view which has been expressed by the Opposition today. In fact, the Government should be promoting exports on a major basis at this time as a means of maintaining a viable and vital private sector in the economy. The Government should recognise that not only is there the need for increased investment and higher employment opportunities but also there is a need to retain technical expertise and continued productivity improvement. It is this productivity improvement rather than massive Government handouts which will make the greatest contribution to an increase in the standard of living of all Australians. Export incentives and increased earnings from exports will go a long way towards achieving that. 
These are very general observations. I shall now make some rather more specific points on the Bill. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in his second reading speech said that the Bill aims at developing new markets rather than at perpetuating payments on exports. The Minister also said that he has discussed this scheme with exporters. Yet I would be amazed if any of those exporters who have spoken to the  Deputy  Prime Minister would have asked the Government to perpetuate payments on exports. Rather they would have asked for something akin to the Liberal-Country Party scheme which gave them an incentive on an increased volume of exports, which is hardly a matter of perpetuating payments on exports. This grant on the increased volume of exports would take into account the sales position at the end of a given 12 months and compensate or make a grant as an incentive for the improvement in sales in that area in the following 12 months. This would in fact assist those who have spent a lot of money on sales promotion in a particular area, who have to continue to spend money to service existing clients and who, under this Bill, will not be compensated for that continued follow up work 
One would think that the extension of a market by many companies or many industries would, in many cases, be more economic to the company and more beneficial to Australia in terms of a return on investment and higher employment levels than in finding new markets. One can spread some of one's goods too thinly. Industries vary. It must be a matter for each company to decide whether it will expand the existing market or whether it will seek a new market. But this Bill denies the right of a company to make that kind of choice. Now companies will decide either to contract and close markets which are only marginally beneficial without further incentives or they will be forced to move into new areas. We could face a problem here with some of our largest export earners, such as in the expensive capital equipment area where the problem can be solved only with a very heavy outlay and with years of promotion by a company. 
Under clause 7 of the Bill a company may fail to qualify for a grant. Under clause 7 a firm which has spent less than $5,000 over 3 years is eligible for reimbursement in respect of further market promotion expenditure in the market, up to the sum of $100,000 per annum over each of 3 years. Yet a firm which has done a market survey which convinces that firm that it has to spend more than the Bill now allows- that is, it may require 6 years and a larger capital outlay than $5,000 in a total of 3 years- becomes ineligible for the premium payments on further market development. This is inequitable. As the Leader of the Country Party said, it is aimed at larger companies. It is another example of what one can only describe as a very foolish foible by the Government in respect of larger companies. 
It is commendable that the Government is making it possible for small companies to find new markets. But it is utterly stupid to deprive some of our largest companies of this benefit and, therefore, deprive Australia of the benefits which would come from genuine incentives given to larger companies to export. 
The operation of this Bill will also cause an injustice to other active Australian exporters. I have mentioned those who export capital equipment. We could also find the situation that there are 2 domestic competitors in Australia, one of whom has established a market overseas and now finds that the other, working on the basis of the pioneering work which he has done, now says: 'If he can sell his goods in that market I can sell mine. I will go there and I will compete with him.' What a foolish situation that is, because under the Bill it is a new market to the second company but it is no longer a new market to the first company and the first company gets no benefits from extending its activities and from its efforts to try to increase its volume of sales in the market which it has pioneered at considerable expense to itself and under the previous incentive program of the Liberal-Country Party Government. Under the Bill it is a new market to the new company, which goes there and seeks to take away from his Australian competitor what his Australian competitor had been developing and for which he is no longer compensated. This is an extreme disadvantage and injustice under the Bill. It is an absurd waste of Australia's resources if we have 2 companies competing with each other in this fashion in a market. 
Referring again to the obsession with big companies, one must say that it is inevitable that a great deal of our exporting will be done by big companies. Many of them are geared to this type of operation, and we as a country benefit by the earnings which they make. We benefit by the extended employment which they offer because of the fact that they are exporting more and producing more goods, and we benefit from the economies of scale, which produce generally lower prices in the home market. It is an inspiration to go to an export awards presentation and to learn of the small companies which are exporting in some of the most difficult markets, and therefore it is pleasing to see that in respect of at least new markets they will be compensated. Many of them will find it a major barrier not to be given an incentive to continue to work in and expand the market which they have so recently pioneered. 
In other words, all export is good for Australia, and it is detrimental to our economy for there to be provisions in this Bill which discriminate against large companies. Certain provisionsclauses 10, 15 and 16- do precisely this. By clause 10 and clause 16 the maximum benefit of $100,000 per annum is limited to a group of related firms. Abuses could have been coped with by clause 38, a clause which I commend. The result of the inter-action of clause 10 and clause 16 is that there is placed upon large companies or upon diverse companies a penalty. As we all know, one of the modern economic phenomena is the diverse corporate body, the group of companies which need not have very much in common with each other in terms of their production methods, in terms of the goods they make or in terms of their marketing techniques or areas. Yet though each division of the company might be relatively small and each division may have a healthy export market, it is to be penalised by the fact that it has the same group company ownership or some other relationship denned by the Bill. 
I repeat that if there have been groups of companies which have been guilty of abuses in respect of export incentives in the past, they should be exposed as such and they should be dealt with. I believe that the provisions which the Minister has inserted in this Bill can cope with that point, but to me it seems tragic that, at a time when some of our diverse companies have been diversifying in order to insulate themselves against the impacts of inflation and are endeavouring to export certain of their product lines, they are now to be penalised because of a provision which was probably aimed at multinationals on the theory that another wing of the multi-national corporation overseas could probably fulfil the commitment, or that the multinational would be able to find funds to finance its own exports. These are the kinds of problems which still cause Australia great concern. If a multi-national corporation overseas considers that without export incentives in Australia it can export from country A to country B rather than from Australia to country B, it will do so, and that is Australia's loss. We have gained nothing from the so-called penalty on the multi-national corporation. It is a loss of export earnings, employment opportunities, etc. in Australia. That is why I believe that the maximum benefit of $100,000 was set by the Government with multinational companies in mind. It will still disadvantage some multi-national companies, but it will certainly disadvantage many other companies in Australia. Many of the multi-nationals that it will disadvantage have operated with great credit in Australia, and they have earned this country a great deal of export income. Likewise, in foolishly discriminating against big business in general and multi-nationals in particular, the Government will harm many of those Australian companies which are entirely dependent upon their Australian operations to promote their overseas exports. I am not talking just of Australian multi-nationals; there are lots of Australian companies wholly operating within these shores which are wholly dependent upon the economies of scale they can get from exports, but still find that exports as such are marginally profitable enough for them not to operate without incentives. Many of those businesses may in fact close down. Many Australian companies are being damaged very severely at the moment. They have been damaged more severely than the multi-nationals. They need export opportunities. 
Clause 15 provides for a differential rate for expenditure incurred in exports in relation to government sponsored promotions and nongovernment sponsored new market development. Although one must praise government sponsorship, one must recognise that the best people to decide where the markets lie and how they should be developed, are certainly those in private enterprise- the people who put up the risk capital and the people who must exercise the initiative. To have differential rates according to whether it has a government blessing or not is indeed most unjust and impracticable in commercial terms. For example, at a government trade display, a large manufacturer of heavy equipment cannot necessarily be expected to incur the expense of participating in the trade display. He may participate by using photographs or by having a representative on the spot. If in fact he seeks to have his own promotions elsewhere in his own way, he is rewarded at a lower rate than others who attended the Commonwealth Government sponsored display. The existence of such a differential may even encourage a new type of abuse under the scheme. 
I deal next with the question of markets. In many large and economically complex industrial countries such as the United States of America, it is no longer realistic to define a market merely by reference to geographic boundaries. I understand full well the problem which any one would have in defining a market, but I would ask that when the Government reviews the operation of this scheme, as it has said it will, it will examine whether it is feasible to look at a country like the United States and call it a market. Merely because one has penetrated the West Coast, it does not mean that one will penetrate the South or the Mid West, let alone the East Coast. That could be seen as a separate market. 
Finally, on the question of costs, I would go one step beyond the criticism which the Leader of the Australian Country Party made of this scheme. While the previous scheme was reported to have cost $100m, $78m of this amount was in the form of tax rebates. The present scheme costing $27. 5m is all taxable. At a company tax rate of 47.5 per cent, the net cost to the Government of this scheme is only $ 14.5m. If it is assessed at the rate of 45 per cent company tax, the net cost to the Government is $15m. The cost of this scheme is therefore greatly reduced as compared with the previous scheme in terms of benefits to exporters and benefits to Australia. It is even more greatly reduced than the Minister said in his second reading speech. This, I believe, will reflect adversely on the Australian economy. 
I most strongly support this Bill. I am sure that the sentiments contained in the motion moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  are shared by all honourable members of this House, with the exception perhaps of the 2-year period specified, but in my opinion they are sentiments already adequately incorporated in the Bill. This Bill is a logical extension of a private member's Bill introduced by one of my predecessors as member for Balaclava, now  Mr Justice  Joske. It is most desirable that legislation of this sort be passed by the Federal Parliament because it must be uniform throughout Australia. This Bill deals primarily with divorce and other aspects of family law which impinge upon divorce. It establishes a family law council which is to advise the Attorney-General on the workings of the Act and by that means and by general public comment the Act may well be extended over the years to cover other aspects of family law. 
I believe that legislators and their constituents ought to consider the relationship of the state and the family most carefully when contemplating legislation which affects the family. From Herodotus, the first historian, to current historians and anthropologists much has been said regarding the great diversity in the size and the structure of the family and of the laws which govern the conduct within and without the family. Irrespective of these diversities, however, mankind has always placed enormous emphasis upon the family, however formed or governed. The family has been the basis of other social groupings. Aristotle saw the village as a union of families and the state as a union of villages. Aristotle believed that the originaal intention of the family was to supply man's everyday needs whereas the state had a broader and less intimate role in establishing beneficial conditions within which the family could function. The family unit produced stability for the overall society and the state helped to create circumstances in which families could prosper and be protected. 
State interference with the family was, however, of a very limited nature. This is a principle which all modern legislatures should well remember. The Canadian Prime Minister,  Mr Trudeau,  said a few years ago that the state has no place in the bedrooms of the nation. In saying that he was recognising this historic principle. Therefore we must ensure that the law governing the family enables its members to cope with their responsibilities to each other without the imposition by the state of a rigid set of moral imperatives which may be acceptable to many family members but which may be unacceptable in varying degrees to a great many others. In matters which affect the wellbeing of the state- the collection of families- majority views may need to be enforced. In laws governing families as single units the historic principle should be maintained and the state should interfere as little as possible with the freedom of action and responsibility within the family. This principle has so far prevailed throughout Western society even though the family has gradually transferred some of its responsibilities to the state. Thus, agricultural societies usually have large families providing social security and sharing in production and consumption in a subsistence economy. Industrialisation has diminished the economic significance to the state of both agriculture and the family. 
However, many of the social responsibilities of the family remain, particularly the rearing of children, although even here educational and other state responsibilities impinge upon the role of the family. Thus the size, structure, economic circumstances and attitudes of members of families have changed greatly with industrialisation. Increased education, affluence and equality of opportunity between the sexes have led to attitudes such as those which are reflected within this Bill and those of which it is a logical extension. The most important aspect of the Bill is that it makes men and women more equal before the law than they are at present. The legal supremacy of the male and the entrenched legal inferiority of the female are removed without removing the commitment of one party to honour obligations of maintenance towards the other or towards children where the courts' deem this to be appropriate. It is to be hoped that the family law council, the family law court and social institutions will accelerate this movement towards complete equality of opportunity and responsibility between the sexes. 
We are in a transitional stage and this partly explains the ever-increasing number of broken marriages. When both men and women understand the full implications of the equality of the sexes we may see a new era of more stable marriages. I cannot see that era coming for at least a generation, however, as the attitudes of men in particular- but some women also- will need to change before that eventuates. In any event, several other historical observations are useful before referring to the general principles incorporated in the BUI. When the church was more dominant than it is today and was engaged in its own battles with the state it refused to allow the state to interfere with the family. St Thomas Aquinas and other theologians believed that the family was more directly of divine origin than was the state and that the state would be exceeding its authority to interfere with the relationships between spouses and between parents and children. The church reserved this right to itself. As a result, there was no civil divorce in English law until 1857. Prior to that time the matter of divorce was the sole domain of the ecclesiastical courts unless one were important enough to the realm to be able to obtain divorce by special Act of Parliament 
Even after the secularisation of divorce, Parliament relied upon the ecclesiastically inspired notion of fault or matrimonial offence. It is sufficient for me to say at this stage of the debate that I have seen great hardship, indignity and injustice result from the notion of a matrimonial offence being necessary before a divorce could be granted. Blame is rarely exclusive to one party and, where it is, the other party should not be put to the pain, trouble and cost of obtaining evidence when desirous of a divorce. All that is important is that the couple are separated and the marriage is spiritually at an end. In this Bill it is irrelevant how the separation arose. The court is not to grant a decree, however, if there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. This is eminently sensible. If there is no prospect of the couple being reunited it is irrelevant for the purpose of divorce whether the separation is by consent or by desertion. It may, however, be relevant when the terms of maintenance or settlement of property are considered. I will comment on this matter at the Committee stage. It is sufficient to observe now that I believe that the Bill does pay adequate attention to the problems of maintenance and the settlement of property. 
More contentious than the fact of separation or its cause is the period of separation. The Bill provided originally for one year's separation prior to the actual hearing thus enabling the applicant to commence proceedings before the parties had been separated a year. This surely would have been too short a period for the parties to have decided that they really wished to live apart permanently, having earlier decided that they wished to live together permanently. The Senate amended that provision to make it a continuous period of 12 months before the filing of the application. It also inserted a provision expressly prohibiting the filing of an application before that continuous year of separation had expired. 
The Bill contains a sensible provision allowing a period of reconciliation of up to 3 months duration and permitting an aggregation of the separation period before and after this attempted reconciliation. This will enable the parties to attempt reconciliation once more, whereas the absence of such a provision would deter them from breaking the separation period lest their reconciliation fail and they have to start the period afresh. 
Although the Senate supported the 12 month period and its attendant provisions, there was a minority view that 2 years would have been a more appropriate period. Having read the reports of the Senate debates, I could find no strong reason advanced in support of the 2-year period. The report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs merely records that 2 of its members-  Senator Durack  and  Senator Chaney-  dissented from the majority recommendation on the grounds that one year is an inadequate period. They proposed 2 years instead. This is essentially a matter of individual experience and judgment. My experience as a barrister and friend of persons who have been separated leads me to the conclusion that separation is such a major step for a couple who have committed themselves to each other publicly that there is usually a serious breakdown of the marriage before separation actually occurs. 
I believe that, given the various conciliation and reconciliation provisions and the faculties for counselling available to the couple before commencing proceedings for divorce, a period of one year is appropriate. I do not believe that the public interest in the institution of marriage or in the individual lives of parties to a broken marriage would be served by any longer period. Bearing in mind the major nature of the step and the thought that almost always lies behind it, 12 months provides a sensible cooling off period to guard against hasty divorces. If only there were some way of reducing the number of hasty marriages, we might reduce the number of separations and divorces. That, however, is a matter for the family and not the state. Let any who deny this principle ponder how they would have the state act. 
Next there is the question of a divorce application being strongly opposed by one spouse, even though the parties have been separated for the requisite period and, in the opinion of the applicant- and probably of many observers- the marriage has broken down irretrievably. 
Some people say, with great sincerity and with considerable force, that no person should be divorced against his or her will. This was a matter which this Parliament faced squarely in 1 959. It is one of several reasons why this Bill is not as radical as certain vocal groups have claimed. Any social worker or lawyer with experience in divorce cases knows that many persons refuse to divorce their spouse even when the marriage is spiritually and physically dead. In pretending to support the institution of marriage such bars made a farce and a mockery of marriage. In addition, they caused misery to both parties and often led to a de facto union between the spouse who wanted the divorce and a person whom that spouse would have married had divorce been possible. The tensions created by such unions are well known as are the legal discriminations which then existed against de facto spouses and the children of de facto unions. Murders were even committed as a result of these frustrations, stemming from the refusal of one party to divorce the other. 
In this Bill, it is quite clear that once the court is satisfied that the parties have been separated for a continuous period of 12 months before the filing of the application, the court must grant a decree unless there is reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. The rather vague provisions of the 1959 Act have been removed but, in any case, I believe that a study of that Act only makes sense and legal certainty if one concludes that this Parliament, in expressly allowing divorce against the will of one spouse, considered that the individual life of each spouse, the prospects of a sound future marriage for at least one spouse, and the futility of maintaining a legal shell which at least one party wished to be freed from, outweighed the personal opposition of one person to divorce. 
Those holding strong religious convictions against divorce will consider this to be a harsh judgment by Parliament. But life in any society requires a constant balancing of rights and interests. It is the Parliament and the courts which must do this balancing. I recognise the embarrassment which such persons will experience in a divorce against their will but I can see no other way for the Parliament to act in accordance with its regard for the institution of marriage and the individual lives of most of those whose marriages are moribund and who wish to live a new life probably with a sounder marriage in view. All that the Parliament can do is to protect the interests of the opposing spouse in a material sense. I believe that this Bill empowers the court with sensible discretion to do this. The spiritual convictions of such persons must remain essentially their own concern. 
In the history of philosophy one of the most discussed matters has been whether marriage is a human institution to be regulated solely by custom and civil law, or a contract under the sanctions of natural law, or a religious sacrament signifying and imparting God's grace or a combination of the last 2 concepts. It is important for this Parliament to recognise that that range of views still prevails and to ensure that its legislation enables the maximum number of individuals possible to act in accordance with their own conscience. 
Thus, under this Bill, those who regard marriage as purely civil are catered for and those who do not recognise the civil decree absolute may still regard themselves as married in the eyes of God and may regard their spouse as transgressing the law of God if that spouse remarries. Most Australians in 1975 hold views in between these 2 extremes. The passage of this Bill will enable them to give greater effect to thenwishes in the event of their believing their marriage to have broken down irretrievably. How they interpret or rationalise their actions is not the concern of the Parliament. It is the duty of the Parliament to provide laws to enable the courts to protect the interests of children and certain spouses. For reasons I shall give in Committee, I believe that this Bill does enable the courts to protect those women who have lost income as a result of spending years at home raising children and contributing to the professional and financial development of the husband. 
I have endeavoured to trace the history of family-state relationships and the past record of legislation of this type. Concerning the tradition of minimal interference in the lives of the family, the Parliament has a public interest responsibility which takes 2 forms- that regarding the institution of marriage itself, an institution which is still most respected in our community, and that concerning the individual lives of the parties to the marriage. Those who have aroused the emotion of certain sections of our population and have urged persons to send standard form letters to members of Parliament claiming that the Bill makes a farce or a mockery of marriage have ignored the salient points that, to preserve in law the appearance of a marriage when the spiritual bond has long evaporated, is to make more of a farce or mockery of marriage than divorce could do. Moreover, I am convinced from the experience of welfare workers that it is far better for children to a broken marriage to be reasonably content with one parent and to see the other occasionally than to be tormented by the strain of living with 2 parents who find that they are not compatible. 
The organised opponents of this Bill have also ignored the statistical evidence that 75 per cent of persons who are divorced marry again and that very few people are divorced more than once. People do not tend to make a divorce a habit. On the contrary, they tend to raise the status of marriage by making a second successful marriage. They also imagine that because divorce procedures will be simpler, faster, less costly and more dignified, there will be an increase in the number of divorces. There may well be but that does not mean that there is an increase in the number of broken marriages as a result of this Bill. Merely because there are more parties to broken, farcical, mock marriages who will seek to end their legal union and make their legal and factual status conform does not mean that this Bill will contribute to more broken marriages. In this way, more people than dare now may realise and admit publicly that their marriage was a terrible mistake and may seek to be free to learn from that mistake and start again in a new marriage which they intend to be permanent. The people who say this Bill will lead to more broken marriages have little faith in the institution of marriage- the very institution they claim to be upholding. The Bill may lead to more divorces but it is unlikely to lead to more broken marriages. The causes of the increase in the number of broken marriages must be sought elsewhere. If the number of divorces increases because of the passage of this Bill, it will be, very largely, because an increased number of people will have welcomed a law which enables them to start again without the possibility of perjury, collusion or public notoriety. 
The opponents of this Bill have also failed to recognize that adultery and the other so-called matrimonial offences were more usually sympathetic of a breakdown of the marriage rather than causative. To the extent that they were causative, the genuine counselling and reconciliation provisions of this Bill will help save marriages where the couple have the appropriate maturity, willingness to compromise and desire to remain married. If they do not, Parliament can not oblige them to make their marriage a spiritual reality any more than it can legislate fidelity. In short, we will not preserve the institution of marriage by limiting the availability of divorce. This Bill pays commonsense regard to the interests of the individuals and the institution of marriage. Other matters relating to the family, such as those set out in the Liberal Party's platform, must await later action. I support the Bill as introduced into this House. 
I wish to draw attention to the inadequate state of government regulation regarding the rapidly growing sport of parachuting. I am led to do this because of the information I have received concerning the deaths of 2 highly experienced parachutists at Rylstone in New South Wales during the 1 3th. Australian parachute championships on 29 December 1974.I am satisfied that the information which I have received is accurate and I believe that these deaths could have been prevented had the Department of Transport insisted on set safety standards being observed throughout the championship. 
The authority of the Department of Transport is derived from the Air Navigation Orders designed by the Department of Civil Aviation. In Part 29 of those Orders, dated 3 September 1973, Order 8.1 provides that parachute operations shall be conducted under the supervision of an approved person and in accordance with the requirements of a parachuting manual which is specified by the approved person. In fact the approved person is an officer of the Department of Transport. The manual which is recognised by the Department of Transport is that of the Australian Parachute Federation. That manual enables the Federation to ground persons who do not observe certain safety standards. It seems to me most strange that the Department of Transport itself has not the actual power to ground such persons. But my grievance today is not with the deficiencies in the Department of Transport's regulations so much as with the failure of the departmental officer to ensure that the manual is enforced, even if the enforcement agency is not the Department but the Australian Parachute Federation. 
My information from skilled parachutists is that the manual of the Federation is comprehensive and that if it were enforced it would be sufficient to prevent accidents. As it is, however, 9 Australian parachutists died in 1974. Without wishing to embarrass the relatives of the deceased I believe it responsible to say that fellow competitors of the deceased at the Australian championships in December believe that the deaths were due to an excessive consumption of alcohol by the deceased and others immediately prior to the jumps by the deceased. Apart from the fact that such conduct is foolish in the extreme it is also contrary to provisions in the manual approved by the Department of Transport. The manual of the Australian Parachute Federation contains the following operational regulations: 5.3.19 No alcoholic liquids shall be in evidence on the drop zone or emplaning area while parachuting operations are in progress. 
Regulation 5.3.20 prescribes: 
No person shall make a parachute descent while affected by drugs, alcohol or fatigue. A person who has consumed alcohol in the preceding 12 hours shall be considered to be affected by alcohol. 
The relationship between these manual provisions and the Department of Transport is not merely created by the air navigation orders but is reinforced by the statement of functions of the Department of Transport itself. There the functions of the air transport group are expressly related to safety. They certainly extend to the aircraft which fly the parachutists, even if they are not yet extensive enough to cover parachute drops. Yet, despite this responsibility, we have a situation in which these operational regulations were breached at the biggest parachuting competition in Australia in the presence of an officer from the Department of Transport. 
The major incident report of the Australian Parachute Federation in relation to the double fatality of 29 December 1974 records the grim facts. Both deceased were experienced jumpers. Both in fact had made 370 jumps. They left the aircraft at approximately 5000 feet and planned to delay 15 seconds in opening their parachutes. Instead, they descended in 30 seconds without opening their parachutes at all. The report reveals that there was a full moon and the weather was clear. These were ideal conditions for jumping. It also records that the regulations were broken by all who went on the sortie. Three men jumped, one opened his parachute almost as soon as he left the aircraft. The others did not open their parachutes at all. The report graphically records: 
The bodies were found about 2 hours after the jump. They were close together and ground impressions indicated they were still linked in a stable star on impact. No attempt appears to have been made by either jumper to activate any parachutes. Alcohol played the biggest part in this incident. It appears that they were around twice the legal limit on blood alcohol level at the time of the jump. 
The report adds that there were other competitors who knew the jump was to take place and knew of the condition of the jumpers but who made no attempt to stop the sortie. One of the deceased was not even wearing a jumpsuit and wore only party shoes to protect his feet. Moreover, the same man had broken his ankle only 7 weeks before and had it prematurely taken out of plaster. The jump took place at 1.45 a.m. 
-Yes, but unlike the honourable member who interjected they were not wearing red coats. The competition continued until lunch time when it was cancelled for all competitors for the remainder of the day. I am informed that the  President  of the Australian Parachute Federation made it clear that the Federation could not enforce regulations regarding the intake of alcohol. The  President  deplored the breach of regulations but could not protect people from themselves. Therefore, the Department of Transport must do it for the Federation. 
If all this were not enough, two other facts add to the concern which responsible lovers of this sport feel. The night before the fatalities the same pilot from whose plane the deceased jumped flew his aircraft from an airstrip lit only by the headlights of one car. Some competitors tried to stop the aircraft taking off, especially when they realised that those on board had been consuming alcohol. The aircraft carried out a number of low passes below 100 feet directly over the camping area, sometimes without aircraft lights. No action was taken to stop those concerned in this spree from continuing in the competition. On the night of the fatalities, the same pilot flew over the camping area at approximately 50 feet while the one surviving parachutist was still descending over the same area. Again, no action appears to have been taken by the Department of Transport against the pilot. 
One of the deceased had a wife and 2 children at the camping site and the enforcement of the regulations would have protected them as well as the deceased. My information is that the Victorian Relative Work Championships held 10 days before the fatalities had a similar pattern of conduct by some of the competitors. I understand that some competitors were openly drinking alcohol and smoking marihuana during the competition. The same pattern of conduct continued 10 days later in the Australian Championships and still no action was taken by the Department of Transport. Indeed, during the Australian Championships it was announced by the organisers over the public address system that the regulation requiring that no alcohol was to be consumed 12 hours before a descent would be reduced to 8 hours. My information is that even this reduced limit was not observed. Two men died as a result. 
I am also informed that other regulations were varied or breached, including those relating to a low opening height after a free fall. It seems doubtful that permission was received from the Department of Transport to vary these regulations. The Australian Parachute Federation has failed to enforce its own regulations. One reason, of course, is the difficulty of fellow competitors to enforce regulations against others who are their friends and with whom they wish to remain popular. I believe that the Department of Transport has been most remiss in not insisting on the enforcement of these regulations. I trust that the Minister for Transport will examine and remedy this serious defect. 
I do not intend to devote very much of my speech to chasing the red herring about the causes of inflation. Of course, as the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has said, there has been a pattern in this country over the last 2 years similar to the pattern which may be seen in overseas industrial countries regarding the actual rate of inflation, but the causes of inflation are vastly different. It has been said ad nauseam in this House that the causes of inflation in Australia stem more from domestic management or mismanagement of a different kind than the causes of inflation overseasthe essential difference being the fact that we have bountiful resources and the fact that we have a 70 per cent self sufficiency in oil. How long that position will continue is another matter for another debate. In fact, during this period of crisis- the world inflationary situation- we have been cushioned or should have been cushioned from the ramifications of the world trading patterns. However, as a result of the fundamental failure of the Government to understand the workings of the private sector, we now have a similar problem on our hands. Statistically it looks the same, but in terms of the cause it is rather different. 
Before I continue in that vein and lest I be accused of trotting out old economic cliches, let me refer to some of the statistics again. I do not wish to be thought of as having twisted any statistics. I take the point made by the Deputy Prime Minister that it is not quite sufficient to look at the figures for one year. As has been mentioned, the latest figures available to us are those for the September quarter of 1974. The figures for capital expenditure by private business in Australia, as published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, show the capital expenditure by the type of asset in respect of new buildings and structures. In the September quarter of 1971 $347. lm was expended on new buildings and structures. In September 1972 there was a slump because of the economic situation following, it must be said, the 1971 Budget. The slump was to $2 18.2m. The September 1973 figure of $305. 9m represented an increase of 9 per cent, which was slightly ahead of the rate of inflation. The expenditure in September 1974 was $367.7m, which represented a 20 per cent increase, which would do no better than keep pace with the rate of inflation. 
So in that period, which covers the period since the Labor Government came to office, there has been a decline in real terms in the capital expenditure of private business in Australia. That is the situation in respect of new buildings and structures. Much the same comments may be made in respect of new capital equipment. In the September quarter of 1971 $502.7m was expended. In the September quarter of 1974 $559.9m was expended and this represented an increase of 23.4 per cent on the expenditure for the September quarter of 1973, but in fact in money terms it was only slightly higher than the expenditure in the September quarter of 1971. One must make the same comment that we are doing well if we are in fact standing still, but we are not expanding our industry. The capital expenditure for all industries shows a similar pattern. The figures for the September quarter of 1974 show an increase of 22.1 per cent over the figure for the September quarter of 1973, but that again would only keep pace with inflation. There was no real expansion. Those figures have been canvassed and partly rejected by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns). 
I think it is useful to look quickly at some particular industries. We know that the textile and clothing industries were affected not by the world situation, but by the policies of this Government. The textile and clothing situation is such that in the September quarter 1974 there was an increase in investment of 2.7 per cent over the September quarter 1973. That is a loss in real terms, and for the industry merely to maintain its position it would have had to spend a great deal more than that. But it is not just the textile and clothing industry which is affected. The Government cannot even rejoice at the figures relating to the engineering industry. We find that $34.6m was expended in the September quarter of 1972, $39m in the September quarter of 1973 and in September 1974 there was what looks to be an astronomical jump to $60.5m. But the engineering industry at this moment is feeling the transfer of the recession. The clothing industry, the footwear industry, the textiles industry and other industries have now reached the bottom. They either go right under now, or they manage to survive in their somewhat truncated form. For some months the engineering industry has had a policy of not replacing people, but information which one is able to obtain indicates that the metals and engineering industry will be retrenching people. One cannot even take comfort from the apparent increase in the investment figures for that industry, and I mention them merely because they look favourable to the Government on the latest investment figures. When the  Deputy  Prime Minister talks about the liquidity problem having been solved, he is certainly not even keeping up to date with the latest surveys published by his former Department, the Department of Overseas Trade, which indicate great pessimism among the notoriously optimistic people in the manufacturing sector. 
If we look at the extracting, refining and foundry areas, we see a similar pattern. We see, as the  Deputy  Prime Minister rightly said, that in 1973 there was in fact a downturn. In the September quarter of 1972, $53.3m was expended on investment; in the September quarter of 1973 the figure was $38m and in the September quarter of 1974 it was $55.8m. From these figures it looks as though there was an upswing but if one remembers that there was a low base in 1973 and that $53.3m is not very different from $55. 8m, one sees that there has been a loss in the extracting, refining and foundry industries in the 2 years of office of the present Government. I would have thought that this would point to a very serious, cautionary note for the Government. The December survey of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia and the Bank of New South Wales reveals that 6 1 per cent of manufacturers surveyed said that they would be investing a much lower proportion of funds in real terms than they had previously done. This is the greatest number of persons reflecting this gloomy outlook that has ever been recorded since the surveys began in 1 960. 
There is an investment crisis and it is beside the point to talk of overseas causes. Much of it, as these figures reveal, can be traced to the domestic mismanagement of this Government. One sees that there has been some recognition of this crisis by the Government when one remembers its recent reversals of its policies and its newfound respect for the private sector. But the Government has only partially recognised this crisis, especially in respect of the liquidity problems to which the  Deputy  Prime Minister referred. He said that there is now more liquidity around than previously. But it was not very long ago- last November in fact- that his predecessor told us that there was not a liquidity problem; he was not interested in postponing the quarterly tax payments because there was no liquidity problem. We all knew that there was one. We know the sensitive nature of that sort of mechanism. 
But what is important is the stop-go mentality of this Government. One can remember that when the present Government was in Opposition it accused the Menzies' Government of stop-go economics. But we have a more dramatic form of stop-go economics than has ever been seen in Australia's history. Industry and the community generally will take a lot of convincing that Labor really understands the workings of industry, the role of investment, which is what this debate is all about, and the role of profits. The structure of our economy is such that the standard of living increases when we have real economic growth. I do not mean growth for growth's sake, but growth which is balanced with social policies. Labor has acted on the myth that private investment is inexhaustible and that industry can be taxed indefinitely and abused constantly yet go on providing money for the Government's public spending programs. Labor is killing the goose that laid the golden egg. This is really the crisis which we now have. Private industry simply does not trust Labor to understand the workings of the private sector or to manage the economy. That is why it will not invest. 
I shall be very brief as the issues in this matter have been raised and dealt with thoroughly during the second reading debate. I wish to speak in this debate because I have expressed on many occasions my strong belief in the amalgamations of both unions and employer organisations. I think one point which has been overlooked in the debate on this Bill is that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act applies equally to employer organisations and to trade unions. I most strongly support the concept of amalgamation of both trade unions and employer organisations. I believe that the Act should be amended to make amalgamations easier. In doing so, however, the rights of members of unions and employer organisations must be fully protected. The vote of such members must be free from intimidation and they must be based upon maximum information both for and against the merger. Proposed section 158L does not provide such protection. 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the reasons advanced by him for moving it. That amendment does provide adequate protection for the rank and file members to receive ballot papers and information regarding the amalgamation proposals and to vote by secret postal ballot if they choose to do so. The Bill provides that the union rules must provide for an absentee vote. Anyone requesting an absentee vote will be thought by the union officials to be thinking along rather different lines from the recommendations of the union officials. 
That leaves room for intimidation. We would be most naive if we were to leave room for intimidation and most naive if we were to believe that intimidation would not be used in the future as it has been used in the past, not merely in Australia but in the trade union movement in other Westernstyle democracies. This Bill places undue power in the hands of the committee of management of the unions. It is from such committees or factions of such committees that intimidation might come. 
Regarding proposed section 158M, it is simply not sufficient for the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  to say that the Commonwealth Electoral Office is obliged to dispatch ballot papers to all members. The Bill does not say so. The Australian Industrial Court and the High Court of Australia would not have regard to what the Minister says but would have regard to what the Act says and the Bill currently before us does not say what the Minister said by way of an interjection in answer to the honourable member for Wannon. I therefore oppose proposed section 158M as it stands. I find the amendment to be more in keeping with the interests of the members of registered organisations than the proposed section which it seeks to replace. In my view, however, the amendment to proposed section 158M would not be necessary if proposed section 158L were not defective, but that proposed section 158L is defective in the way in which the honourable member for Wannon has said it is defective is borne out by the Minister's own comments in the debate of 31 July 1974 as reported at page 896 of Hansard of that date. The Minister said: 
The honourable gentleman is proposing to delete from the Bill the very safeguards about which he pretends to be so concerned. I refer to the safeguards which are written into the Bill to ensure that where the rules of a union do not provide for a compulsory postal ballot of all members, then the members of that union will have the right to petition the Registrar for a ballot to be conducted by the Registrar or by the Chief Electoral Officer in accordance with the traditional way in which the Chief Electoral Officer has always conducted the ballots. 
A little further on the Minister went on to amplify that remark. He said: 
The only union, I repeat, which does not have provision in its rules for postal ballots and for a ballot paper to be posted to every single member is the AMWU. It is a union with 160 000 members. All that is needed to be obtained out of the 1 60 000 members is a paltry 2S0 signatures which is provided for in the Bill. When those 2S0 signatures have been obtained all of the 160 000 members of that union will be supplied with ballot papers direct from the Chief Electoral Officer and the ballot will be conducted in exactly the same way as any other ballot conducted by the Chief Electoral Officer for union elections. 
My question is: Why bother to force 250 members to identify themselves and lay themselves open to intimidation when in fact it would be simple, it would be equitable and it would be most just and fair to send all members of the union a ballot paper together with a simple statement for and against the proposed merger so that they could, if they wished, vote in accordance with their own wishes? I do not understand really why that very straightforward policy has not been adopted. 
My friend the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  has raised a number of points to which I think I should refer.  His  partial answer to the last question I have raised was that there would be an interference with the ballot papers in the postal service. Are we to shirk from passing a law involving the posting of ballot papers to all union members merely because there has been a criminal activity, that is, an interference with the mails? Clear evidence of the intimidation to which I have referred is to be found in the statement by the honourable member for Burke. Imagine how bad that intimidation would be if the persons doing the intimidating were to avail themselves of the existing privisions of the Bill. Imagine how bad it would be for the 250 members who sought to have a ballot conducted under the supervision of the Chief Electoral Officer. 
I wish to refer to another matter raised by the honourable member for Burke, that is, proposed section 158G, which relates to the publication of the scheme for amalgamation. The honourable member omitted to say that the only case which goes in the journals and in the metropolitan newspapers under that provision is the case for the amalgamation. The case against the amalgamation is not presented. So it is very difficult for those who actually oppose it and actually can prepare a case against it to present their views. It would not be difficult for them to go to the Chief Electoral Officer and ask him, as in the case of a referendum, to seek either a yes or no answer and to say: 'This is the view we have. We would like our view sent with the ballot paper to other people'. I cannot understand why the amalgamation proposals do not advocate something along those lines. 
In conclusion I would like to refer to another matter raised by the honourable member for Burke. It is a matter on which I am in agreement with him and at some variance with my colleagues. The honourable member said that a 30 per cent vote is a good result for a trade union. It is a good result. It is a very good result for a registered employer organisation, too, I might say. I do not doubt that an employer organisation or a trade union is doing very well when it gets a 30 per cent return. As I have said, I know that this is at variance with the views of some of my colleagues, but I hope that they will respect my practical experience on these matters. In the interests of both the members of registered organisations and the public, I believe that the existing Act is preferable to the Bill. If the Minister had drawn his Bill in the spirit of the amendments to proposed section 158L I would have expected a better reception for the Bill. As it stands, however, I oppose the Bill and, for the reasons I have given, support the position of the honourable member for Wannon. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I wish to speak on a matter relating to the Grievance Debate of last Thursday, 13 February, to which the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  replied on 18 February. The Minister then expressed concern that I did not consult his Department before making my comments. He also said that I used some 'pretty strong language about the condition of the people concerned'. Then he resorted to the ploy of a man whose defence is weak and he said that I should check my facts by talking to his Department.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will recall that the matter concerned fatalities arising out of a parachute jump in the Australian parachute championships. The fact that I am a new member is quite irrelevant. I am thorough and I always check my facts. I do not make allegations without having done so. I can assure honourable members that I will not do anything under parliamentary privilege without having verified my facts very carefully. If the Minister showed the same regard for the facts himself he might be less controversial and more effective. 
When I used the strong language to which the Minister referred I was quoting from the major incident report of the Australian Parachute Federation, and one cannot get more than factual than that. One can hardly check one's sources more carefully than that. Moreover the Minister's own statement, as recorded in Hansard of 18 February on pages 410 to 412, confirms the breaches of regulations alleged by me. The Minister expressly said: 
AH 3 parachutists had consumed alcohol shortly before boarding the aircraft to make a descent. 
I quote further from page 410. The Minister said: 
The facts indicate that the night operation in question was conducted in contravention of both the Air Navigation Regulations and the Air Navigation Orders as well as APF regulations. 
The Minister then tried to exonerate the Department by saying that direct supervision of day to day activities of parachutists has been left in the hands of the APF. He then said: 
The Department has always found the Federation to be a responsible body, and this is borne out by its actions following this accident. 
The record of the APF following the tragedy is interesting. The Minister tabled a letter from the APF to all safety officers of the Federation. The Minister described the letter as hard hitting. That letter confirms the essence of my allegations and the fact that the APF finds it most difficult to enforce the regulations which the Department has delegated to it. To prove my point let me read some paragraphs of that letter. The entire letter appears at page 412 of Hansard of 18 February. It states: 
To Safety Officers 
Alcohol has surfaced as a real problem on the  DZ 
The DZ is the drop zone. The letter goes on: 
The situation occurred at the Nationals where people were quite prepared to have a few cans when jumping had only been stopped for a few hours. They were quite prepared to jump again had the conditions settled enough for competition jumps to continue. 
Drinking and jumping is not a new occurrence, but the scale of drinking and the number of people taking part at this Nationals is. Also the number of supposedly responsible people who took to the can this time gives cause for concern. 
I intend to tackle this problem along with the one of smoking' and jumping. 
What I said in my speech in the grievance debate was that that there had been a pattern of conduct, of which jumpers knew, upon which no action was taken until 2 fatalities occurred. The letter continued: 
Heavy penalties will be invoked on persons violating the  regulatons  on mixing drinking and smoking with jumping. 
On the smoking subject a word of caution. Police in NSW N.S.W. Queensland believe smoking is established amongst the jumpers. I was surprised we didn't have a visit from the N.S.W. Police drug squad. 
As a result of the Rylestone fatalities, the following people are under suspension of rating and will be ruled on by a N.S.W. Discipline Board on 1 February 1975. 
The letter goes on to mention who those persons were, but I see no point in repeating their names now. 
It is important to note that the very letter which the Minister quoted shows that what I had said in the grievance debate was quite factual and that the warning of this established pattern of conduct had not been heeded by the Federation until the fatalities occurred. Yet the Minister says that his Department takes comfort from the fact that it acted subsequent to the fatalities. It was really only as a result of the fatalities that action was taken. In fact, the letter speaks for itself. One can see that it is a letter of a conscientious but powerless man pleading for cooperation from the jumpers. Had the fatalities not occurred it is reasonable to assume that no action would have been taken by the Department or the APF. 
The Minister's own statement confirms that the pilot who flew the plane from which the men who were killed jumped had made a similar midnight flight 48 hours prior to the accident. All the persons at the site were able to know, and surely most must have known, that there had been this midnight flight 48 hours before the fatalities occurred, because the pilot was buzzing the camping area in which they were staying. The departmental officer- himself a parachutist- was staying at the camping area but he took no action to ground the pilot, nor did the Federation take any action to ground the pilot. It is important to note that the Department has the power to ground the pilot as a pilot, but the Federation has the power to ground him only as a parachutist. The Minister told us that the pilot's licence has now been suspended, but apparently the Department took no action and, according to the Minister, the Department did not know about that earlier flight until 3 February. Yet there was a departmental officer at the competition, and other persons at the competition most certainly knew about it. It is hard to see how the departmental officer did not know. 
The Minister is condemned by his own statement, and he cannot escape responsibility by casting aspersions against new members of the Parliament. The parachutists who drew the facts to my attention believed that the matter would be covered up if they or I went privately to the Department. The departmental officer has, in my opinion, covered it up. I understand that the Minister has now received letters from parachutists who were at the competition confirming the substance of my allegations. Since making my speech in the grievance debate I have been informed by other persons that the facts which I alleged are in fact correct. The Vice-President of the Federation in the 'Age' of 14 February has also confirmed that that is so. The Federation cannot discipline its members and it is necessary to establish regulations by some other machinery for continuous enforcement. During the grievance debate I asked the Minister to examine and remedy this serious defect, and I now ask him again to do this. 
-I think one must respond to the suggestion of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  that we are in some way sycophants of the stock exchanges. He then went on to make the very point of what we are about. We are the ones who protested about the fact that those who are most concerned in the most practical way- we think in particular of the stock exchanges- have not been given sufficient time to put final submissions to the Government. So, there is little option but for those of us who speak on this side of the House to do it for them. We know that certain Government backbenchers have been given information by stock exchanges, and for the first time that has been acknowledged. This ought to be before the Government because it is a matter for consideration by the Government. 
Referring to clause 20, to which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  drew attention, he was correct in saying that subclause (2) (c) is one of the widest provisions that one could ever imagine. Is there not a group of Government backbenchers who are alarmed about the future of the institution of Parliament to which they belong? It seems to me to be most important that if this is to be the pattern of Government legislation Parliament will be very much bypassed. In reply to the debate on clauses 13 to 15 the Attorney-General did say that the 
Commission that is being created is not a socialist monster. Anyone who read clause 20 (2) (c) in conjunction with the Australian Labor Parry's platform could be forgiven for doubting the Attorney-General's assurances, but at the very least if one reads the Bill in its entirety one finds that the Commission is an academic bureaucratic monster. When one reads clause 20 (2) (f) one really does wonder whether the Commission will not be in competition with another bureaucratic monster, namely, the Australian Industry Development Corporation. I think I should read paragraph  (f). 
I do not support another one being established in competition with it. 
I am not speaking in opposition to the AIDC, but I certainly am speaking in opposition to clause 20 (2) (f) which reads:  develop and facilitate the opportunities for persons to participate in the ownership and control of Australian industry by means of collective investment schemes and improve the performance and efficiency of such schemes; 
It seems far beyond the purpose of this legislation to have this Commission, with the wide powers given under clause 20, involved in developing opportunities for persons to participate in the ownership and control of Australian industry. There I would commend some of the recommendations from the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges because it is important that the Commission should be confined to facilitating'; it certainly should not operate in the very broad sense of 'developing'. 
 Clause 21, which is relevant to my references to this quite possibly becoming an academic area, relates to the Governor-General's power of appointment of persons to the Commission. It confines the Governor-General to appointing persons having requisite experience in or knowledge of industry, commerce, economics, law or public adminstration. It is the concern of those who are practitioners in this area that these be added together or that these be conjunctive and that the commissioners must have both practical experience and the academic qualifications which are required by clause 21. It would not be difficult for the Government to substitute in clause 21 (3) the word 'and' for the word 'or'. After all, we are imposing on members of the Commission inordinate powers. Even if the Bill were worded more precisely these would be very great responsibilities, and one would hope that we would put them in the hands of  persons who  were qualified by practice as well as by academic qualifications to handle the positions.. I have no further comments on these clauses of the Bill. 
-Perhaps I could follow up the point which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  made. Taking the spirit of the comments just made by the Attorney-General I might say that my comments will be quite brief but they are directed to the same area. To some extent the criticisms that I was about to make have been diminished by the assurances of the Attorney-General that at least he will examine the area of appeal. As it stands without an appeal clauses 59 and 60 are farreaching. I will not make any additional comments to those made by the honourable member for Moreton about clause 60. But clause 59, when taken into conjunction with other clauses in this Bill, creates a breadth of power which is really quite startling. I think one must say that. 
We have already referred to clause 20. There is no need to repeat it except to say that clause 20 related to the functions and duties of the Commission. We did remark, in dealing with clause 20, how broad those functions were in their description. We find similar breadth in respect of clause 59- the power of the Commission to require amendments to constituent documents of registered stock exchanges. The breadth of power, for example, is indicated in clause 59(1) which, in the first 3 lines, states: 
Where the Commission, after making inquiries and investigations as mentioned in section 58, is of the opinion that it is desirable that a change be made in the constituent documents of a registered stock exchange, the Commission may . . . 
It goes on to set out the powers of the Commission. I simply ask the Attorney-General: Why was it not possible in framing the objects of this legislation to set out criteria which were appropriate to exercise the Commission's discretion under clause 59? It says merely that it is 'desirable '. My point simply is that in framing this legislation was it not possible to set out criteria whereby it was determined when it was desirable. As I say, the problem is partly overcome if, indeed, there is an administrative appeal. If there is not, then that power is indeed very wide. It may not be abused but there is no appeal to ensure that it will not be abused. If one examines clause 59 (3) one sees a similar breadth- again I read only part of the clause- which gives the Commission power to have regard to the rules of the Commission and states:  . . may make provision for and in relation to any matter relating to the constitution of the stock exchange or the activities or conduct of the stock exchange or of its members or of other persons who are permitted to trade in securities on the stock market maintained or provided by the stock exchange. . . . 
The breadth of that again is great when one reads it in conjuction with clause 283, to which I will not refer when we come to it but which specifically refers to the rules of the Commission and says: 
Subject to this section, the Commission may make rules, not inconsistent with this Act or the regulations - 
One should pause there to say that as the proposed Act is so broad the scope of the Commission is great indeed- for or in relation to- 
any matter in respect of which the Commission is permitted by sub-section 59 (3) to make rules; 
As I have said, clause 59 (3) is so broad that it has a very full run indeed. Clause 284 relates to regulations. Again I mention this simply because it is all part of the package of powers which the Commission is to have under the Bill. Clause 284 reads: 
The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters that are required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed or are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving, effect to this Act . . . 
It goes on to deal with particular provisions. I just mention this on the basis that unless there is, and there certainly was not when we had to consider this Bill, adequate appeal procedure, then the powers are so broad as to suggest that the Government did not have a clear idea of what it intended this Commission to do. It was giving the Commission inordinate powers. As a safeguard perhaps the Government made clause 59 (4) very broad so that by regulation the rules of the Commission might be contained in some way. At the same time it was basically leaving everyone without the power of appeal other than the possible disallowance of regulations by the Senate, and as we all know the present situation in which . the Opposition has control over the Senate does not always obtain. I think I have made my point sufficiently without amplifying it except to say that there is a package of power which has caused alarm. The absence of powers of review again has caused alarm. One would have thought that the Government could have been more specific in its intention and could have set out the criteria in clause 59 (1). It certainly should have left more power with this Parliament to amend by legislation rather than to have amendment by regulation. 
-I wish to speak to clause 70, which relates to the application for the grant of a licence. I have just a simple question regarding clause 70 (2) (b). I ask the Attorney-General whether the Commission could be given a discretion. I know that we have spoken about this Bill containing too much in the way of granting discretions, but here we have a very strict rule regarding a 30-day period before the expiration of the last previous licence of the kind referred to. I wonder whether in the case of genuine error there would not be room for a discretion in the hands of the Commission. I make no further point than that. 
In respect of clause 71, the use of the term applicant'- I am thinking particularly of clause 71(1) (b)- ignores the fact that a large number " of dealers are in partnership. I think that some cognisance should be taken of the assets of the whole partnership. There are many young people, for example, who simply could not enter into a partnership if they had to comply strictly with clause 71.1 think that is an important point to be noted. 
-I refer to clause 83 in the same spirit as the comments that I made on the last 2 clauses. This refers to the register to be maintained by a person who is the holder of a licence. In practice, of course, most persons are involved in a partnership. Therefore clause 83-1 think particularly of clause 83 (4)- is of practical value only if the partnership as a whole, rather than individual members of the partnership, holds the licence. So I just commend to the Attorney-General the idea that in respect of clause 83 (4) he could give attention to the thought that while we in the Opposition do not oppose the idea of the register we do think there is value in recognising that the partnership as a whole has an interest that could be recorded in the register and that because of fluctuations in the market a particular partner's share will vary literally daily. If account could be taken of this, we would be quite happy with the provision. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 88 to 104- by leave- taken together. 
I refer to clause 90. 1 do not wish to do other than to say that this clause, on the face of it, raises some perplexing problems but there may be a simple answer to them. I do not wish to do anything other than to bring the Attorney-General's attention to the fact that in practice the clause may be more difficult to implement than appears on the surface. I think in particular of clause 90 (2) (a) (i). It provides a 3-day period before which the dealer will deposit certain documents referred to in that clause. I ask the AttorneyGeneral: What is the objection to deposit of securities for loan if the client in fact gives permission? I see no reason why there should be a 3-day period. There may be some reason but it is not apparent. In sub-clause (3) again there is almost the opposite situation where there is almost a 7-day period of grace for the dealer. I wonder why it is not proper for the documents to be withdrawn if in fact the deposit is made immediately from funds which are paid from the client into the general account. I make no further point than that. 
I agree with what the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has just said. I merely say that where the client comes within the provisions of the sub-clause I just do not see why he should have the 3-day period involved. It seems an anomaly. I agree with what the Attorney-General said. I point out that where the client has given permission a period of 3 days seems to me to be unnecessary. 
-By the inclusion of clause 115 in the Bill the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Enderby)  has shown that he understands the dilemma. I am sure that this matter will be debated in the Senate. I wish to agree with the remarks made by my friend, the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard).  Beyond that it is sufficient to say that the matter has been open for debate. I am sure that it will be debated more fully in the Senate. 
Clause 116 deals with the question of the dealer not being able to act as an underwriter in certain circumstances. I wonder why that clause does not apply to all of those people who are circumscribed by the definition of 'dealer' in clause 3. I simply ask the question. If the AttorneyGeneral is not in a position to answer it now it may be answered in the Senate. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 118. 
The Trade Practices Act 1974 applies in relation to, and in relation to the making or entering into of, any contract, arrangement or understanding having the purpose or effect of fixing or controlling, or providing for the fixing or controlling of, the fees or charges for, or any discounts, allowances or rebates in relation to, any goods or services supplied or to be supplied by such of the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding as are the holders of dealers licences, or by any of them, in the course of carrying on a business of dealing in securities to persons not being parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding and so applies as if every such holder of a dealers licence were a corporate within the meaning of that Act. 
I refer to clause 1 19 merely for the purpose of drawing the attention of the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to the submission of the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges of which he and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  are aware. Clause 1 19 is a provision which refers to stock market manipulation. The Association has simply said that this clause ought to have regard to the provision in section 71(2) of the New South Wales Securities Industry Act. I know that the Attorney-General has the submission before him and I know that he cannot in any political sense accept the suggested amendment tonight, but I do suggest that he give regard to it when he considers this Bill prior to its going to the Senate. 
I refer also to clause 123, which is a very important clause. I am sure that my colleagues will speak to it. Clause 123 relates to the prohibition of dealings in securities by insiders. I would simply refer the Attorney-General again to the publication to which the honourable member for Adelaide has referred and which was prepared by Louis Loss. It is a publication that was printed by the Government Printer under the auspices of the previous Attorney-General. I refer in particular to paragraph (d) at page 22, which expressly relates to clause 123 of this Bill. I think that I should read paragraph (d) for the purpose of illustrating the kind of problem that arises under clause 123. It reads: 
Suppose that the loan officer of a bank discovers that a corporate applicant for a loan is in a bad way. Should he inform his colleagues in the bank's trust department, so that the shares of that corporation may be sold out of the trust accounts? If he does, is not the bank culpably acting on inside information? If he does not, might the bank in its capacity as trustee be guilty of a breach of trust? Many American banks have sought a way out of this dilemma by creating intracorporate 'Chinese walls' between their loan and trust departments. 
-Thank you. Pararaph (d) continues: 
But is it clear that the courts would not attribute to the corporation as an entity the information obtained by its loan officer? About the only thing that is clear in the United States is that a trustee's duties under the law of trusts can hardly require him to commit a violation of federal law. The Code intentionally leaves for further judicial development the question of the efficacy of 'Chinese walls'. 
I have simply drawn that matter to the AttorneyGeneral's notice. It is unrealistic to expect the Attorney-General to have particular regard for that now, but I do hope that by the time the Bill reaches the Senate he will have done so. 
-The Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  in answering the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  has shown that there is great validity in the general criticisms levelled by the honourable member for Wannon. The Minister made what he called a tip when he said that there will be a small decline in raw figures in the February unemployment figures. He also implied that there will be an increase in the seasonally adjusted figures. 
The Minister accused the Opposition of switching from raw figures to seasonally adjusted figures as it suits its purposes. It is important to note that when there is a high level of unemployment seasonally adjusted figures have limited validity. When there is a high level of unemployment there is a great distortion in the actual method of calculating seasonally adjusted figures. Therefore, let us deal with this matter on the basis of raw figures. Let us deal with what the Minister has said, namely, that there will be a small decline in raw figures. He said that the small decline would still represent the greatest decline for 10 months. Of course, 10 months goes back to last April and excludes and ignores the fact that traditionally there is a lower level of unemployment in February than at any other time of the year because those persons who had registered as a result of leaving school have since been placed in employment, to acquire newer skills in areas which are not catered for by any adult apprenticeship programs or other adult training programs. Therefore, school leavers traditionally are absorbed rather faster than others who are unemployed. This simply means that the unemployment problem, to which the honourable member for Wannon has referred in six or seven other debates of this nature, continues to be a major problem and it more than justifies the foreshadowed motion of the honourable member that during the recess of this Parliament the matter be examined by a select committee of the House. 
The Minister studiously ignored the criticisms made by the honourable member for Wannon regarding the income maintenance scheme. The honourable member pointed out some of the inequities that arise under this scheme. He pointed out that the scheme was introduced as a result of the 25 per cent across the board tariff cuts. He also pointed out that sometimes it is difficult to distinguish between the causes of retrenchments. General Government economic policies have contributed to many retrenchments. Some are bound up directly with the tariff cuts, some indirectly. But it is only those which are directly connected with tariff cuts to which the income maintenance scheme applies. So people who lost their jobs because of the general credit squeeze, the high interest rates, the high taxation rates and the currency revaluations are beyond the relief of this scheme. The scheme was badly conceived and it has been unjust in its application. 
If the Minister wants another example of this he can listen to or look at the transcript of the radio program 'PM ' of 3 March in which a constituent of the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)-  one of the Labor members in this place- gave a full description of the difficulties which he had in having his application for income maintenance processed. Other examples have come across the table from all members of this House. There are literally thousands of examples of anomalies and injustices which have resulted from the income maintenance scheme being related directly to those displaced by tariff policy and having no regard to other general economic policies. As a result, people on unemployment benefits are discriminated against when compared with their colleagues who are on a figure which represents an average of their 6 months earnings prior to their being retrenched. 
The honourable member for Wannon referred towards the end of his speech to several other specific anomalies which were important. I mention another which relates to those people who remained in employment with firms which were affected by the tariff reduction. Overtime was reduced, so those who remained in employment in fact were getting less than the gross average earnings of those who were retrenched. Furthermore, some employees had protection, as the honourable member for Wannon mentioned, when they had 2 jobs and were retrenched from one of those jobs as a result of tariff policy. We have also had the anomaly of employers being able to give a statutory declaration to employees to enable them to obtain benefits under the income maintenance scheme and the employers themselves not being recognised by the Department of Manufacturing Industry so that they could, be similarly compensated as part of the entire structural readjustment program. 
The Minister referred with some pride to the fact that the Regional Employment Development scheme has now worked extremely well. I suggest that the Minister should tour the Commonwealth Employment Service Offices where he would get a different story. If he spoke to officers in his own Department as opposed to those in the central offices in his Department he would get a different story about the way in which the program has worked. The Minister did acknowledge in his reply that there were deficiencies in the early stages of all 3 schemes and he did acknowledge that improvements had been made- running repairs one might say- but if anything needs to be underlined it is the fact that the general economic policy, not solely the preserve of the Minister, has contributed to the high unemployment situation and it is urgent that all of the means adopted be examined carefully by a select committee of this House. It is important that the Minister recognise his area of responsibility. It is important that he sees the RED scheme as being really an extension of social security. It is not an employment policy. It has merit as an extension of social security in these difficult times but it is not aimed at curbing unemployment as such. It is really aimed only at relieving the immediate suffering as a result of unemployment. 
We also have a problem in the administration of the RED scheme which the Minister must acknowledge in that projects which are approved in certain areas are not approved in other areas. The actual criteria seem to vary almost daily. We have in the RED scheme something which is not a substitute for sound economic policy or sound economic planning. When the famous RED Ministers meet in their centralised decisionmaking inordinate delays do occur. The Minister has said they do not occur but every member of this House would have come across constituents who have found problems in all of these schemes- administrative delays- and this is largely due to the fact that departmental officers have not been circulated with a statement of policy. There is an absence of guidelines which brings an instability into the administration, an inconsistency of application and there is, particularly under the RED scheme, susceptibility to political pressure. It is one of those problems which the Minister pretends does not exist but if he goes to his offices he will find that it is quite serious. 
The Minister by his reference to declared areas acknowledged that there have been deficiencies in the past but I would suggest that the criteria are still vague for the present. One may make similar criticisms regarding the National Employment and Training scheme. There are vague criteria for eligibility for training. Training under the NEAT scheme is really only a very accidental regard for the manpower policy problems. We have situations in which people in some cases are being paid income maintenance because their job has become redundant under tariff policy, yet someone else is being trained under the NEAT scheme to fill the job which has in fact become redundant. We have problems of this nature which underlie the emphasis the Opposition has been placing on the general economic policies of the Government and which show again the ultimate folly of the 25 per cent tariff reduction. There are so many examples that one cannot give them all the time that is available. 
I do think it is important to refer to the subject matter of this discussion, that is, the nature and extent of unemployment, the remedies which have been adopted and also to point out that this House will be in recess and these matters will continue to be grave. Even though the Minister may take some comfort from a marginal reduction in unemployment the reduction will be far less than has been the case in any other February in memory. In those circumstances, because of the Minister's failure to acknowledge the gravity of the situation, his failure to accept the challenge put out by the honourable member, for Wannon, I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Wannon moving that a select committee be appointed for the purposes outlined by the honourable member for Wan.ion in the matter of public importance which he raised this morning. 
The reason for moving that motion is, of course, as I have said, the Minister's glee at the apparent reduction in unemployment in February which is in fact a reduction comparatively much less than in other months of February and the Minister's failure to grasp the fact that the various unemployment relief programs have been ill conceived. They have not been conceived as a result of the unpreparedness of the previous Government but they have been ill-conceived because of policies directly introduced by this Government which have aggravated the employment situation. The Minister has failed to acknowledge the fact that as this House will be in recess for 4 weeks - 
Will the Prime Minister inform the house why he did not raise with President Suharto the question of Indonesian political prisoners? 
-The Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  made a more rational endeavour than did the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  to explain away the Government's economic policies. The Minister said, and the Opposition fully agrees, that the Budget next August will be crucial in determining the future of this problem. But it is not the Opposition which is on trial here today; it is very much the Government's policies that are under censure. When we return to government we most certainly will reduce public spending and we will indicate there and then, most properly, where we would do so. The present Treasurer is on record as saying, and I understand that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  also has said, that Government spending must be reduced. It is up to the Government to indicate the ways in which it will do so. 
In his speech today the Treasurer indicated that Government expenditure had risen sharply just as wages had risen sharply, and that they had risen at a rate faster than prices and costs had risen. The Government most clearly has the responsibility to indicate where it will reduce public spending and how it will bear the odium of the unfulfilled expectations which it has created. Let me refer briefly to the remarks of the Treasurer. He has again spoken about inflation being primarily imported. Every time we have a debate on anything resembling inflation, investment, recession or unemployment the Treasurer talks about imported inflation. If the Treasurer is serious about this then the view which is commonly held in the community, that the Treasurer is quite dangerous for the well-being of the economy of this country, seems to be a very justified view. If the Treasurer really believes that the principal causes of the current rate of inflation in 
Australia are imported then he is the victim of serious delusions. For one thing, imports into Australia account for only 15 per cent of our gross domestic product. Therefore the Government cannot argue that increases in the price of imported goods boost inflation. Moreover, Australia's rate of inflation increase has been well in excess of those of most other world economies. 
Today the Treasurer said that Professor Friedman had been used to attack the Government of Australia. That is an insult to an internationally respected economist. He has not been used. His views just happen to be in agreement with the views of the Opposition and at variance with the Government's views. The Government does not like some of the telling points he has made. There would not be one person in Australia who would not welcome a situation in which Professor Friedman had been advising the Government and we had a rate of inflation of 8.7 per cent, which is the rate in the United States of America today. We would have deplored that rate in 1 972. We would rejoice at it in the light of the inflation rate in Australia today. The Treasurer said that he would not support a cut in growth in order to solve inflation. Growth has been cut to the bone already. We have a very serious situation in which there is no further growth in the private sector. Indeed, the Treasurer has said in this House over the last few months that there has been a contraction of the private sector. The Government has ignored the fine tuning that is required to pick the balance between too much money, causing inflation, and too little money, leading to a recession. 
Treasury advice has been ignored and all other advice- including advice from the Opposition and well published policies of the Oppositionhas been diluted. Those parts which the Government has found palatable have been accepted and the rest have been rejected as though they were in some way severable policies. I forecast that by the time this important Budget is brought down average weekly earnings will be running at a ludicrous rate and 50 per cent of average weekly earnings will be payable in personal income taxation. When August comes let us see how close we are to that situation. A little while ago a milestone was reached when average weekly earnings reached $100 a week. If the present monetary policies continue it will not be very long before average weekly earnings will reach $200, and $100 will be paid in personal income taxation unless the Government recognises that, if it is to restore growth in this country, it certainly must reduce taxation and reduce 
Government expenditure because, as Professor Friedman has been saying, a government can go on increasing its public expenditure for as long as the taxation burden is bearable. It is evident that saturation point has been reached in individual income tax and corporate income tax, and they are no longer bearable. 
Apparently there is to be no relief from the increases in Government spending. It was affirmed again today that there will be an Australian Government Insurance Office, with all the public expenditure that it will entail. Unless there is a real reversal of the monetary policies of the Government along the lines suggested by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  but avoided by the Treasurer, we will find ourselves in a situation in which unemployment, interest rates and inflation will rise to hyperproportions as if that were not the situation now. There is a huge deficit, and the deficit must be reduced. It will be interesting to compare the words of the Minister for Social Security with the Budget when the Budget is before us. There must be a cut in public expenditure, and the cut must be faced up to by the Government, in order to generate resources in the Australian community. As the former Treasurer said on so many occasions, we now have a situation of a total wages bill. The total wages bill will be broken into each time there are wage increases, and each time there are wage increases fewer job opportunities will be available. There will be more unemployment. 
The present Treasurer has acknowledged that wage increases are rising rapidly and they will continue to rise. It is evident in the metal trades industry at the moment, as a result of the pace setting policies of the Australian Government in respect of its Public Service, that there will be further wages increases. When there are wage increases and when inflation in continuing to run as it is running now, how can any government expect to contain wage demands other than by a reduction in taxation? On 18 February we had a debate in this House on private sector investment. The record of that debate appears in Hansard at about page 368. 1 recall speaking on that occasion and using statistics to which I shall not refer specifically now except to reassert some conclusions drawn from those statistics. Since the Australian Labor Party has come to office there has been a real decline in capital expenditure of private business in Australia. Capital expenditure is not expanding in private business but of course public sector expansion is quite evident. It is far greater than any part of the private sector and the private sector as a whole is contracting. 
The monetary policies of the present Government are nothing short of being crazy. Taxation has reached saturation point. 
There is a failure to understand the role of the private sector and the role of profits in providing employment. We heard the Treasurer today using pre-Terrigal phrases such as private sector monopolies. We have a Labor Government which has regarded private industry as a means of an endless supply of revenue through which the Government can spend public moneys as though there would be no repercussions. The repercussions have certainly arrived. The chickens have come home to roost. The Government is determined to distort the private sector. Each time that happens there are ramifications which, if they are foreseen, are foreseen and ignored. 
The Treasurer said today during question time that he was prepared to go on spending public money indefinitely to find jobs for the unemployed; yet, as the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  pointed out, each time he spends more public money in the present environment he lessens job opportunities and guarantees that he will need to spend more and more moneys in order to try to bolster up jobs. The latest figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics, which were released on 27 March of this year, confirm that the trends evident in September have continued and that the December quarter of 1973 compared with the December quarter of 1974 showed a movement in 1974 by 1 3 per cent in private capital spending and 1 2 per cent in public spending. Industry is doing well today if it manages to keep up with inflation. It is doing well if it is even spending at a comparable rate to the public sector. The Government certainly will have to review the whole of its monetary policies. Until there is a strike at the Mint or a reversal of Government policy we will continue to have the printing of money, which will lead to a real diminution in the value of the dollar. 
I wish to answer the only 2 criticisms that the honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Dawkins)  made of the speech of the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  Firstly, on the subject of an ideological bias all the member for Corangamite was doing was warning that in the eyes of some people the Trade Union Training Authority might have an ideological bias because some of those trade unions which have been conducting their own programs most clearly have had an ideological bias. The honourable member for Corangamite was also warning the House that the Authority ought not to be used for courses for one trade union. The honourable member for Tangney suggested that we want good functionaries merely for court appearances and in negotiations. That is not all that the Opposition wants to see. That was very unjust criticism. The honourable member for Corangamite made it clear that we certainly wanted that, but, as the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said in his second reading speech, we also want a great deal more. 
We do indeed welcome the definition of 'trade union training' in clause 3 of the BUI. Paragraph 
of that definition states that trade union training means educational, technical and practical training for members of trade unions in any other fields approved by the Australian Council. That leaves a lot of room and provides desirable flexibility for training in broad matters, such as fundamental labour economics and fundamental management training. When one thinks of labour economics one thinks of the fact that so many rank and file trade unionists and so many organisers need to understand the workings of the economy.in which they are operating. They need to understand the role of profits, however much their rhetoric may despise profits. They need to understand the need for improved productivity if they are themselves to gain improvements in their living and working standards. We also need to make sure that fundamental industrial law is taught, that industrial psychology is at least touched upon and introduced and that management principles will enable union secretaries and other officials to run their unions as a business in the interests of thenmembers also will be taught. It is to this end that the honourable member for Corangamite has foreshadowed that he will move an amendment in the Committee stage. 
It is important that this Parliament has the opportunity of reviewing annually the syllabus which is in fact operative in the Trade Union Training Authority. We can then see whether it is going far enough for trade union training and whether it has any type of bias. I believe that in this fashion there will be non-intervention, noninterference, by the Parliament and there will be the opportunity for the Parliament to see what progress is being made because, amongst other things, whilst trade union training has been adopted overseas, as the Minister well knows the 1974 International Labour Organisation convention embraced a much broader interpretation of paid educational leave than has been so far contemplated in the rest of the Bill.. This, indeed, could be contemplated within paragraph (b) of the definition of 'Trade Union Training' in clause 3. 
As the Minister well knows as he did attend some of the sessions of the Paid Educational Leave Committee- I had the opportunity of being there for the month of the conference in 1973 and of attending the sessions of that Committee during that time- the concept of paid educational leave and trade union training embraces not merely the presentation of demands but also the acquisition of higher skills. It is my hope that in time the Trade Union Training Authority will have a role in retraining and improving the skills of the work force. For too long the situation has existed in which people served apprenticeships and believed that that had qualified them for life. There is not one person in Australia who has not had to undergo some form of retraining. It is usually on-the-job retraining. But too often there are people with apprenticeship tickets who say: 'That is it. I am qualified for life'. There has been a reluctance on the part of the trade union movement itself to recognise the value of and the need for retraining. When these courses are operative and when it is understood by the work force as well as by management that there is a need to improve the level of job training and retraining we will improve our productivity and we will improve our standard of living. 
That goes hand in hand with teaching trade union officials how to gain real improvements in wages and conditions for their members. It is not merely enough, as we all know here, for trade unions to be getting increased money amounts in wages. They need to get real wage increases. They will get those better if the syllabus of the Trade Union Training Authority is wide enough to enable them to have a fundamental grasp of economics and not just a concentrated antipathy and antagonism towards the employers. There are those in the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and in one or two other areas where the extreme left is in control who want to destroy industry and to destroy the system, but this Bill will certainly apply to the vast majority of rank and file trade unionists who wish to benefit from the system and who wish to improve the quality of life generally. 
The Minister well knows also that the Paid Educational Leave Convention contemplates eventually a tripartite administration. This matter was referred to partly by the honourable member for Corangamite. It is one we would applaud, irrespective of whether paid educational leave becomes mandatory, when the concept of paid educational leave becomes sufficiently universal on a voluntary basis; sufficiently widespread that it is appropriate for the employers and government as well as for the trade unions to be in charge of the administration of the program of paid educational leave. We have noted also that the ILO convention contemplates the participation of the lower ranks of management in programs. It is important to note the important distinction that the honourable member for Corangamite has made that, although the Government has indeed funded management schools it has funded them for commercial purposes; that is, there are not many courses available to management which concentrate on industrial relations. 
It is a fact which we must all deplore that, with the exception of ones like the Administrative Staff College which enable management and trade union representatives to get training in some of these very fundamental areas, most management programs have concentrated on commercial factors and the improvement of the wellbeing of a company from a purely commercial point of view and have neglected, to the cost of the community and the company, the industrial relations program. So it is not sufficient for the Government to say, merely because it has funded a commercial management program, that therefore management has been taken care of. 
The lower ranks of management- I think particularly of the foremen and the supervisorsmost desperately need the sort of program contemplated by the Trade Union Training Authority. It is a fact that the elected shop stewards usually have demonstrated a greater social awareness and a greater social conscience than have the promoted foremen and supervisors. The most conservative influence in the work place is very often at that level, and the better intentions of higher management are very often misplaced and not applied because of this. It is therefore essential that we have integrated programs for the foremen and the supervisors with the shop stewards when that is appropriate. It will not always be appropriate, but there will be occasions when it will do them good to get together with more senior management and realise that they need to devise methods of communicating with each other at the work place which are appropriate to that work place, so that they can better prevent industrial disputes arising and settle industrial disputes when they arise. It is therefore most important that these lower ranks of management which have been neglected by management programs as well as by Government programs should be catered for. 
It is important also that these programs of the Training Authority have regard to industrial safety. There is a need to create a greater consciousness of industrial safety, the need for safety, the cost in both human and monetary terms of a lack of safety. The larger companies are well aware of it and their programs are basically good, but the vast number of employees in Australia are employed by small companies whose safety awareness is nowhere near as great as it might be despite the efforts of the National Safety Council of Australia. 
We have also as a proper matter of concern eventually for the Training Authority considerations of job restructuring, job enrichment, job design or whatever one cares to term it. It is important that we recognise that in Australia today many of the wage demands that are made stem from the dullness of the jobs which people are doing. Management has been to blame in this but so too has the trade union movement, often in not offering suggestions or still more often in resisting changes. Sometimes the changes to the system of work are not properly communicated by management, but it is important that for trade union training programs possibilities of job restructuring, possibilities of ideas coming from the work force to management be considered so that much of the job dullness can be eliminated, the unnecessary and undesirable level of job turnover can be eliminated and the number of 'sickies' that people take to go fishing because they just cannot stand going to work may be reduced. These cause a serious loss of productivity improvement in Australia. There is a tremendous lack of imagination and creativity on the part of the work force. We are not using our resources- human or financial- well enough and it is important that these matters be discussed. Many strikes and many industrial disputes which arise are not, as is commonly thought, the result of some weird left-wing plot. They are very often as a result of poor communication with the work force and poor job conditions in terms of job satisfaction. Often there has been on the part of management too much preoccupation with improvements of a computer kind and not enough with technological advances at the place of work, and the trade union movement has not welcomed or encouraged them any more then it has encouraged retraining. 
Too many union secretaries have been concerned with making sure that they did not lose members from their union because of retraining. Too many of them also have been concerned to prevent others who had been retrained coming into their work force in case they became unemployed when there was an economic downturn and those union secretaries then had an unemployment problem on their hands which would make more work for them. I hope that as a result of some of the trade union training programs under this legislation we will find more rank and file awareness of the shortcomings of some of the paid union officials and that they would at the appropriate time, at the ballot box, show their awareness and change and smarten up some of their trade union leaders so as to overcome some of these prejudices and some of the shortcomings. This would certainly in my view overcome much of the industrial disruption, much of the loss of production through man-days lost, through absenteeism, through job turnover and wasteful approaches to the work place. There is a lot of frustration at the work place and I believe that much of it can be overcome by the broader measures which are contemplated in this Bill. 
I think that it would be important for the Minister to indicate to us just what view the Government takes about courses for foremen and supervisors if the Minister does not see the way clear for an integration of some courses. I know that he is well aware of the problem to which I have referred, of the shortcomings of foremen and supervisors generally. We would be in a catastrophic situation if we found that senior management had gradually increased its awareness of the problem, as had shop stewards and other union persons at the work place, but that those in the middle had been neglected, and this is so often the case. How many times do we know that in fact a delegation goes from the shop floor to the factory manager, who communicates with the members of the delegation, promises them something, says he will communicate it down the line and then he takes a telephone call from interstate or overseas or runs out to attend an important meeting, and of course the work force knows about it before the foreman or the supervisors and there is a fair amount of resistance? If they can get into the habit of working together and if they can do some of the integrated courseswhich should be possible- of the very fundamental kind, in what productivity means, what better communications means, what dispute settling procedures mean, then we will have indeed taken a major step in improving industrial relations and in improving our safety consciousness and our acquisition of new skills. 
As the honourable member for Corangamite said, we must overcome the 'them' and 'us' or the 'we' and 'they' mentality which prevails too much. The fault for this lies on both sides. We are not talking here about fault. We are talking about eliminating something which we all recognise as a fact. I believe that if programs are implemented in the constructive way in which we have foreshadowed- we do not expect miracles overnight but we do think Parliament can review the performance of the Authority annually- it will be a major step towards the improvement of industrial relations in this country. 
I concur with the sentiments of the honourable member  for Hunter  (Mr James)  in his description of the law of rape. I would like to talk about rape of a different kind- the rape of the private sector of the economy. I refer specifically to a proposal by the Government to extend and rebuild the Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Ltd. The Commonwealth Brickworks began before Canberra was properly established. It was a necessary move to make sure that there was a brickworks in Canberra. This organisation has been operating for more than 50 years and the decision of the McMahon Government was that the brickworks should be phased out. Instead of that, the present Government has decided that although the machinery is antiquated and although it had to be phased out and removed from the site at which it was located, it would get a new site and install modern equipment- equipment which has been designed, invented and proved to be effective as a result of private industry endeavour. The Government set out to set up what amounts to a monopoly in brick production in Canberra and the surrounding areas. 
It is important to recognise that it has served a very useful purpose. It was a non party political decision really that kept this brickworks operating. But now that Canberra is so well established and now that in the surrounding areas- notably in Queanbeyan- there are 2 major brickworks which have invested during the last 10 years the best part of $5m in capital expansion and modernisation and are able to supply bricks to Canberra and the surrounding areas, it is quite unjustified to spend taxpayers' money, waste the resources of the taxpayer and waste the resources of the private sector because of the grave overcapacity problem which will be made graver still. The capital cost to the taxpayers is estimated to be $4.5 m. If one considers the way costs are escalating under this Government and the way Government estimates are notoriously wrong, the amount is more likely to be $6m or $7m of taxpayers 'funds. 
I raise the matter today so that the Minister for the Capital Territory may examine some of the matters I raise and look at the project again with a view to deferring or abandoning it. At the very least the Minister ought to answer to this Parliament a number of questions which I shall ask. I informed the Minister that I intended to speak on this subject this morning. I ask: Have tenders actually been called for? If so, when are the contracts likely to be signed? When is the building to commence? At what cost and on what terms? What survey has been done regarding the marketing needs of the ACT and the existing supplies from private industry? What environmental impact studies have been conducted? What are the results of these? The Minister should make a full statement to Parliament. The honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden)  asked the Minister a question on this subject. The Minister's reply appears on page 1040 of Hansard of 1 August 1974. The Minister stated: 
It is the present policy of the Company - 
That is, Commonwealth Brickworks (Canberra) Ltd.-  to modernise and expand its production sufficiently to retain its traditional share of the local market for clay bricks. 
Traditionally the company made simply the basic bricks. It did not make the facial, more aesthetic bricks. Now the company is to move into all areas of bricks and will expand in such a way that if it is really to make maximum use of the capital equipment it will install it most certainly will be seeking to manufacture a wide range of bricks in such quantities as to supply not only the needs of Canberra but also those of the surrounding environs. 
So the Minister owes us an explanation of just what is the program. Is it proposed that the brickworks will be running at under capacity? If it is to run at over capacity, what consideration has the Government given to advising those who have invested their capital and their labour in surrounding areas? If the brickworks expands and develops it will have the effect eventually of forcing the private companies in surrounding areas to consider closing down. They would be reluctant to close down because of their capital investment, but it is certain that with the over capacity that already exists in Canberra to introduce this new measure would cause the other companies to make retrenchments. Without being unduly alarmist, retrenchment is the main area of my emphasis today. The honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Whan)  is in the chamber.  His  electorate will be the most affected by retrenchments because it is the Queanbeyan area in which 2 major companies supplying bricks to Canberra are located. 
I have some important figures that I think should be recorded in Hansard. The installed capacity of existing company plants which are economically able to supply Canberra is 124 million bricks per annum. The approximate capacity of the existing Government brickworks in Canberra is 30 million bricks per annum. This makes a total of 154 million bricks per annum. The existing demand for bricks in Canberra is 80 million bricks per annum. This means there is a surplus capacity of bricks of suitable quality of 74 million bricks per annum. Therefore, the industry is working at a little more than 50 per cent of installed capacity and consequently it is operating at loss or near loss conditions. 
The brick industry in Canberra, Queanbeyan, Bowral and Cooma employs or hopes by expansion to employ more than 260 people. I think it is important to note that a factory at Cooma is being expanded and that 25 per cent of the Bowral brickworks' production comes to Canberra. This means that a lot of people will be affected by the decision of the Minister for the Capital Territory. Another question which the Minister should answer concerns the intention of the Government to make this Government brick factory compete fairly with private industry. It was the decision of the honourable member for Gwyder  (Mr Hunt)  when he was Minister for the Interior that this should happen. He said that all the taxes, rates and charges and costs which private companies must meet would be met by the Commonwealth brick factory. We should hear the Minister on this. This question is remarkably reminiscent of the theme which we will be discussing this afternoon when we debate the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill. The 
Commonwealth brick factory of course has never operated fairly and never operated according to sound commercial principles. 
-That is right. In 1971-72 the company made a net profit of $780. No tax was payable then. In 1972-73 the company made a net profit, after tax, of $7,807. If this company were competing fairly it would have to charge prices for its bricks which would enable it to earn profits commensurate with invested funds. This would mean that it would be charging much more for its bricks than does private industry. The company's accounts for the 1973-74 financial year are simply not available. This is something which no private industry would be allowed to get away with under the Companies Act. But this company has not even produced its accounts for the year 1973-74. The accounts for 1971-72 show that the Commonwealth Government provided a total capital of $1,232,027. The Minister should tell the Parliament just what is the net profit or loss of the company for each year since its inception. He should discuss the question of future income tax and also should tell us what the dividends have been to the Commonwealth. 
It is worth noting that the Treasury has advanced $800,000 and that no interest had been charged as at the time of the last available annual accounts, 30 June 1972. Therefore, the so-called profit of $780 is no profit at all. The latest price list of the company shows that when compared with the price lists of private enterprise the company is not really competing. It is a subsidised Government operation and it could not compete with the prices of private industry. The Commonwealth Government simply should not compete with private industry unless it is prepared to do so openly, fully and fairly. This it cannot do. The whole notion of private enterprise, of the profit motivation, is so foreign to the Public Service and the Government that the Government should stay out of it and prevent the waste of taxpayers' funds and the waste of private investment funds. We have a situation of over capacity and if the Government goes ahead and aggravates that over capacity we will have a serious situation of unemployment in the brick industry in the surrounding areas of Canberra. It is time for the Minister to call a halt to this, to analyse the method and to abandon the idea of having an extended Commonwealth brickworks. 
It would seem appropriate that this legislation which establishes the Australian Government Insurance Corporation should make reference to the fact that it is a Corporation which is designed to compete fairly with existing insurance companies. It would seem to me appropriate that in  clause 1 there should be a statement which pervades the entire Bill making it clear that the spirit of the Bill is that the Corporation will be in fair competition with insurance companies. I would have thought it would be appropriate for an amendment to have been moved by the Government to make the clause read in conformity with that spirit. 
I have long had a personal regard for the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  but when students of economic history come to read the speech he made today, along with those of other Government spokesmen in recent months, they will find this a most confusing period to study. They will see that the Government does not understand the delicate mechanisms with which it is tampering and they will see in each of the speeches, including the one just completed, a mass of selfcontradictions. We have heard today from the Minister for Overseas Trade that competition in the general insurance industry is running mad. 
He is quoted quite widely as having on 13 December 1973 said:  . . . there are already operating in Australia a large number of insurance companies which appear to be adequately meeting the country's insurance requirements. In these circumstances and given the important role played by these companies in the social and economic life of Australia, there is a need for an assessment of the costs and benefits which might flow from the establishment of new companies. 
Yet we hear today that yet another new company is planned- and planned with Government backing. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade referred to the fact that 20 per cent of general insurance in Australia is already nationalised. He used the term in relation to the State government insurance offices. The State government insurance .offices are heavily subsidised, and undisguisedly subsidised, by the State governments. It is very difficult to compare them with private insurance companies because they are not subject to the same stringent accounting requirements of the Companies Act. It is difficult to find the ways in which they are operating compared with private industry. Nevertheless they are demonstrably inefficient. They are demonstrably unable to compete. We have a whole series of situations in which they are deliberately restraining their premiums to uneconomic levels in order to provide what they call a service. It means that in the areas of compulsory third party insurance, for example, non-car owners are subsidising the insurance of car owners. Is that what the community wants? It is a very important point. 
I do not wish to spend my time answering the previous  speaker.  I support what has been said by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  and by the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony).  I support their reasons for seeking to have this matter deferred. There are many matters of great complexity in this Bill. First of all I record my support also for the notion of natural disaster compensation. Clearly we have to have a system of compensation for earthquakes, floods and cyclones. What is at issue is the form of administration of the compensation. We see plans put forward by the Government and other plans put forward to the Treasury in October 1974 by the industry. Opposition members have not had sufficient time to study them nor have we seen the Government's plans clearly outlined. We require the next few months to look at them. 
Secondly, I have searched the Minister's second reading speech in vain to find any real justification for the establishment of the Australian 
Government Insurance Corporation. Having listened to the debate this afternoon, including the remarks of the Minister for Overseas Trade, I still cannot find anything more than the assertions of what the Corporation can do and why it must be in the hands of the Government. We have been told that there will be lower insurance premiums. As I have said already, they will be subsidised at uneconomic levels. They are not competitive in any way. People ought to understand that, if they are not paying in premiums directly, the tax- payers as a whole will be paying for them. We ave been told that there will be better service. Those of us who have studied administration and industry know that in a situation of entrenched job security, especially at managerial level but really at all levels, there is no great incentive to make that extra effort to provide service to get the custom and efficiency and to keep costs down. Indeed, the whole essence of competition is to keep costs down. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade was correct when he said that in the general insurance industry we have competition gone mad. That is a condition which has been known to the industry for years. That is why the industry approached the McMahon Government to get the Insurance Acts from which originally this AGIC was to be excluded. Now we see in one of the amendments to be moved by the Government that a certain section of the Acts- I have not had time to look at it- will not apply to the renamed Corporation. It is important that the industry has undergone willingly in conjunction with the McMahon Government and the Whitlam Government a process of rationalisation to try to reduce the number of competitiors. But certainly it is economic madness to talk about introducing another entity, government sponsored, into the field which will receive government interest free capital grants on interest free terms or low, noncommercial interest terms and endless Government backing, at least in a psychological sense. 
We have heard it asserted that this Australian Government Insurance Corporation, as it will now be called, will provide more and cheaper housing loans. As far as one can tell, it seems that this will be done through what was known as the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. This Corporation was established by the LiberalCountry Party Government. It has been a huge success. The Prime Minister praised it as recently as this week. This Corporation really is to operate as before but now under the umbrella of the new AGIC. I would also like to make it clear that I am philosophically opposed to this AGIC. I am philosophically opposed to the notion that a government body with this kind of backing and with all the advantages that go with it, no matter what the legislation may ultimately say, will have the opportunity to invest in private enterprise and have the opportunity to buy up private companies, extend its tentacles and then give the Government an undue power to influence and control the economy. This has been alluded to to some extent by the Leader of the National Country Party. It is a most important point in terms of principle. This is where the major division between the Labor Party and the Opposition parties lies. It is actually a philosophical difference and it is a perfect illustration of the division between us. 
We also find that the whole proposition is really commercially unsound. It ill behoves this Government with its record of economic mismanagement to talk about the way in which its instrumentality will run in competition with the private sector which, as we have already heard, is so highly competitive and which is suffering so much from inflation, taxation and pay outs for natural disasters that it is in serious trouble. But here we have another blow at that industry. It is the height of irresponsibility for the Government to establish yet another body with all the threats to the private sector that that has. The experience of nationalised industries in the United Kingdom has been that such industries are never allowed to run at a profit, whether they operate under the Labor government or the Conservative government. They are never allowed to run at a profit because their tariffs and charges- in this case, premiums- are too geared to political decisions. It is always unpopular to increase the charges of statutory bodies. They are too geared to political decisions. This will be the situation here, no matter what autonomy the Bill says the board of this AGIC will have. 
As I have mentioned already, the State government insurance offices have restrained their premiums to uneconomic levels. That is why they have a near monopoly in the field of compulsory third party insurance. Whilst the Government may claim that it has a mandate to establish this body because its establishment was contained in the policy speech of the Labor Party at 2 elections and has been in its platform for a long time, honourable members opposite cannot tell me that the people of Australia voted for the Labor Party on the basis that it would establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. They cannot tell me that they voted for its implementation at a time of extreme ill in the economy. The cost is reason alone for the 
Government to reconsider the actual impact of this measure. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade says that it is a pygmy among insurance companies, but it is the potential that we are all. concerned about, especially at this time. It is not just the Opposition that is saying this for some political advantage. The editorials of newspapers all around the country are saying similar things. Marches have been held in Adelaide. The people who took place in these marches are not all employees of insurance companies. They are people who are concerned by this further example of meddling in an economy by a Government which really does not understand the way in which the economy functions. If one looks also at the Bill itself and the second reading speech of the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  one sees a tremendous number of disparities between the Bill and that speech. There are a tremendous number of areas which have been given a lot of public airing. I shall not refer to them now but I will do so in the Committee stage of the debate. They are areas which, even on the face of the Bill itself, show that the AGIC will be competing at a great advantage and will not be competing fairly with private companies. The way in which the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation,  Senator Wheeldon,  who is the Minister in charge of the Bill, has agreed to accept some amendments has indicated this. This is also indicated by the way in which at a Press conference the Minister did not understand some of the questions that were put to him, questions that were fundamental to the insurance industry. Finally, he had to have some Dorothy Dix questions directed to him in the Senate in order to make his position clear. All these things are matters of grave concern to the general public. We have a Minister and a Government which does not understand the industry with which it is tampering and the ramifications which that tampering has for the economy as a whole. 
Even if the legislation is cured so that, as far as legislation can go, we have maximum competition between the private companies and this new Corporation, we still have the psychology of the policy holders that it will be a government backed body and we have the psychology of the entrenched managers who will be appointed that really they do not have to make a profit; they are not accountable to anybody and they do not have to pay a dividend; really, they cannot be sacked because, after all, they are public servants or the equivalent thereof; anyway, the Government would always bail them out. There would be unlimited capital funds and unlimited access to borrowings if, in fact, the Government controlled both Houses of the Parliament. 
In the Committee stage of the debate I shall refer to some of the other unfair aspects of this Bill. Another matter that is of great concern- it has been referred to by the Leader of the National Country Party and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition- is the cumulative impact of the package of measures that this Government plans for the insurance industry. We have the national compensation proposal, national superannuation and the Commonwealth Public Service Bill, which has been introduced into the House today, with all the potential that it has for flow-on to the private sector. What a time to introduce such a measure. We are talking about indexation of wages and restraint within the community, yet we have these kinds of measures being introduced into the Parliament for discussion. This is a serious matter for the whole community. 
In effect, we find that this Bill is being introduced at a time of over competition within the insurance industry. This has been acknowledged in the debate by speakers from the Government side. It is being introduced at a time when the Insurance Acts rationalisation is taking effect and at a time when the insurance industry, like all other industries but by its very nature especially, is feeling the effects of inflation. It is feeling the effects of increased taxation from this Government. It is feeling the effects of recent natural disasters. It is feeling and perceiving a massive transfer of funds from the private sector to the public sector. These funds are being transferred from a relatively efficient area to a demonstrably incompetent area. All these matters are reasons why this Bill ought to be deferred. It ought to be examined carefully. It shows all signs of haste in preparation. 
I illustrate that with one dramatic example by referring to clause 14. It is worth dealing with clause 14 at this stage because it is one of the great fears- perhaps the most serious fear of the general industry. Clause 14 states: 
1 ) The Minister may, from time to time, by writing under his hand, request the Board to investigate and report to him whether the Office could - 
I stress the word 'Office'. It does not state 'industry' - ... in accordance with sound commercial principles, enter into a particular class of contracts of insurance, or enter into a particular class of contracts of insurance on particular conditions, and the Board shall comply with any such requests. 
In his second reading speech, the Special Minister of State said: 
If insurance against a particular class of risk cannot be made available on a commercial basis and if the Government is of the opinion that such insurance should be available in the national interest, the Minister may prescribe that the Australian Government Insurance Office provide it. The Government will guarantee any losses incurred in undertaking such national interest insurance. 
What is important in reading clause 14 is that on the face of the statement by the Minister it would appear that, wherever insurance of a particular class or subject to certain conditions could not be conducted by anyone in the industry on sound commercial principles, then and only then will the AGIC come into the act and provide that insurance, subject to certain favourable tax advantages. When one reads the Bill one sees that there is no reference to 'the industry'; it is only whether the 'Office ' or what is now the ' Corporation' will be in a position to provide this. 
When one looks at the first sub-clause of clause 14 one sees reference to certain conditions. One wonders whether it will be a case of the Minister saying to the Board: 'Can you write a certain class of insurance subject to certain conditions?' It does not take much imagination to think that a Minister might ask the Board to impose conditions which it knows could not be complied with according to sound economic principles or sound commercial principles as it would be uneconomic for the private sector to take on that class of insurance or insurance subject to those particular conditions. So, the AGIC, which would find it uneconomic to do so, would say: 'We cannot do it'. The Minister would then say: 'Very well, this is a national interest matter. You can get it with all the benefits which go with it, including freedom from State stamp duty and so forth'. 
The clause goes on to provide for a procedure by which the Minister and the Board communicate with each other. Sub-clause (3) of clause 14 provides that if the board has told the Minister that it cannot write a particular class of insurance subject to certain conditions the Minister can declare by regulation that it is in the national interest. These regulations, while the Opposition has a majority in the Senate, may be rejected. So, if a proposal is not bona fide in accordance with the spirit of the Minister's second reading speech, the Senate certainly can reject the regulations. But, if ever the day comes when the present Government has control in the 2 Houses, the insurance industry has a great deal to fear and so has the rest of the country because of the power that this provision would give to the Government over the private sector. 
Looking at sub-clause (3) further one sees also that this regulation prevails notwithstanding what is said in clause 13 which is the clause which makes it clear that the Board has a great deal of autonomy. This is the important aspect. By the provisions of sub-clause (3) of clause 14 there is little autonomy indeed. Finally, I turn to sub-clause (5) of clause 14 which provides: 
A reference in this section to conditions in relation to contracts of insurance includes a reference to conditions with respect to the amount of the premium to be charged or the percentage of the amount of the loss to which the insurance is to extend. 
So, it is not a case, as the second reading speech of the Minister which I quoted earlier implies, of a particular contingency which we are considering; it is the case of any conditions which the Minister cares to lay down in respect of premiums to be charged or the percentage of the amount of the loss to which the insurance is to extend. This is a very serious inroad. If that was done in haste, it certainly ought to be withdrawn. If it was not done in haste, it can be regarded only as devious and it is another justification for having the matter examined more closely. 
One wonders whether, on a closer examination of the legislation than we have had in a fortnight, one would find many more faults of that nature. One can say only that the Government has been told many, many times that it has moved too hastily in too many areas. This is yet another example of its eagerness to get through a massive reform and to set up a new lot of bureaucracies, meddling with a private sector which in fact has served this country very well and which has increased the living standards of all Australians as a result of its investments. One can always argue whether productivity should have been higher and whether different and more productive investments should have been made; but there is no argument that a government could possibly invest, prosper and increase the productivity of this country better than the private sector. It was said in 1972 that LiberalCountry Party governments had become out of touch with the people after 23 years. One can say only that this Government has achieved that in 2 years. It has created an unbelievable amount of economic and social chaos in that time. If this Bill is not deferred and given the closest scrutiny, we will have an even more serious state of economic and social chaos on our hands. Therefore, I support the amendment moved by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
I support clause 48 as it now stands. I support it because it is simple and straightforward. We will never get a perfect law. I believe that clause 48 as it now stands will give maximum justice for all concerned. I believe that we owe a great deal to the joint party Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which has made the Bill essentially what it now is. There is some superficial attraction in the proposal of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  but I do not believe that it improves clause 48 as it now stands. 
The matter of fault has been well canvassed and it is a remarkably non-controversial issue. I think that some people will be attracted to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  because it seeks to eliminate paragraph (c) of the amendment to sub-clause (2) of the Bill proposed by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  But I would suggest that the amendment of the honourable member for Griffith is still too harsh. It is harsh because it proposes that even after one year marriage may be dissolved only when each party genuinely desires that the application be granted. There is a world of difference between genuinely desiring and not being opposed to the dissolution of marriage when one party genuinely desires it. I think that this is a very important point. The prospects for reconciliation are remote after a couple have decided to separate and after they have actually been separated for one year. Sub-clause (3) of clause 48 in fact gives a measure of protection to those who have any prospect of reconciliation left to them. 
The virtue of clause 48 apart from eliminating fault, is that it eliminates the quickie divorce and the collusion that goes with it. Reference has been made to this today. It is important that we eliminate all those unsavoury aspects of our current law. I believe that everyone can afford to wait one year before commencing divorce proceedings. These people do not have to live together or under the same roof. However, it would be harsh if some people had to wait more than one year. I believe that it would be harsh to make them wait for 2 years. There will also be fewer rebound marriages if people are obliged to wait for one year instead of taking the quickie divorces of which we have heard mention. 
In regard to unilateral decisions, there must be other provisions in this Bill to protect people who suffer hardship as a result of divorces at the behest of their spouses against their will. It is a question of a clause by clause consideration to see whether the other provisions in the Bill are adequate to protect an unwilling spouse. The basic purpose of this Bill, and of this clause in particular, is to dissolve marriages with as much dignity and compassion and with as little social disruption as possible. I believe that clause 48 as it now stands does achieve that. I believe that the proposed amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth in fact will introduce legalism which is most undesirable. Legalism has crept into the administration of the English Act which contains the so-called objective tests. Objective tests may not in their ideal have a fault connotation but in their implementation they do. In any analysis of human behaviour I believe that the amendment would allow legalism to creep in which the present clause 48 avoids. 
Mention has been made of marriages which have not been consummated and marriages with homosexuals. We find that couples marrying today usually know more about each other's sexuality than has been the case in days gone by. Homosexuality is not as shocking to people today as was the case previously. Judging by some of the interjections being made, it may still shock some of the older generation. I think that today fewer homosexuals are marrying than was the case before. I find it hard to believe that a couple in those circumstances would not be satisfied to wait for a period of one year for a divorce. The same consideration applies to cruelty. 
I agree with the views expressed by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  that the question of the waiting period is one of judgment. It is my experience and the experience of social workers in the field that clause 48 provides as near a perfect answer to our problem as we are likely to find in this Committee. 
-The Opposition's principal contribution to the Committee stage of the debate will be confined to pointing out those areas in which the Bill does not conform with the principal aims outlined by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  in his second reading speech. The second reading speech indicated that the principal aim of the Bill was to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation to compete fairly with private insurance companies. There is a number of areas in which, by virtue of clause 7, the Government could amend the Bill to make it quite clear that the AGIC will be subject to all of those laws to which private insurance companies are subject. That does not mean merely the trade practices legislation, which has been referred to several times in previous discussion on this matter. It also means all other matters, which would include the question of the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill, which is particularly important in respect of the responsibilities of fund managers, also any future prices justification legislation and, of course, the national compensation legislation. So it would be appropriate in the Opposition's view for clause 7 to contain within its terms a reference to the liability or the responsibility of the AGIC to comply with the laws of the Commonwealth and the States. 
I know that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  will be seeking to amend clause 15 in relation to the Insurance Acts specifically, but we do believe that other laws of the States and the Territories should be taken into account.  Senator Wheeldon  has said that he is under the impression or is of the belief that the Trade Practices Act does cover the AGIC. There are differing legal opinions about that. I have seen a fairly eminent legal opinion to the effect that that is not necessarily the case. There is considerable legal uncertainty about whether the Bill currently does make the AGIC liable to the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. Of course if it were not liable the AGIC would be exempt from the monopolisation provisions in relation to the acquisition of other companies and it would be exempt from the consumer protection and advertising provisions, the exclusive dealing arrangements and the other exclusive tying arrangements that are expressly covered by the Trade Practices Act and are prohibited to the insurance companies. It is important to make quite clear on the face of it that the AGIC is liable in that respect. If the matter ever went to the High Court of Australia it most certainly would not have regard to the transcripts of television interviews of  Senator Wheeldon  or to the utterances recorded in Hansard. It will certainly look at the Bill and that does not appear to be clear on the face of the Bill. Moreover the State and Territory uniform Companies Acts and companies ordinances involve very stringent accounting obligations which are quite costly to comply with as far as the private insurers are concerned. It would be appropriate for the Companies Acts to apply also to the AGIC. 
-Clause 10 concerns the tenure of office of members of the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Board. The tenure of appointment in this clause compares unfavourably with the maximum term of 3 years which is permitted under the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges listing requirements for private companies. I think it is important, if we are to have comparability between the Corporation and the insurance companies, that this provision be amended to provide for a maximum term of 3 years. The other point worth noting is that the people appointed under clause 10 are hot subject to the usual provisions for the removal of directors by the shareholders in a general meeting. 
Clause 12 is one of the more important clauses of the Bill. I wish to make a general comment which expresses some of the fears that the industry now feels. I have been informed that the state insurance office in New Zealand has decided to give Government subsidised discounted premiums to pensioners. The problems of pensioners and other low income earners must be dealt with by other means. If the Government intends in this case- I am not suggesting that it does but the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  might enlighten the Committee on this matter- that the AGIC would be the means whereby pensioners and other low income groups could get discounted premiums, it ought to say so because it could not be done on a basis of fair competition with insurance companies. It is important that the Minister comment on that matter. The Minister might also answer the following question: Will the Government permit the AGIC to enter into commission arrangements with Commonwealth public servants? Will it allow the AGIC to sell insurance to Commonwealth public servants at such discounted rates as to make it uneconomic for companies to seek the business of Commonwealth public servants? 
I would like to refer in particular to sub-clause 12(l)(c)- a very important sub-clause- which enables the AGIC to act as an insurance broker. The Lloyd's Diary, which is a very common document, contains a definition of an insurance broker, as follows:   to represent the assured; to discover his needs; to put his risks before the underwriter in as favourable a light as possible; to obtain the best terms for him when the insurance is placed; and (if there should be a claim) to arrange the settlement, collect the money from the underwriters and pay it out in the right quarter. He must know the market; be able to select the most suitable underwriter for each risk; be sufficiently acquainted with the law to secure the contract of insurance in its right form; prepare the policy and get it signed on behalf of the underwriters; give his help and guidance in the preparation and handling of claims; and generally to act as philosopher and friend to the clients who entrust him with their business. 
The importance of that definition is that, as it stands, sub-clause 12(1 )(c) expects the insurer, the AGIC, to be the representative of those persons seeking insurance. The broker's essential duty is to advise on insurance matters someone other than an insurer. It is therefore incongruous for the AGIC to advise anyone because it is the insurer. It would be extremely difficult for the Corporation to give impartial advice on insurance matters when it is in fact the insurer. As I understand it, the Government has foreshadowed legislation affecting insurance brokers. Surely that legislation would have regard to the probable conflict which arises when the insurer is also a broker. It would be very surprising if the Government did not consider that the function of acting as an insurance broker is incompatible with the impartiality required of an insurance broker in recommending different insurance covers and different insurers. In view of the Government's policy of broker directors in the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill it is also strange that the AGIC should be empowered to be both an insurer and a broker. 
If one looks at sub-clause 12 (2) one notices that if it were not for the amendment which the Minister proposes to clause 15 we would have a grave inequality between the Corporation and private companies because sections 39 and 73 of the Life Insurance Act require High Court approval for the acquisition of a life office by another life office. But as originally drawn, and prior to the amendment to clause 1 5 which has yet to be moved, the AGIC would have been obliged merely to inform the. Minister that it proposed to acquire a substantial interest in another company; and nowhere do we see a definition of 'substantial interest'. The result would have been to have lessened competition substantially in the insurance industry. It is desirable that directors of any corporation agree to the AGIC acquiring an interest in share capital before approval for acquisition is given. I do not wish to belabour this point, but if the Trade Practices Act does not expressly apply, exclusive agency agreements with the Commonwealth Savings Bank or with the Australian Post Office could give an unfair advantage to the AGIC over other companies. I have referred to that matter before and I shall not extend the point. 
With regard to clause 13 I would observe that by giving the Minister power to direct the Corporation to enter into a particular class of contracts of insurance the Government proposes to undermine the much-vaunted autonomy of the AGIC. The Board of the Corporation has a right to resist the Minister, but that right is rendered nugatory when one considers the effect of clause 14, to which we shall come shortly. If autonomy means anything then the Board 's right to resist direction by the Minister ought to extend to declining to enter into such a class of contract of insurance, notwithstanding the Minister's direction, if to follow the Minister's direction would mean that the Board is in breach of its obligations under clause 7 of the Bill or is in breach of the obligations that one would expect it to have under clause 34 of the Bill, which is to make a reasonable profit as measured by sound commercial principles. 
-There are several matters raised by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  to which I should like to reply. Firstly, I agree that the consultative insurance committees are terribly important. What a shame that the Government did not consult the industry through those committees about this Bill. Having made that point I should like to pass on to some other matters. Another point raised by the honourable member for Hawker was that the insurance industry was happy about its Sunday afternoon consultation with the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon).  Insurance industry representatives were happy insofar as they were able to register their implacable opposition to the Bill. Nevertheless, they got the Minister to accede to the amendment to be moved to clause 15. That, at least, was making a better job of a bad job so far as the industry was concerned. 
I share the honourable member's view about the Cooma bus tragedy. What a tragedy it was. But the Minister owes it to the House and to those affected by this Bill to tell us whether it is contemplated that situations such as that will be cured by clause 14, because it is not necessarily so. I would have thought- and I think the honourable member for Hawker would agree with me- that the situation complained of, that is a situation of fault, actions for negligence and arguments between litigants, one of whom is an insurance company, will not be cured by this Bill.  lt  is  one of  the things to be cured by the National Compensation Bill and it raises one of those aspects of the National Compensation Bill with which I most strongly agree. Having said that, I should like to return to something which the Minister said earlier about the government insurance offices. In my experience in the legal profession in New South Wales- I think the Minister would have the same experience- the worst offender at settling on the doorstep of the court was the State Government Insurance Office of New South Wales. But I shall pass on from that point. 
-Why was it the only defendant? Why did the Government Insurance Office have a monopoly of compulsory third party insurance? It is because of the uneconomic premiums that are being charged. A decision has been made by the New South Wales Government and other governments that they will subsidise the premiums. That is the point. Non-car owners are paying to enable lower premiums for car owners. The premiums were so uneconomic that they could not support insurance according to sound commercial principles- the very principles concerned in this Bill. That is the only reason why the Government Insurance Office has a monopoly with respect to this rather unwanted and irrelevant legislation. We should get to a situation of no fault. The State which I now represent has got to that stage with regard to motor car accidents. This is to the credit of the Government of that State. I am bound to say that it is not a Labor government. 
I should like now to deal with clause 14. At pages 2365 and 2366 of Hansard of 15 May, I made fairly detailed reference to clause 14 during my speech in the second reading debate. The Minister would not wish me to repeat my remarks. I believe that it raised important questions and when this matter reaches the Senate the Minister responsible,  Senator Wheeldon,  should be obliged to make some comment. 
Clause 14 clearly covers natural disaster situations. There is no argument about that. We have made it clear that we favour a form of compensation for natural disasters. All that is at issue is the form of administration of it. That is what we want to look at and that is why we sought deferral of this matter. The second problem that arises under clause 14 is that, on a literal reading of clause 14, the Minister may direct the Board to undertake certain classes of insurance on particular conditions. This is the disturbing thing because in sub-clause (5) it is quite clear, and the Minister knows this, that 'conditions' covers the premium to be charged or the percentage of the amount of the loss to which the insurance is to extend. If 'conditions' related only to some future contingency it would conform with the Minister's second reading speech, but it does not. It covers as broad a range of conditions as one could imagine. This means that the Minister of the day may deliberately direct the Board to undertake an absurdly low, uneconomic premium or uneconomic conditions to insure a particular class of contracts and that would be such as to freeze out the commercial companies from that type of insurance. The important point is that it could be set so absurdly as to paralyse the insurance industry and to be constantly underwritten and subsidised. The honourable member for Hawker shakes his head. I hope it does not mean what it says, but at the moment that is what it says and it is not what the second reading speech says. 
Looking at it again, the second reading speech is concerned with the wellbeing of the industry. It is concerned for whether the industry can undertake a certain class of insurance. One would have thought that that would narrow it down to the natural disaster situation. The Bill uses the term 
Office'; presumably it now means 'Corporation'. It is concerned for whether the Corporation could undertake it according to the Minister's directions on the types of conditions to be complied with. Even if we are to ignore that literal reading we may be faced with the situation that for quite a long time the establishment costs of the AGIC will be such that it could not undertake certain classes of insurance. It would not be commercially viable to do so. And so the Board could legitimately say that the AGIC cannot undertake a certain class of insurance according to sound commercial principles because it does not have the infrastructure to do it. This is an important point and I believe it needs to be cleared up. If we have a situation in which the AGIC alone can offer certain classes of subsidised premiums then we certainly do not have any fair competition but a most serious advantage in favour of the AGIC. 
Another problem on which the Minister may care to comment is whether it is possible- it does seem possible- for the AGIC to combine natural disaster policies, for earthquakes, floods and cyclones, with commercial policies in the one package. It can make the commercial policy part of the package comparable with private industry but by the householder getting the package deal he can be encouraged to place the entire package with the AGIC and that alone would give it an advantage. If the AGIC can offer comparable rates on commercial policies but make the package look more attractive it has an advantage over other companies which simply cannot offer the natural disaster fund because it is not in accordance with sensible commercial provisions. The Bill does not specify whether the policies that are issued as a directive of the Minister pursuant to this clause shall be an addition to or an extension of other policies which the AGIC might offer or whether a separate policy will be issued to cover that class of risk which is to be classified as national interest insurance. In conclusion, it is worth observing that national interest insurance is nowhere defined in the Bill. Is it any wonder, on a literal reading of clause 14 as it now stands, that the industry is very concerned and that the Opposition wants further time to consider this matter? 
-The Opposition is pleased that this amendment has been moved. I wish to speak for only a minute or two to highlight the haste with which this Bill has been drawn. This is only perhaps the tip of the iceberg. There is no point in saying again that one is not satisfied with the wording of clause 14 as it stands and it is worth saying that clause 1 5 is greatly improved by the amendment moved by the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  But let us look for a moment at the consequences for the AGIC if clause 15 had not been so amended. The Corporation would have had an extreme advantage over insurance companies because the insurance Acts lay down certain solvency provisions. These solvency provisions require that the ratio of assets to liabilities must be at least 15 per cent of premium income. Currently the Insurance Commissioner is having a lot of administrative difficulties. The interpretation of what are assets, what are liabilities and what is premium income is making it very difficult for the insurance companies. This interpretation problem is coupled with taxation, inflation and natural disasters. The Minister, if I may say so parenthetically, has quoted a number of figures relating to payment by the Australian taxpayers for natural disasters. He did not indicate that, with respect to Darwin, for example, the insurance companies have paid and are paying claims totalling about $260m. Nothing like that amount will be met by the Australian Government. I am not suggesting that it should be but it ought to be remembered that the insurance companies are paying out $260m in respect of the damage caused by cyclone Tracy. 
These are the problems facing the insurance industry at the moment. Many insurance companies, faced with over-competition and these other problems are having difficulty in meeting the solvency requirements in the way in which they are being interpreted. That is not to say that they are near the point of liquidation but merely that administratively they have this problem and they also have a liquidity problem. If the AGIC had been exempt from the two insurance Acts it would have been able to take over ailing companies for a song because other insurance companies would have found themselves distorting their statutory requirements, distorting their ratios between assets and liabilities in such a fashion that they would be in even more danger of being in breach of the solvency provisions of the Insurance Acts. They would, therefore, have been unable to take over an ailing company. The AGIC would have been able gradually to take over an increasing number of companies and so extend itself by an unfair advantage. 
The Opposition commends the Government and the Minister for having accepted that amendment. Had the Bill in the first place been doing what was claimed in the second reading speech of the Minister this amendment would not have been necessary because the provision would have been in existence. It is worth pointing out again that this Bill was introduced less than a month ago. These are the kinds of problem which we have unearthed. I do believe that when the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  examines other points which we have raised- quite understandably the Special Minister of State has sidestepped quite neatly many of these problems and one does not blame him because they are complex- I would fully expect to find that the Government will make other amendments if it really means what it says when it says that the AGIC will be in fair competition with private industry. 
-With respect to clause 18, 1 just wish to observe that the disclosure obligations are quite inadequate. They are certainly not in accordance with those which would apply to a corporation which would be subject to a State Companies Act. One would have thought that if there were to be fair competition this clause would have been redrafted to conform with the Companies Act. 
Clauses 29 to 3 1 relate to the appointment of staff. I should like to ask the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  whether the Government intends the Australian Government Insurance Corporation to take actuarial advice from the Life Insurance Commissioner. If so, would the Minister please reconsider this because the Life Insurance Commissioner would have access to a great deal of confidential information. There ought to be a limitation on the appointment of the Life Insurance Commissioner or any of his staff who may be actuaries. The Bill ought to oblige the AGIC to obtain independent actuarial advice in the same manner as insurance companies. 
In relation to clause 32, I believe that the AGIC should actually pay to the Australian Government each year the amounts of the contributions, which would be required from the AGIC if it were obliged to provide for benefits to its employees pursuant to the Superannuation Act 1922-1974. The importance of this, again, is to ensure fair competition. Companies are obliged to do this and sometimes pay up to 40 per cent of their annual wages bill. So, unless the AGIC is to have an unfair cost advantage then it should be similarly obliged to pay an amount calculated in that fashion to the Australian Government. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 33. 
1 ) Subject to section 1 4, in the conduct of the business of the Office, the Board shall act in accordance with sound commercial principles. 
The Board shall, at such intervals as are prescribed, cause to be made an actuarial investigation of the life insurance business of the Office. 
-I refer to clause 34, which deals with the financial POliCy of the Corporation. That financial policy would conform more closely to the position in the private insurance companies if clause 34 were amended to ensure that the Board pursues the policy of making a profit that is comparable with sound commercial enterprises, that is, make a reasonable return to the Australian Government on all the funds employed in the operation of the business of insurance of a commercial nature. I am leaving the national disaster area out of it. The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has an absolute right at the moment to determine the percentage return on capital which may be made and he may make a determination which is absurdly low. That would give an unfair advantage to the Australian Government Insurance Corporation over the private companies. The importance of the term 'capital' is that the capital is, as has been pointed out several times by Government spokesmen, a very low figure. So if the return under clause 34 is to be calculated only on capital it would be hardly comparable with what private companies have to comply with. If, however, the return were to be calculated on the funds employed it would include not just the capital but also all future borrowings from the Treasurer. That is a fairer way as far as a comparison is concerned. 
Turning to clauses 36 and 37, 1 wish to point out that again to be quite fair and again to be comparable the AGIC should pay interest on all moneys borrowed by it, irrespective of whether it borrows from the Government or otherwise, and that it should pay the interest at rates which are paid for the time being by the insurance companies. In his second reading speech the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  said that the long term bond rate would be the guide. It is worth pointing out that the Bill itself is silent on the rate of interest and it is quite conceivable that no interest need be charged. 
Even if it were commensurate with the long term bond rate the AGIC would have a big advantage over the private insurance companies because the market rates are almost always substantially higher than the long term bond rate. I am sure that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  concurs in that. Moreover, as I have mentioned, the Bill is silent and the Treasurer could really have an absolute discretion to waive the payment of interest at all. Equally the terms of repayment are unlimited. The Treasurer has an absolute discretion. The terms of repayment could be made very generous. Again one would have thought that they should have been made in commercial terms. Sub-clause (5) of clause 37 permits the Treasurer to guarantee the payment of moneys borrowed. Not even the Australian Industry Development Corporation has a provision like that in its legislation. Not even the AIDC has a guarantee from the Treasurer in respect of the payment of moneys borrowed. The mere fact that the AGIC is a government body and has the word ' Government ' in its title gives it a credit status that means that it is impossible really in the strict sense for it to be quite comparable and competitive with private insurance companies, but at least the Government could go so far as to remove the guarantee. One could make the same comments in relation to clause 38, which also provides for a blanket guarantee. It is distinctly unfair as far as competition is concerned. 
A lot has been said about re-insurance. Reinsurance is strictly unnecessary for the AGIC while it has a Government guarantee behind it. Re-insurance is a very important commercial discipline in which insurance companies must indulge. It is one way of assessing their risks and making sure that they are operating on sound commercial principles. It would appear as though the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  is sceptical. He must at least concede that with a guarantee behind it the AGIC would not even have to indulge in re-insurance, as it has the whole lot. It is worth observing that clause 42 - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The Committee has not reached clause 42 yet. The Committee is dealing with clauses 34 to 41. 
I wish to make a brief comment,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I believe that clause 42, even as amended, provides a lesser obligation than is imposed upon companies by the uniform companies Acts and I think it ought to be pointed out as another example of unfairness between the 2 bodies. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of the Bill- by leave- taken as a whole. 
-With regard to clause 43, we now have the situation where the Australian Government Insurance Corporation is subject to the Insurance Acts and the Life Insurance Act. I would have thoughtand I leave it with the Minister because I have not looked at it very carefully- that there is no need now for the Treasurer to have the power of approval conferred by clause 43. If it remains, it seems to me it would be possible for the Treasurer to veto the requirements which exist under the Acts which we have now adopted by virtue of the amendment to clause 15. If those were negated, the AGIC would still have a great advantage over the insurance companies and there could well be, by way of clause 43 as it now stands, a conflct between that clause and the Life Insurance Act to which it refers. It seems unnecessary, in the interests of fair competition, for the Treasurer to be able to approve of a lesser statutory reserve- a lesser ratio between assets and liabilities- than is set out in the Insurance Acts and it may well be that clause 43, as it now stands, does enable the Treasurer to do that. That would certainly need to be examined when this matter goes to the Senate. 
With respect to clause 44, the Opposition believes that the Auditor-General should be required to certify whether all charges are properly made and paid for. This clause should expressly require a detailed audit and should confine the Auditor-General's discretion to actions which accord with auditing principles generally approved by registered company auditors in Australia. Moreover, the Auditor-General must be empowered to inspect all records regarding all transactions and dealings between the AGIC and any Australian Government entity. It is in the interests of fair competition that this should be so. 
In respect of clause 45, again to be sure that competition is fair, in this instance regarding the question of taxation, the Bill ought to make any activities of the AGIC incidental to insurance- I think particularly of investment- liable to taxation in the same way as incidental activities of private companies are liable to taxation. Another matter to which  Senator Wheeldon  has referred is fire brigade charges. I think he indicated he was happy to have the AGIC liable for those. It is no small figure; I think it is $66m. It is a very high figure at any rate. That is just something that  Senator Wheeldon  has indicated his support for but it is not clear on the face of the Bill. 
Clause 46 is about as vexed as clause 14 but I do not believe we would benefit by having any further discussion on it at this stage. Needless to say, it is a problem for the industry and it will remain a problem as long as clause 14 is as ambiguous as it is. Clause 47 concerns the annual report of the Corporation and, as Government operations are notoriously slow in reporting, one would have thought that the same obligation ought to be placed on the Corporation as is applied to companies; that is, that it should report no later than 5 months after 30 June. We have examples of the slowness of Government bodies. The Commonwealth Brickworks is one that springs to mind. It still has not produced its 1973-74 annual report; it is still not forthcoming. One would have thought that the requirement to report would have been comparable with the obligation on private companies. 
Finally, it should be said that something which is not covered by the Bill at all, but which would be appropriate for the Bill to cover, is a provision to ensure that the AGIC is placed in the same position as any insurance company requiring any Reserve Bank or Treasury requirements for overseas borrowings or overseas transactions. That may be the Minister's intention. It will certainly be interesting to hear his reply. If that is not the case, and the Bill certainly does not provide for it, it leaves the Corporation with a substantial advantage over companies engaged in overseas borrowing or overseas business. 
I wish to speak on a matter which has caused great consternation and violence in our very harmonious country. I refer to the recent granting of visas to members of the Palestine Liberation Organisation. It had been my intention to speak on this matter in the grievance debate last Thursday, but time did not permit me to speak. I do wish, however, to endorse fully the speech made by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  in that debate. I am very happy to support both his reasons and his opinions. I regard my speech tonight as a personal reaffirmation of his position. 
Australia has citizens of Arab and Jewish origins and living most harmoniously with one another. They feel certain ancestral allegiances in the same way as Celts, such as myself, feel a sentimental cultural attachment to the land of their forefathers. But they feel and act primarily as citizens of Australia. It is, therefore, most regrettable that the recent violence which has marred our campuses should have arisen. It has not been confined merely to our campuses. It has been viewed on television in homes throughout Australia. Most Australians believe strongly in free speech; but there is a difference between free speech and allowing into Australia persons whose charter contains the integral aim of destroying a country which we recognise as a sovereign state. 
Australia has a legal and a moral obligation to support Israel's right to exist. Australians of Arab origin support that, as do Australians of other origins. Equally, most Australians who have interested themselves in events in the Middle East believe that a solution to the vexed problems of that region necessarily will include the creation of a state of Palestine. Australians of Jewish origin also believe that. But, however the lines on the map may be drawn, the states of Israel and Palestine must exist together and respect each other's territorial integrity. Israel's recent combatants- Egypt and Syria- appear to be ready to accept that idea. If detente is to mean anything, so should the Soviet Union. It is, therefore, essential to peace in the Middle East and to world peace that the PLO be forced to moderate its aim of destroying Israel. The concept of a state of Israel is something from which the world should not run. Discussion about precise boundaries will be possible only after the PLO has accepted that fact. 
By allowing the PLO to send representatives to Australia to preach the right of Palestine to exist in lieu of Israel, the Australian Government has encouraged the PLO to think that Australia might withdraw her support for the right of Israel to exist. Australia should be moderating the terrorist tactics of the PLO, not encouraging them. Australia's contribution to the settlement of the Middle Eastern problems may be small, but it should be no less responsible for that. At a time when our ANZUS partner, the United States of America, is trying to maintain a fragile detente, it is irresponsible for the Australian Government to do anything which might undermine the progress of the United States towards peace. We find that the Government has granted visas to representatives of the PLO to preach a doctrine of hate and to cause violence and disruption of a kind which is common elsewhere but which could and should be avoided in Australia. 
Earlier in the year the Government refused visas to the PLO because it anticipated this very social disruption. Then it granted visas to the PLO students, and the Government's own worst fears were realised. Yet, in spite of the riots and violence it has granted a visa to  Mr el  Surani a senior member of the PLO. Why? The PLO is dedicated to the destruction of Israel by force. Its terrorism has not been directed merely at the Israeli Army, as the Zionists directed their terrorism against the British Army. It has been directed against women, children and persons with no involvement in the Middle East who happen to be at airports or in aircraft. It would be as logical for the Government to allow representatives of the Irish Republican Army to come here. Such a visit not only would offend the United Kingdom Government but also would sow discord amongst Catholics and Protestants in Australia, just as the PLO visits sow disruption amongst our harmonious Arab and Jewish citizens. Likewise, with the Croatian-Ustashi movement and other extremist organisations which resort to terror. Whether of the Right or the Left, they have no place in Australia. 
On 29 January 1975 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that Cabinet had decided not to grant visas to a proposed PLO delegation. The Prime Minister's reasons were: 
Because a visit at this time would exacerbate divisions within the Australian community. 
How has the situation changed? Why is this time any different from 4 months ago? On the same day, 29 January this year, at a Press conference the Prime Minister said: 
There is, however, no doubt that, at the present time, there are strong feelings on the Middle East. There is no need for people from either side to express those views in Australia. The views are quite well known in Australia and anybody in Australia is quite free to express them. 
Again I expressly endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Perth with regard to that reason. One must ask again: How has the situation changed in a mere 4 months? Now it has been presented to the Australian people as a free speech issue; but should terrorists who have attacked and slaughtered innocent civilians be granted the right of free speech, especially when their speech and their actions are aimed at the destruction of a democratic state which we sponsored and support? On 26 November 1974 the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  said in the Senate: 
We would welcome the PLO stating what we have stated several times, that is, the right of Israel to exist must be paramount in all negotiations. 
How is that policy advanced by the decision to grant visas to representatives of the PLO? Surely that stated policy of the Australian Government is undermined? Surely a just solution to the problem of the right of an independent state of Palestine to exist can be found only when the right of Israel to exist is clearly and very widely recognised? 
Yet the Government has granted visas not only to students identified with the PLO but also to  Mr el  Surani. Moreover, the Prime Minister told Parliament that he would be happy to meet  Mr el  Surani if his engagements permitted him to do so. The PLO would be foolish indeed if it did not regard that as a weakening of Australia's resolve to support the right of Israel to exist. It would be foolish if it did not present it to the world in this light. Australia thereby has lost a golden opportunity to help moderate the PLO and to bind it to a recognition of the need to negotiate with Israel on the creation of a state of Palestine. A state of Israel and a state of Palestine must live and work together for peace in the Middle East. By its sanctioning of the PLO terrorism, sky-jacking and murder, the Government has failed in its international responsibilities to help make this idea and this ideal into a reality. 
-On 3 June I spoke against the granting of visas by Australia to members of the Palestine Liberation Organisation. I did so because that body still remains committed to the destruction of Israel by force. During the parliamentary recess 2 further developments occurred which lead me to raise the matter again. First of all, a statement was made by the gentleman to whom I referred on 3 June,  Mr Gamal  el-Surani, who was the man to whom the visa was granted. In the  Age  of Saturday, 14 June, there is a report from Hobart which, in part, reads as follows: 
Palestine Liberation Organisation leader, Gamal elSurani, says only his age has prevented him from physically fighting for the PLO cause.  Mr el-Surani,  head of the PLO headquarters in Cairo, said in Hobart yesterday his role was with the organisation's political wing, and, as such, he knew nothing of the military division's activities 'until after they happened'. 
But he supported such events as the Munich Olympic Village massacre and said he regarded the PLO members who had been killed in such incidents as 'martyrs' and 'national heros' 
The report continues: 
During the Press conference he said he was 'very hopeful' of Australia opening diplomatic relations with the PLO and that his talks with Government officials on this subject had been received well. But he did not discount the possibility that if Australia refused to grant such ties it would be considered by the PLO as an enemy and open to attack. 
This ought to come as no surprise to us. It is consistent with the sort of thing said by  Mr Yasser  Arafat at the United Nations and elsewhere. There has been no denial and no accusation that that was in any way a misreporting of what  Mr el-Surani  said. He was here for quite some days after that report.  Mr el-Surani  's trip surely proved to the PLO that the Australian Government, by granting the visa, was in fact encouraging its terrorism and its policy of the destruction of the sovereign state of Israel. After having had an audience with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam) Mr el-Surani  said he was hopeful that there would soon be an office in Australia. 
The other matter which concerns me relates to the attitude of the Australian Government to the recognition of the PLO at international forums. The Government's ineptitude regarding the admission of the PLO to observer status at the United Nations and at the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation has been widely condemned for similar reasons to those which related to the granting of visas to PLO representatives. If the PLO dropped its demands for the destruction of the state of Israel all would agree that it ought to be heard. Similar action to that taken by the United Nations and UNESCO has been taken by the International 
Civil Aviation Organisation, the World Health Organisation and the World Meteorological Organisation Conference. Again in those instances Australia has taken action which encouraged rather than moderated the PLO policy for the destruction of Israel. 
At the International Labour Organisation Conference in Geneva on 12 June this year the Austraiian Government voted for a motion to allow liberation movements recognised by the Organisation of African Unity and the League of Arab States to attend the conference. The PLO, being one of the liberation movements recognised by the OAU and by the League of Arab States, was able to attend and participate in the deliberations of the International Labour Organisation Conference while still being pledged to destroy a member of the ILO, namely, Israel. The motion as it was put before the conference was subject to considerable debate.  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, along with union delegates from other democratic countries, moved an amendment requiring that all those seeking admission to the ILO should agree to abide by the rules and principles of the ILO. One would not think that that was an unreasonable request. 
This would have enabled the PLO and Israel to co-exist at the ILO. But that also would have required that the PLO drop its demand about the destruction of an ILO member, Israel. The Australian Government, to its eternal shame, accepted the report recommending the admission of the PLO to the ILO. The Australian Government delegate explained the vote in words which are very far from being explanatory. He stated: 
The Australian Government delegation had hoped that it would have been possible for what has been referred to as a compromise formula to have emerged either in the committee or at this Plenary Session so that this matter could have been adopted by an overwhelming consensus which would have recognised the principles which were embodied in the compromise proposals which were under discussion. This did not prove possible, and therefore my delegation voted in favour of each of the proposals before the Conference. 
The Australian Government, by its attitude, ran away from principle. It ran away from its own trade union movement and from the Australian Labor Party President. It also ran away from integrity. Contrast the Australian Government's attitude with the attitude of the United States Government delegate. On 21 June of this year the  New York Times  editorialised on the matter in these words: 
The American delegation walked out, calling the vote a tragic decision because the PLO was a political, not a labour, entity under the ILO chaner. And the American position was made official by Secretary of Labor John Dunlop, who had planned to address the Conference but refused to attend after the vote to seat the PLO. 
UNESCO itself has already suffered. Some of its important programs are imperiled because the United States and other concerned nations have properly resisted making contributions to the agency while it violates its mandate and tradition of nonpartisanship. 
One should add that one of the consequences of the admission of the PLO to the ILO will be that the United States again will deny its contribution to the ILO budget- its contribution, if my memory serves me correctly, is about one-quarter of the budget- and that will greatly handicap the work of that international agency, the point being that the PLO is not a labour entity and has no right at the ILO in the first place. The editorial in the  New York Times- rios  is a most important point- continued: 
The United States contributes a significant amount of funding to the specialised agencies, in some instances as much as a quarter of their total budgets. The $ 1 6m contribution to UNESCO has been held up, the $29m for WHO in next year's authorization measure has also been delayed. A large group of members of Congress have warned WHO's director-general that expulsion of Israel would undermine support and confidence in the international health organization. 
It has become clear that the Arab bloc- the greatest beneficiaries, along with the Third World nations, of UN aid and expertise- is willing to risk destruction of the specialised agencies even if this means depriving millions of people, including its own, of health, welfare, educational and other direct assistance. And too many shortsighted members of the UN, prey to Arab petro-politics, have acquiesced or abstained when the agencies are locked into positions that degrade the organisation 's charter and covenants. 
It is most important that the Australian people are given an explanation of the Austraiian Government's attitude towards the Palestine Liberation Organisation. How does the admission of the PLO to United Nations agencies advance the prospects of peace in the Middle East? How does it improve the operations of the United Nations? How does it serve Australia's national interests? How does it advance harmony within Australia? We have seen campus riots. We have had peaceful petitions to this Parliament. There have been letters to the Prime Minister which have been unheeded. The Australian people are entitled to an explanation of the Government's policy on this matter. 
-The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and other senior members of the Opposition have analysed in detail the failure of this Budget to give the necessary stimulus to the private sector of the economy. In doing so they have been more positive in saying what we would do if we were in Government now than anyone expected them to be. They have put forward a program which would revive the economy, reduce inflation and restore the employment picture. Despite warnings from virtually every sector in the economy and every organ of opinion including the Australian Council of Trade Unions and left wing economists such as  Mr Wheelwright,  the Government has pursued its own pet theories to the detriment of the private sector and therefore the economy as a whole. 
Whether the Government likes it or not, it must achieve its social reforms within the economic system that we have. The system has evolved and will continue to evolve but it is the one which we have now and it is the one which will provide a larger gross domestic product from which social welfare programs may be funded. This Government has tampered with the system without either understanding it fully or having a substitute system ready. Like our system of parliamentary democracy and federalism, our economic system has imperfections but it is still the system we will have until a better system evolves or otherwise commends itself to the electorate. 
Our present system of private ownership is not immutable. Perhaps there may be a radical change in the next couple of generations but this will occur only after debate about alternatives or after the evolution which is necessarily the result of consensus. This will not be achieved by destroying the existing system without replacing it with something capable of meeting rising and costly expectations. The nature of these expectations is changing slowly but they are not less COStlY. Yet last year the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  when presenting the Budget stated in his conclusions: 
The key note of this Budget is social progress. We are looking to create a fairer and better Australia. The year ahead will be a difficult one. The world is beset by severe economic problems. Australia cannot insulate itself from them. 
One may say parenthetically,  Mr Speaker,  that some of the statements attached to this year's Budget show that indeed Australia has been largely insulated from overseas economic problems. I refer in particular .to page 6 of the statements attached to this year's Budget.  Mr Crean  went on to say: 
The Budget, together with our other policies, is designed to make the best of things as they are in the world today- to maintain employment opportunities and to protect those who most need protection from the ravages of inflation. At the same time we are looking to the longer term- to the way Australia develops as a nation in the decades ahead. The problems immediately ahead have to be dealt with but in doing so this Government will remain steadfast in implementing its programs. 
The price of that steadfastness- that stubborn suicide- has been great for Australia in terms of unemployment, inflation, loss of great and loss of national purpose and morale. It has been traumatic for those whom it was designed to help. When presenting the first Budget of the Labor Government the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  said that he was clearing the ground for further reforms. When he presented last year's Budget it was felt generally that the honourable member for Lalor,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, had largely written the Budget and we now know that that Budget failed to grapple with the real problems of the economy. The new Treasurer,  Mr Hayden,  then had the unenviable task of trying to adopt what he calls the 'middle course' and in doing so he made a plaintive call for co-operation from the whole community. 
The Government therefore has failed to provide the responsible lead which economic advice from across the entire spectrum told them must be taken. The Government has made gestures rather than taken substantive measures. It has introduced a restructured tax scale but has taken the benefits away by not coping with inflation. Several newspapers described the Budget, the day after its introduction, as 'a matter of give and take'. It. has been ably demonstrated by previous speakers just how false are the so called benefits contained in the Budget. For example, the total cost to the Government of the taxation concessions is offset by the total gain to the Government of the increased excise on beer. Likewise the benefit to industry of reduced company taxation is offset by the increased cost of fuel used by industry. 
The 3 Labor Budgets show an old-fashioned philosophy behind Labor policy. I am not denying that some of the ideas in Labor's social program are reformist. On appropriate occasions in this House and elsewhere I have indicated my support for many of Labor's social objectives but I have indicated also my disagreement with the means adopted to achieve these objectives. The means adopted is that which underlies the welfare state in Britain and is really a form of outmoded government paternalism. That paternalism has raised the Government to a position of superiority over those whom it is supposed to represent and to serve. 
It is paradoxical that when in individual families wives and children are rejecting the notion that father knows best the Labor Government is acting as though it knows best. It justifies this by claiming that it has a mandate for everything it does. The political reality is that after 23 years of government by one coalition the people of Australia decided that they wanted a change. There were perfectly understandable reasons why they should feel that way and there were some attractive features of Labor Party policy. But it is impracticable in a general election campaign for political parties- especially those in Opposition, as Labor then was- to spell out in detail the precise way in which they will introduce their programs and assess the costs of their programs. Electors therefore have to make continuing judgments about the performance of the Government they elect and the Government has no right to assume that because the electorate endorses the aims of the Government it necessarily endorses the means by which the Government is prepared to achieve those aims or to underwrite the costs. 
This is a point which the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his Government have steadfastly refused to acknowledge. As a result, there is a decreasing capacity of industry to reinvest because, as was illustrated by the Mathews Committee report, companies are virtually transferring huge sums from their resources to the Government in order that employees may have a real increase in wages which is commensurate with increased cost of living due to inflation. It is a crazy merry-go-round in which the Government is the only entity in the community not suffering a loss of income. To pacify industry and the unions in the short term, the Government makes concessions, such as its submissions on wage indexation and its platitudes about the role of the private sector. It has made revaluations of our currency and tariff cuts which have affected industry adversely. It has then made temporary assistance available to some industries and thenemployees in order to protect them from these measures. All the time however, the Government has been determined to gain control of key sectors in the economy in order to pursue its brand of socialism. 
While the Prime Minister's views have been set out in some writings- such as the Chifley Memorial Lecture in 1967- the majority of people are unaware of the extent to which this Government wishes to dominate the most important economic areas. At first the Government was given the benefit of the doubt and was described as incompetent but now it must be said that not even this Government is so incompetent that it can express support for the private sector, analyse the problems in the economy fairly accurately and still not take any genuine action to rectify these problems. Such a government is not merely incompetent but is stubbornly determined to destroy the large companies- both Australian and overseas owned- upon which our economy is dependent. 
Debates in this Parliament have referred to the damage done to the mining and transport industries and the changing policies of this Government towards the automotive industry and its component parts industry/There has also been much discussion and criticism of other sectors of the economy, such as those affected by the 2 airlines agreement, which have been the subject of the Government's prejudices. The question resolved itself when the Mathews Committee considered the matter and discovered that industry was unable to keep up with its further debts. This is the reason why the Opposition believes that the Mathews Committee recommendations should be implemented. 
Above all, industry requires the confidence of knowing that the Government of the day recognises the role which the private sector plays and also that Government demonstrates that it genuinely wishes the private sector to play the major role in employment and economic growth. After this Budget no one in industry, whether large, medium or small, can doubt that the Government is hostile to industry and does not intend to adopt policies which will assist industry to restore the economy to its proper state of health. It is not good enough for the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who preceded me in this debate, to say that industry should have confidence in the Government. Neither industry nor individuals require the meddlesome paternalism which this Government offers. 
With increased education, greater affluence and rising expectations, the Government does not know best how individual citizensindividual taxpayers- wish to spend their money or live their lives. This Government wishes to regulate the activities of both companies and individuals and this is as objectionable as would be a return to laissez faire capitalism. We all recognise that governments have properly increased their involvement in all affairs of society, but the difference between the Government and the Opposition is that we wish that government involvement to protect as far as possible the limited range of choices which is open to individuals. By increased public spending the range of choices is becoming still more limited, partly because individuals have less money in their pockets and partly because the Government wishes to do their thinking and spending for them. That philosophy is as outmoded as is the philosophy of capitalism to which it was responding when first formulated. 
The welfare state mentality is irrelevant in Australia today. About 70 per cent of Australians own their own homes and most Australians aspire to do so. The socio-economic system which is evolving will not be unchangeable but it will be changed by a far greater demonstration of public will than this Government can claim to have. So far as can be ascertained from the elections, public opinion polls, political meetings, letters from constituents and letters to editors of newspapers, the majority of Australians want the Government to create the overall economic conditions which will enable them to use their education and talents to live their lives with as much choice as the network of rights and obligations in the community will allow. The old-fashioned welfare mentality with its paternalism and centralism has usefully focused public attention upon economic and political philosophies relevant to the last quarter of the twentieth century. We now see federalism as an important defensive buffer to protect citizens from exploitation, not by the capitalist system but by an elected government. 
The Government cannot claim a mandate for the effect of what it has done in this or its previous Budgets. The Government was not given a mandate for centralism or for its vindictive policies against big business which had such drastic repercussions for small business and for those employed in or dealing with all business. It does not have a mandate for the bad housekeeping and the wasteful spending which is the record of this Government. It does not have a mandate for the extra cost of beer, cigarettes, petrol, telephones and letters necessitated by the Government's programs. Debates in this Parliament on major pieces of Government legislation have queried the cost and the consequences of meeting all of these programs in this way at this time, but the Government has plunged on and has not heeded any caution. Even on the notice paper for this session of Parliament is more legislation which is entirely unwarranted both in principle and in cost. 
The Government claims to be assisting the poor but, in fact, it has not adopted the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. It is possible to assist those in relative poverty without having the expensive centralist complex of government departments which the present Government has established. At least three of the excellent reports produced by the Inquiry into Poverty are relevant to the immediate needs of those in poverty. The Government would have done better to have studied and implemented those reports than to claim that it is exempting 500 000 people from taxation because they are disadvantaged. We all know that many of those who are exempted are from relatively affluent homes but they happen to be working only part time or they have other forms of government assistance as they pursue studies of various kinds. In many cases those in the greatest need will still go unaided as a result of these taxation proposals. 
One does not need to agree with all that Professor Milton Friedman says to accept his notion that governments simply cannot spend the individual's money as well as the individual can. The Government, or its advisers, may believe that they know best, but the individual should have as much say as possible in determining how to dispose of his income or assets. How the Government thought that it was improving the plight of the disadvantaged or the general economic situation by introducing income tax concessions and then cancelling them out with indirect taxes is beyond comprehension. Perhaps those persons on a low income who do not drink, smoke, use the telephone, write letters or drive a car may benefit from this application of the consumer pays principle, but for the Government to imagine that such persons are numerous is to misunderstand human nature and is bad economics. It is at least consistent with the other examples of bad economics which litter this Government's record- Commonwealth Public Service pace setting, general expectations of all unions, 25 per cent tariff cuts, revaluation and the Prices Justification Tribunal. The combined effect of these measures when added to the public spending program of the Government has been hyper-inflation and unemployment of disturbing proportions. All of the economic advice which the Government received, including that from the Australian Council of Trade Unions, said that incentives were required for both individuals and companies, but the give and take nature of the Budget has guaranteed that the Budget will not achieve these necessary objectives. 
The Government never seems to remember that there is only one gross domestic product from which all demands can be met. Government spending and wage demands have so exceeded increases in profits and prices that for 2 years we have had the signs of the investment crisis which is now well and truly upon us. This is the kind of background against which the Treasurer made an appeal for co-operation. The kind of co-operation for which the Treasurer should be asking is the kind which will be forthcoming only when the Government adopts policies which provide the maximum incentive to all who work within the economic system. I should like to draw a contrast between that call and a call made recently by  Sir Robert  Menzies. It is fashionable for this Government to quote  Sir Robert  Menzies so I feel it may be appropriate to put into  Hansard  some words which  Sir Robert  said in his most recent political speech on 1 1 August 1974 on the occasion of the conferring upon him of the freedom of the city of Kew. I think the essential message of the speech is worth noting by the public. He said: 
What is needed today is not some economist 's theories but a great mood of unselfishness in our country- a great realisation in our country that unless we are prepared to be on the list of contributories we can complain not a bit of other people who pursue selfish interests. Now that means, of course, and I think that this is a fair thing to say, that an economic crisis of the kind that we are contemplating is a moral crisis for the citizen. It must give him furiously to think. He must more and more realise that unless he is prepared to make a little sacrifice, to withhold a little of the claim that he is making, to restrict the advantage that he seeks, unless he is prepared to do that then he cannot expect that anybody else will. And if there is one thing that can bring us down it would be unbridled greed on the part of all sections of the community. I don't believe for a moment that Australians need very much to be reminded of this. 
I was sustained in my political life for over 20 years by one firm belief and that was that the vast majority of the Australian people are good and decent people. This was a thing that sustained me. Otherwise I wouldn't have bothered about politics. You don't go into politics in order to play a game on behalf of this group or that group and with no idealism in you. But when you know that your people are decent people then you owe them, in your turn, decency, an appeal to decency, an appeal to moderation. You know, I think it was the Apostle Paul who said that 'we are all members of one another'. It is a lovely phrase you know. It is a lovely expression. It means that no man lives to himself, that every man who lives in a community is a member of that community. He shares his membership with other people in it and, political friend or political foe, he owes them every good thing that he can contribute to the life of the country. 
I think that is a very important expression from  Sir Robert  Menzies because it points to the type of co-operation that a Treasurer of this country today should be calling for, not co-operation based on lavish public spending programs designed to make the community more and more dependent upon the Government. 
I endorse the comments of the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock).  I agree with him that it is most regrettable that the debate on this subject should have been clouded as it has been with the acrimonious argument about the nature of Australia's grants to Papua New Guinea. I also endorse the comment of the honourable member for Kooyong that it is not justifiable for Australia to include in its aid grant a sum of money which will largely be spent by Australians in Australia. I think that when we are talking about the quantity of Australia 's aid that we have nothing great to brag about with respect to our contributions to Papua New Guinea or our foreign aid program as a whole. I also endorse the original remarks of the honourable member for Kooyong when he gave credit to the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  for his role when he was Prime Minister. It was an important role and not the least of the important decisions he made was the appointment of  Mr Les  Johnson as Administrator of Papua New Guinea. This was a major factor in the peaceful transition to self-government and then to independence. 
Another major factor, as will be seen by historians, in the transition was the rapport which was developed between the honourable member for Kooyong when he was Minister for External Territories and the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Somare.  It was a major factor in bringing about the peaceful atmosphere in which the transition took place. This is not an occasion, however, for major congratulations to persons in this Parliament or in the administration in Canberra. As the honourable member for Kooyong pointed out, it is certainly not an occasion for congratulation of the Labor Party. I recall very vividly living and working in Papua New Guinea in 1965 when the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  went to a seminar at Goroka and was highly provocative as far as the people of Papua New Guinea were concerned when he said that he would be shocked if Papua New Guinea did not have independence by 1970. That reckless statement caused enormous perturbation throughout the Territory. The fact is that the Labor Party has always wanted to overlook the history of Australia 's involvement in Papua New Guinea. Whether on hindsight we now think it was an appropriate relationship is quite irrelevant to the responsibilities which governments have and which alternative governments have. It was a constant theme in Labor Party proposals for Papua New Guinea that it was an embarrassment to have so-called colonial rule. It was the prime motivation for expediting the program for self-government and independence rather than any thoughts of the welfare of Papua New Guinea. 
There was a statement made earlier by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  by way of interjection criticising the slow rate of progress made by previous LiberalCountry Party government. In my opinion there was much to criticise about some of the previous decisions, but it certainly was important to see historically that the policy of  Mr Hasluck,  now  Sir Paul  Hasluck, was a POliCy of gradualism. It was soundly based. The discussion which has to some extent gone on in this debate has overlooked that fact. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  said that there would continue to be on the part of Australia substantial and significant amounts of aid to Papua New Guinea. So there should. The Minister also said that this represents the largest proportion of our foreign aid grants. So it should and so it should continue to be. The adequacy of our total foreign aid is quite a different question but, regardless of total aid, our aid to Papua New Guinea must be quantitatively high. 
I agree with the Minister who said that we expect Papua New Guinea to form other friends. Of course it Will and it will get other sources of aid. So it should. We in Australia must expect that there Will be a period in which Papua New Guinea will follow the experiences of other colonial or semi-colonial countries in forming friends away from its former colonial master but in time I think it is fair to expect that our relationship with Papua New Guinea will be one of a special nature. The Minister made some play of the significance of Australia not being a colonial power any longer. I have mentioned the curious history that has surrounded Australia 's involvement in Papua New Guinea. I do not think even the judgment we would make with hindsight would justify the beating of a very hasty retreat and certainly would not justify any attitude of the future which would in any way downgrade our moral and material responsibilities there. 
If names are to be named- the Minister did mention some- one ought to note the irony of the fact that in today's newspapers there was reported the death of  Sir Donald  Cleland who was for 14 years the Administrator of Papua New Guinea. He was part of a long Une of administrators, going back to  Sir Hubert  Murray. 
I think it is most fitting that in this Parliament we pay tribute to the Australian men and women who were on the field staff. Having stayed and worked with them over a 3-year period I may say that these people often worked with enormous handicaps inspired by Canberra- not always from the ministerial side, but certainly from the bureaucratic side. The recent difference between Australia and Papua New Guinea which has been the subject of debate between the Minister for Defence and the shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs has been most regrettable. It is a shame that the matter has clouded this debate. There ought not to be a repetition of that in any further dealings between the 2 countries. We do have that special relationship and that moral obligation. 
All that we can do today is to send our best wishes and the best wishes of the Australian people to  Mr Somare  and his Government. Papua New Guinea and Australia are lucky that it was  Mr Somare  's coalition which came to power and that they did not remain in opposition. Had they done so, regardless of the sensitivity of the now shadow Minister- the former Minister- it would not have been possible to have brought about this same peaceful transition with this speed. In 1964 when the first House of Assembly was established some of those who are now in the Cabinet were then emerging as young leaders. Some of them were then in the Cabinet. But the country, with its huge problems certainly is in the best possible hands. All Australians will wish the people of Papua New Guinea well and will expect that wish to be backed by appropriate Government assistance at all times. 
-Clause 7 states that the function of the Corporation is to act both as principal and as agent and it is to be concerned with trade of a kind that cannot be, or is not being, adequately maintained and developed by ordinary commercial enterprise. One has to ask: Who judges the adequacy of existing trade or potential trade? By what criteria are we examining ordinary commercial enterprise? It ill-becomes this Government which has adopted a number of policies which are opposed to the wellbeing of enterpriselarge, medium and small- to say that it is now going to give out to enterprise a series of handouts by assisting it with some sort of machinery to advance, develop and maintain export trade. 
We have heard tonight that small business will benefit greatly from this operation. We have heard reference to economies of scale. The references which we have heard tonight and which were contained in the Minister's second reading speech indicate again that this Government is talking of commercial matters without the embarrassment of knowing anything about them. If the manufacturer has a product he is already using existing commercial trading houses, both import and export, and he does not require another piece of mechanism. Of course, the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association has said that this legislation would enable it to advance consortia. There are some bodies which would be glad to have the Government to do the work for them, to set up the apparatus for them; but the average able manufacturer or trader knows that if he has not the staff, the size and the potential to develop and export his own product to markets there are experts available in the private sector to do it for him. This so-called economies of scale principle is only one aspect of export viability, and when it is applied to a manufacturer who is too small to export the relativity of the economy of scale is correspondingly small and has very little to do with his real contribution to our export growth. 
It is well worth noting that, while clause 7 sets out the very estimable general functions of the Corporation, in fact there are only five or six clauses which embellish the thoughts contained in clause 7; the rest of the 20-odd pages of the Bill is concerned largely with the establishment of a large administration to compound the bureaucratic errors of the past. Most of the Australian manufacturing enterprises which would benefit primarily as a result of this legislation- I say 'primarily' because most of the rural people already have boards which are able to conduct themselves without interference from the Overseas Trading Corporation- already have begun to utilise the previously existing export incentives, and in their more truncated form the existing export incentives, to find their own markets. They do not require the assistance of an Overseas Trading Corporation. If the Government is establishing a mechanism allegedly to provide some know-how, then the manufacturers will make some use of it; but if private enterprise is worthy of support it does not require this kind of crutch. We in the Opposition believe that private enterprise has the wherewithal to get out and find its own markets. 
It has been said in support of the functions set out in clause 7 that the New Zealand experience is something worth following. In the  Canberra Times  of Wednesday, 13 August of this year, there was a reference to the operation of the corresponding New Zealand body. But what appears from that article is that the New Zealand exporters are relying upon the supply of information which is useful to large and small companies. That supply of information, of course, is available to Australian exporters through the Australian Trade Commissioner Service. One would have thought that if the Australian Government felt that the supply of information for Australian exporters or potential exporters was deficient there could have been an expansion of the Trade Commissioner Service rather than the creation of yet another bureaucracy at a time when we are concerned allegedly with restraining public spending. 
Another point that has been made about the New Zealand type of operation is that it can carry overheads and can provide on the spot services in Australia. In the case of overheads, the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  has complained about the old form of export incentives on the basis that they were a form of subsidy for exports; yet in fact by this measure he is introducing another form of subsidy. It is a form of subsidy which, like so many other measures of the present Government, is creating a notion of dependency on the part of those who receive it. If Australian manufacturers, large, medium or small, are unable to use the existing private sector trading operations then they are unable to make any substantial contribution to Australia's export earnings and the functions of the Corporation in relation to imports is in many ways offensive to the operations of Australian industry. 
In short, what is required is on the spot services, advice and economic intelligence, but this can be obtained now through the quite adequate services of the Department of Overseas Trade in its Trade Commissioner Service. I understand that there is some battle between the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Overseas Trade over the role, status and function of the Trade Commissioner Service. If that is so it is to be lamented. It certainly is very important that Australian businessmen have the expert advice of trade commissioners when they go to find a market and it is nice to get the introduction. This is important. It is much more important than having another cumbersome mechanism. 
Clause 7 (1) states: 
The function of the Corporation is to engage in overseas trade, both as principal and as agent, with the object of ensuring the maintenance and expansion of overseas trade and, in particular, overseas trade of a kind that cannot be, oris not being, adequately maintained and developed by ordinary commercial enterprise. 
Nowhere in this Bill do we have the criteria on which that is to be judged. Nowhere is there any guide as to the adequacy of the terms of overseas trade, potential or existing. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
-There are a number of things one would like to say in answer to what was said by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan).  First of all, I state that he has certainly misrepresented the Opposition's policy just as he has misrepresented the record of the Government. He mentioned the intervention by the Government in cases before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. One of the sad facts is that the Government has not used the power which it has to intervene. When it has intervened in such cases before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, it has promised a package which included tax measures and other economic management measures which can be taken by the Government. It has therefore committed itself to support the guidelines of the Commission but it has, in fact, failed to do so by the use of its fiscal, monetary and taxation powers. It is most important that if the Government intervenes m a national wage case or other general standards case, it has something to say and that it then acts in a way consistent with what it says, especially if the tribunal has taken up its recommendations as it did in the national wage case. The Minister also responded to the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  by saying that we had asserted that there were limits on our legislative capacity or the desirability of legislation in this area. Of course there are. Let me deal with what the Minister said about our alleged industrial sanctions policy. We do not highlight the sanctions policy because our order of emphasis is, properly, the dispute settling procedures, conciliation, arbitration and ultimately sanctions. It was very interesting to note that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  intervened when the Minister was speaking and suggested a form of sanctions for the misconduct in this debate. We know that sanctions are very much a fundamental part of human behaviour. But we also know that in the field of industrial relations- I wish to make this point quite clear- the Opposition is not advocating a form of legislation which in all possible circumstances binds the Industrial Court which is charged with the imposition of sanctions for breach of the award or agreement. We see- I also wish to make this point very clear- a fundamental obligation on both the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the Industrial Court to act in an industrial relations framework and not in a legal framework. We recognise that it is their obligation to prevent and settle industrial disputes. Therefore, it is incumbent upon us to ensure that under any legislation of this Parliament the Industrial Court has an appropriate discretion. As the Minister well knows, there was a period when this was not so and there was mayhem as a result. 
The whole idea of our policy on the question of industrial sanctions is for the Industrial Relations Bureau to present the Industrial Court with all the information relevant to a dispute then before the Court.. No Government can legislate in such a way as to bind the Court as to the way in which it should act. The Court is obliged to consider the past and future industrial relations between the parties. It has to have regard to the future relations between them. It has to consider the repercussions of imposing or not imposing sanctions. It is not for this Parliament to tell the Industrial Court what to do when it comes to that stage of proceedings. There is a community ambivalence, which the Minister has not fully recognised in his speech but which I am sure he understands to be the case, in regard to these matters. There are cases in which the community does expect sanctions to be applied. Equally, there are cases in which the imposition of sanctions aggravates industrial relations. It is up to the Court to decide when the imposition of sanctions would aggravate the position. It is important to recognise that whilst the public has a remarkable tolerance in regard to strike action, our policy recognises that strike action is a fact of life and that it is appropriate on occasions to draw attention to bad industrial relations. 
We recognise that the Industrial Court must look behind the technical breach and must look to all the circumstances to see why strike action has been persisted with even if the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission has been dealing with the dispute. It is important then that we have a policy which is capable of meeting the community's expectations as well as satisfying the community's tolerance. The Government may be prepared to have a situation in which there are no industrial sanctions, a situation which would harm the public interest. We are not prepared to have that situation. In our industrial policy, employment policies, wages policies, investment policies and government spending policies are all linked together. It is a matter of sound economic management. This has been well and truly traversed in the Budget debate. Constructive criticism has been coming from the Opposition. The Government cannot afford the embarrassing escalation of working days lost through industrial disputes. In 1972, man days lost through industrial disputes totalled 2 million. In 1974 the number of days lost through industrial disputes had increased to 6.3 million man days. Over 90 per cent of the days lost have been as a result of wage demands. Yet during that 2-year period until March 1975, average weekly male earnings rose by 47.7 per cent. Despite that, we have had great industrial unrest. 
There is one other matter that should be mentioned in relation to the Minister's allegations concerning our policy on secret ballots. The information which we have obtained shows that in 73 per cent of the 126 elections conducted by the Industrial Registrar for which details are available, more than 50 per cent of the ballot papers issued were returned. In 34 of those cases or 27 per cent of those elections, 50 per cent or less of the ballot papers were returned. So the existing law is not as harsh as it is painted by the Government. It has satisfied 73 per cent of elections conducted by the Industrial Registrar. It is important that it is recognised that an industrial relations framework requires sound economic management. I suggest that anyone seriously interested in the question of industrial relations pick up a copy of the Opposition's program and does not merely accept the Minister's interpretation of our industrial relations policy as being an accurate one. It will be seen that we have the most positive and detailed programs which would accompany our economic management programs. 
For example, we will be encouraging the mobility of employees, recognising the most important principle of the portability of benefits. We will make a systematic attack on the employment position, recognising the need for generous contributions to those who wish to work and cannot find employment, and taking a tougher attitude towards those who are able to work but are not prepared to do so. We have a 5-point program aimed at improving access to job information. Even the poor beleaguered clothing industry at present has a number of positions unfilled for which nobody is applying. We will vigorously implement training and retraining schemes. We all know the anomalies and injustices which have stemmed from the famous National Employment and Training scheme. The Minister avoids the fact that the NEAT scheme contains other forms of discrimination which the Government is pledged to remove. The NEAT scheme is especially discriminatory against married women. This is something which we certainly would not tolerate in any of our programs. We have programs to provide government assistance for relocation, assistance with housing and the introduction of relief work. We have a most detailed program which, if the Minister cared to consider it dispassionately, would make a great improvement to the existing policy or shambles of policies of the Government. 
In addition- and quite apart from what may appear to be sloganeering- we have a great deal of detail worked out in terms of major programs for the creation of equal opportunities for work, for removing discrimination in employment, but not by legislation tampering with decisions of the Commission, for training and retraining and for union and management training. We have supported most enthusiastically the trade union training programs and we wish to have extensive corresponding management training programs. We too have well thought out programs for manpower planning, job restructuring, productivity improvement, and in plant, communication, and machinery, advice to people about improved practices elsewhere and improved industrial safety. One could go on and on. This is a most positive policy and in marked contrast to the Government's policy and practice. 
I do not wish to take very long to make a point about clause 10. 1 should perhaps repeat what I said the other night, that this Australian Overseas Trading Corporation in the opinion of the Opposition is not necessary. But if one looks at clause 10 one sees a conflict between its wording and the statement by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  in his second reading speech. In the roneoed copy of that speech at page 7 he states: 
The safeguards written into the Bill for the private sector are quite explicit. The Corporation would not be empowered to export goods to a market where commercial trading houses had an established and continuing trade in those goods to that market. 
It is important to stress that the Minister said that the Corporation would not be empowered to export goods to a market where commercial trading houses had an established and continuing trade in those goods to that market. But that is not the wording of clause 10, which refers to a particular importer in another country. That does not mean market. It refers to goods of that kind to that importer in that country. There is no reason why the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation could not use another importer. The Minister may have an explanation for this but most genuinely I cannot see that clause 10, as worded, conforms with what the Minister said in his second reading speech. 
Also, if one looks at the exceptions to those general provisions one sees in clause 10. ( 1) (b) that this shall be the case unless the importer in that other country prefers to deal with the Corporation rather than with a private commercial dealer. I would think that this means that it would not be difficult for the Overseas Trading Corporation to persuade an importer in another country, whether the same or a different importer, that it would be beneficial to the importer to deal with the Corporation rather than with a private commercial house in Australia and therefore he could come within the exception contemplated in clause 10. If my understanding of those words is correct it really makes a mockery of the so-called safeguards to which the Minister referred in his second reading speech. If that is a safeguard it is a strange way of providing the safeguard which the various export and trade organisations who saw the Minister thought they were obtaining when they got undertakings from the Minister and his departmental officers. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in his address at the second reading stage of the Bill, said that the Australian Manufacturers Export Council, the Australian 
Chambers of Commerce and the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association were in agreement with the Bill. Indeed, in the Minister's second reading speech the Minister also implied that that was so. He certainly mentioned that consultations had occurred. It is a fact that the Australian Manufacturers Export Council and the Australian Chambers of Commerce are opposed to the Bill. It is a fact that the Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association favours the Bill. It has reasons for doing so. It is quite explicable in the nature of its industry. But I still do not believe on balance, when we weigh the advantages and disadvantages of the Bill, that it is justified to make life a little easier for one section of industry rather than considering the wellbeing of industry overall and the necessity to provide this form of assistance when commercial trading houses are established and able to look after all levels of business in Australia. It is a fact, contrary to what the Minister has said, that Australian business houses do trade with centrally planned economies, and representatives of centrally planned economies are quite content to deal with someone who knows what he is talking about. With due respect to public servants, they cannot be as knowledgeable- persons to be employed by the Australian Overseas Trading Corporation cannot be as knowledgeable- as those who are in commerce for their livelihood and who have the experience which Australian and the other commercial houses operating in, to and through Australia have. 
It is so important that we do not set up at great cost to the taxpayer at this time when we are all told that we should be saving money, yet another organisation which does not even on the face of the Bill do what is claimed for it. The exception to which I have referred contained in clause 10(1) (b) should be read in conjunction with clause 8 ( 1 ) (a) on which we chose not to speak and which is concerned about the importing of goods. If that is coupled with the power to act as principal, the power to acquire ownership of goods, to import and to export, one sees that the Bill does not provide safeguards for industry at all. 
I think that industry and all who are concerned with the costs of establishing this body and the types of powers it will have are entitled to an explanation of whether this is just another example of meddling. I know that the Minister will say that in clause 10 (3) there is a provision for administrative appeals. The Minister also mentioned this in his second reading speech. One wonders whose brilliant idea this really was. Are traders now, having had imposed upon them a trading corporation which they do not want, to employ additional staff to watch the activities of the Overseas Trading Corporation to see whether they come within the fairly generous exceptions to the general statement on so-called safeguards? Are they now to watch everything the Corporation does and to start to lodge appeals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal? This legislation is in every way a most undesirable and unnecessary imposition on the Australian public. 
-Let me say briefly that I overlooked that one of the amendments moved by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  which seeks to remove the words 'a particular importer'. While.that certainly cures part of what I am referring to, it does not answer my remarks in respect of clause 10(l)(b). 
-I wonder whether the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr Crean)  could explain the purpose of clause 12, sub-clause (2), paragraph (a). Clause 12 reads: 
) Subject to this section, this Act does not authorise the Corporation to engage in the production or manufacture of goods. 
It continues: 
Sub-section (1) does not prevent the Corporation from- 
arranging for the production or manufacture by other persons of goods for the purposes of its overseas trade. 
I am sure that, in the light of his comments on the last amendments, the Minister has a purpose behind this provision. I would very much like to hear what the Minister envisages happening. What does strike one from the comment by the Minister on clause 10 is that he is talking of a belief. He said 'our belief '. Well, with respect to the Government's belief, there is no talk of a feasibility study. The Minister quite rightly pointed out in his remarks on the last amendments that the preponderance of our very small trade with the Middle East and the centrally planned economies is in bulk commodities. But the Minister would be aware, from export award presentations and from the statistics, that a great number of very small manufacturing companies are penetrating these markets, in their opinion as fast as it is commercially feasible to do so. Can the Minister explain whether anything resembling a feasibility study has been carried out or whether it is just a statement of belief by the Government that there ought to be a potential there and whether clause 12 (2) (a) is in some way related to that? 
The Minister has said before- I was critical of this assertion last Thursday when this matter was debated- that part of the Corporation's functions would be to assist small business. That seems rather strange, as small business has in many respects an ample market here and can use existing trading houses. One wonders whether clause 12 (2) (a) would be one of the ways in which small business might be commissioned to do certain things. I do not know. The Minister may be able to throw some light upon it. 
I would like to raise another matter with the Minister. In his second reading speach he spoke about the possibility of barter. I doubt whether he seriously sees very much barter trading being carried on. He referred to different methods of trading. Does he seriously envisage that the Overseas Trading Corporation would be involved in barter trade? If so, in those circumstances how would the tariff be applied? How could the value for duty of an import be measured in terms of barter instead of the current method of valuation? The other point of a general nature is that again the means of introducing small business to the markets which we have not penetrated exist through the Trade 
Commissioner Service of the Department. I believe that more than just a statement of belief is necessary. I would be interested to hear what the Minister has to say about a feasibility study. 
-I should like to ask the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Mr 
Crean) a follow up question on that point. One reason why the Opposition clearly prefers the Trade Commissioner Service is that it has a function to provide data and make introductions, and that is where it stops. 
That is right, it does not I do not for one minute attribute this motivation to the Minister, but taking it literally- unless I am wrong- clause 12 (2) (a) theoretically would enable the Overseas Trading Corporation to arrange for the production or manufacture of goods by manufacturers in other countries for import into Australia because of the import powers given to the Corporation by other parts of the Bill. It is when one sees this combination of powers that one asks whether it is commercially necessary. The Minister has mentioned small companies. I can think of a brand of soft drink in Australia, for example, which is not by any means the most prominent brand of soft drink, but which has penetrated the Middle Eastern market quite well on its own initiative but through introductions by the Department of Overseas Trade and the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures. Means of introduction exist. I think that this is the reason why industry feels that expenditure on the establishment of yet another body at this time is not necessary. The Minister may care to comment on that possible interpretation. Whilst in practice there would be a hue and cry which would make the position politically untenable and probably no Australian government would want to use it, on the face of it it stands as a possible threat to local manufacture. 
I have the same concern as my colleague the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  The Minister for Overseas Trade said in his second reading speech: 
If it - 
That is the Corporation-  considers a transaction to be in the national interest by reason of its size or potential, but not commercially attractive, it may request the government to permit it to undertake the deal. If the government agrees, it will reimburse the Corporation for any losses that may be sustained. 
I wonder whether the Minister can illustrate what sort of transaction he has in mind. It was not very long ago that this Parliament considered so-called national interest provisions in another Bill, the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill. We had problems then with the breadth of the wording. In this Bill, although the problems are not so extreme, there are difficulties in understanding how this clause is intended to be used. If the Minister can give an illustration, it may show that some of our fears are groundless. I cannot think of a transaction- apart from those to do with foreign aid, which is quite a separate question- which would fit into the description in the Minister's speech or into the actual clause itself. If the size and potential of a transaction are not commercially attractive, one wonders how the transaction can be in the national interest. The Minister may be able to give an example of such a transaction, but I suspect that we are getting back into the foreign aid area, in which case I think the matter could have been dealt with rather differently. 
If it means simply the general proposition that we are not dealing enough with centrally planned economics, one comes back to the part of the Minister's speech where he spoke about the growing trend towards governmenttogovernment arrangements. Perhaps that is what the Minister intends to be covered by clause 13. Although there is a growing trend, and that is undeniable, there is no screaming necessity for it. One wonders why we need to add to the trend when there is still no evidence of a feasibility study having been conducted. We only have an assertion that government-to-government dealings are on the increase but no assertion that governments will deal only with governments. I repeat that there are commercial counsellors and others in Australia from centrally planned economies who agree that they are more interested in dealing with people who are really knowledgeable. Whilst they are accustomed to dealing with governments, there are many examples of Australian industry dealing with centrally planned economies. 
I would be grateful if the Minister would illustrate just what sort of transactions are contemplated as being so much in the national interest yet not commercially attractive enough for the entrepreneur. 
I would like to agree with the observations made by the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury)  about the fact that the problem which confronts Parliament is not a party political one; it is a problem with which politicians on both sides of this House have lived for a long time. It seems to me that this point has just been ably illustrated by the calling of a quorum in the middle of a debate on the estimates of the Parliament. People on both sides of the chamber put up with the most antiquated procedures. Regardless of which party is in government, the Opposition finds it appropriate to call quorums and divisions with the idea of disrupting government. It seems to me that if we are really examining seriously the role of Parliament we should certainly need to consider changing the rules relating to quorums and divisions. Perhaps we could postpone the holding of divisions to a certain time of the day so that the business of both government and Opposition may be conducted properly. 
We are concerned at the moment with the estimates for Parliament and, of course, a very small sum has been allocated for that purpose. One must be critical of the conditions under which parliamentarians work. I know it is fashionable for the media to say that parliamentarians get increased salaries and remunerations. This sort of news item seems to be sensational. It seems to occupy most of the time of members of the media when they are questioning leaders of Parliament. But they do not know the conditions under which we work behind this elaborate facade of a building. They do not know about the rabbit warrens in which people are accommodated, three and four to a room. No union or private company in this country would tolerate these conditions. They are inefficient; they strain the goodwill of people who have to work in relative harmony; they strain the limited human resources. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is at the table, knows this problem well. He has tolerated it for a long time. But I wonder for how long members of this chamber and the people whom they represent must tolerate these conditions. 
As I have said, this is not a party political matter- it is a matter for the whole community. I am told quite often that I am a Johnnycomelately in this place, but it seems to me that the people of Australia do not know how bad the conditions are. Much more money would have been allocated in the Budget to this Parliament if the people knew how bad conditions were. Praise must be given to this Government for its decision to allow members of Parliament to appoint a research assistant to aid their electoral secretaries and to help them in their duties. Even this assistance makes a small impression on the work that needs to be done. 
The Minister for the Environment  (Mr Berinson)  made reference to a number of inadequacies with respect to the researching of material which is to be considered in Parliament. For one thing, the Parliament has to consider too much legislation. The honourable member for Ryan said that we may have to sit longer. Of course, one could criticise much of this legislation as being nuts and bolts legislation or legislation more adequately dealt with by State governments or councils. But regardless of that criticism, there is too much legislation. There is also the haste with which the legislation is drawn. Just as we have limited time within which to consider the legislation, the parliamentary draftsmen have limited time within which to draw it. In fact this was admitted by the First Parliamentary Counsel,  Mr Comans,  to the Eighteenth Legal Convention in Canberra only recently. 
Another of the requirements of members of Parliament is the collection of information from government and private sources. We must have time to digest the information and research assistance in order to do that. I repeat that this is not a criticism in any way of the present Government which has greatly improved the very limited facilities of honourable members. But more needs to be done. The honourable member for Ryan referred to the inadequacy of question time. This is something which has been complained of for years. I see that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  is in the chamber. When he was an Opposition back bencher he complained about the time which Opposition back benchers received. It was in September 1972 that the now Minister for Manufacturing Industry observed that back benchers in the House of Representatives were able to speak, if they were fortunate, for an average of 2.5 to 3 hours per annum and they could ask one question per month and they could make one speech per month. 
The Minister who has since exceeded his average. The people who elect people to office think that they are getting an adequate opportunity to be represented. We all know the problems at question time. The honourable member for Ryan referred to that matter to some extent. Question time ought to be a probing occasion. Again I say that I am not being critical of this Government or of the Opposition. It is a fact of the institution, so it seems, that question time is less than adequate when it comes to extracting information from the Government. 
I wish to speak upon the question of Papua New Guinea and certain aspects of Australia's relationship with that country. I am prompted to do so for 2 reasons: Firstly, because like you,  Mr Speaker,  I was in Papua New Guinea during the independence celebrations and, secondly, because of some of the reporting in the Australian media since the independence celebrations which has given in my opinion an unfair picture of the problems facing the Papua New Guinea Government. The problems which that Government faces are immense and it is neither fair nor realistic to judge the Government of emerging countries by criteria such as those which would apply for the problems of highly industrialised economies. Yet this is what some reporters have done. 
I will not, at this stage any way, specify the reporters or analyse their reports. I certainly do not wish to appear as an apologist for the Papua New Guinea Government but I do wish to appear as a member of this Parliament who worked in Papua New Guinea and who probably has a better appreciation of the problems of that country and the policies of that Government than have the reporters who have aroused my ire. I will therefore content myself with presenting my view of the significance of the independence celebrations and independence and the nature of the problems now being faced by that Government. I do so in a very non-Party political fashion. I think one of the most impressive aspects of the independence celebrations was the fact that there was neither euphoria nor hysteria. There were no extravagant gestures or speeches; there was merely a calm acceptance of the reality of independence. Many of the Ministers and other members of Parliament admitted that they had tears in their eyes when the Australian flag was lowered and again on the following day when the Papua New Guinea flag was raised. This must rank as a rare independence celebration indeed. 
The independence celebrations were highly successful. Prince Charles and other visitors expressed their appreciation of the smooth fashion in which the celebrations were organised. There was no major hitch. This again is a rare event. It is doubtful whether the average citizens of Papua New Guinea can really conceive the magnitude of the problems which lie before their country and its leaders. Its principal leaders do recognise those problems and they do intend to apply themselves with determination to the resolution of them if only because the alternative to success is quite unthinkable. 
It is widely recognised that the inner Cabinet is a strong one and that the choice of  Sir John  Guise as Governor-General is most appropriate. It is a very fitting climax to his career and one which must privately astonish him when he considers the controversial nature of his career. The most notable members of the present Cabinet are the Prime Minister,  Mr Somare;  his  Deputy, Sir Maori  Kiki; the Finance Minister,  Mr Julius  Chan;  Sir Paul  Lapun from Bougainville; and  Mr Ebia  Olewale. These men represent all parts of Papua New Guinea and are likely to be its leaders for many years to come. They are very much aware that the highlanders are ceasing to be the conservative people who they were once and they are also aware that younger leaders are emerging and that if they are cultivated they will add strength to the present Government and that if they are ignored they will become opponents. 
The Public Service continues to grow and this Will be a problem for Papua New Guinea. Australia has provided that country with a larger Public Service than has been left to other countries by colonial powers. While this has been important in budding the necessary infrastructure, the new nation's leaders will have a major task in curbing the growth of the Public Service. Other emerging nations have found that the Public Service has become a haven for mediocrity and the means of resolving employment problems amongst families and friends of politicians and senior public servants. The traditional sense of kinship obligation will make this a distinct probability in Papua New Guinea. The shortage of middle management will remain a problem for at least another decade. There are many less competent, and often less humble, persons who have filled the vacuum created by the Australian departure and this will mean that no matter how conscientious are departmental heads and how competent are the Ministers and the senior public servants, there will be below them a number who can at best perform their duties adequately. If they are able to do even this they will have served their country well. Evidence of the vacuum created by Australia's departure strikes one quickly on returning to Papua New Guinea but Papua New Guinea's leaders are aware of this. After a period of consolidation we may expect that this vacuum will be filled by overseas experts recruited by the new Government in accordance with policies aimed at maintaining firm control of Papua New Guinea's resources in the Government's hands. 
It is often observed that one of Papua New Guinea's greatest difficulties lies in the fragmentation of its language and culture. This can, however, be converted to an asset as there is no one ethnic group large enough to dominate the others and there is no likely coalition of ethnic groups to achieve this dominance. This is one case, therefore, in which unity can be achieved despite the extreme diversity, because that diversity is so great as to make any independent action by any of the ethnic groups economically and politically impracticable. Public education programs have been conducted to convince citizens of the need for unity. A wide range of T-shirts and posters proclaim both independence and unity with slogans such as 'Our country's future is in our hands'. 
The leaders in Port Moresby will certainly need to guard against the tendency to preoccupy themselves with the paper work associated with administration, at the expense of travelling the country and communicating with its citizens. Papua New Guinea is a potentially rich country, and with improved technology much of its mineral and oil wealth will be capable of extraction on a commercial basis. In order to expedite this, its foreign investment policy will need to be made clear and its border problem with Australia will need to be resolved amicably and expeditiously. Likewise it must continue to show the residents of Bougainville that it is a strong government and can provide leadership without malting martyrs of the people who have tried to have Bougainville secede. It is generally felt that Bougainville will not secede if the central government can remain strong and provide the necessary services for the people. The situation would, of course, become complicated if a foreign power were to recognise the unilateral declaration of independence by Bougainville. Judging from the media coverage there are some media people in Australia who would wish that to happen. Similarly, the Papua separatist movement is not regarded seriously. Just as there are many senior administrators who come from Bougainville, there are many prominent Papuans in the Government and in the public service. 
Last night the Papua New Guinea Treasurer,  Mr Julius  Chan, presented the independent country's first Budget. In doing so he was reluctantly critical of Australia 's grant in aid. This is a matter upon which the Papua New Guinea Government feels most upset. As I said before, I do not wish in this speech to introduce a party political note, so I will conclude by expressing my regret that this unfortunate wrangle should have occurred at this time when Australia is handing over to the independent nation. I am sure that all Australians will recognise our obligation to assist Papua New Guinea with technical and material aid for decades to come, and also to extend trade between our countries for the benefit and prosperity of both. 
-I wish to talk tonight about the National Employment and Training scheme. The 3 fundamental objectives of the NEAT scheme are, of course, pursuant to the Cochrane report and are excellent. The only criticisms which have come from the Opposition about the NEAT scheme have been about the manner of its administration, which has been quite deplorable. Our problems in regard to the NEAT scheme may be discerned from the impartial first annual report of the National Training Council for the year ended 31 December 1974. If one looks at that report one sees reference to the fact that the NEAT scheme has superseded the previous Australian Government administered labour market training arrangements and it has absorbed all trainees under previously operating training programs. 
Of course many of these were initiated by the previous Liberal-Country Party Goverment. This is one explanation of the fact that the Minister is able to claim that there are 10 000 trainees under the NEAT scheme. That report goes on to say this and this is rather important: 
Of necessity, persons unemployed by reason of tariff cuts, redundancy and other structural change agents, and who needed to undertake training to enter suitable new employment, were afforded highest priority assistance. 
One has to observe that the 25 per cent across the board tariff cuts were prepared without the NEAT scheme being ready to cope with the consequent unemployment. This is one reason why NEAT is so maligned and one reason why the Department of Labor and Immigration, with the best will in the world, could not cope with the strains and demands placed upon it. I wish to make clear that the criticisms which I direct are not at the officers of the Department of Labor and Immigration but at the Government for making across the board tariff cuts of this magnitude and expecting NEAT to be able to cope. 
The other aspect of the report which is important is that at the end of December 1974 twothirds of those training under NEAT were women. The policy has changed somewhat from that set out in a ministerial directive of 6 December 1974 when  Mr Clyde  Cameron was the Minister for Labor and Immigration. However, before referring to the training of women under NEAT I would like to make clear that all members of this Committee have experienced problems associated with maladministration, problems stemming from the fact that the policy in regard to NEAT has changed almost daily. Departmental officers, again with the best will in the world, have scratched their heads and have been unable to explain adequately the policy because it has never seemed to be clear. Members from both sides of the chamber have written to the Minister of the day asking for clarification, but this has never been forthcoming. 
Before I move on to the question of women under the NEAT scheme, I would like to raise a third factor. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  mentioned that the present Government had recognised that retraining is necessary because persons are not trained just once by way of an apprenticeship, a degree or otherwise; they need to be retrained several times. We would be a lot further advanced if only the trade union movement in Australia would recognise that proposition. The Government of the day, whether it be Labor or Liberal, will have difficulties with the old conservative trade unionists who believe that once one has a ticket one is trained for life. Having said that, all honourable members know of many serious anomalies and injustices which have resulted from the maladministration, the frequent policy changes and the absence of any certain guidelines surrounding this scheme. 
The first criticism one would make is that NEAT is supposedly directed towards labour market needs. Yet officers of the Commonwealth Employment Service appear to rely upon their own flimsy resources for market information. The accuracy of information is crucial when taxpayers' money is being spent on trainees for 3 years. This is one reason why we hear stories of one part of the Department of Labor and Immigration compensating employees and management for structural adjustment programs consequent upon tariff reforms and another part of the Department training people for jobs which have been rendered redundant because of the tariff reforms. Equally, there was a report in the National Times of 2 June last of 22 persons being retrained for unskilled jobs. We hear of many other anomalies. 
The second criticism is that of a basic error in the Cochrane report which prescribed a flat allowance for trainees. This has led to a number of abuses. The first abuse is by the wives of the wealthy, some of whom live in my electorate. Some of these people, who drive to the various educational institutions in their Mercedes-Benz or other expensive cars, are getting the same amount of approximately $97 as the unemployed labourer with many dependants who rides his bike to school. 
I am not denying that. I do not congratulate myself for that fact. But it is the Government which is on trial at the moment. The NEAT scheme is also abused by husbands, some of whom are getting $97 a week although they have part-time or full-time jobs. Some are doing evening shifts and some have wives who work on a full-time basis. But these people are still getting their $97. 
There is also discrimination against married women who since 6 December are not regarded as 'primary breadwinners'. I am referring to women who wish to undertake a tertiary training program and to be reimbursed for books or fares and, where appropriate, fees. I have raised these matters with the departmental officers for many months. In some cases I have raised them with the present Minister for Labor and Immigration and with the previous Minister. But still there persists a discrimination which is really based on sex. 
It is very difficult to discuss these matters adequately in 10 minutes. In my files I have some very eloquent cases of incompetence in regard to the administration of NEAT. The most impassioned and articulate of these is from a  Mrs Moore  whose letters are well worth reading. However, my less eloquent shorthand version raises these points. Firstly, she applied for assistance under NEAT in October 1974 when the then Minister boasted that NEAT did not discriminate against women and that both men and women had the right to qualify in their own right. She was told to contact the St Kilda Commonwealth Employment Service office when she heard from her institution that she had been accepted. This acceptance, of course, came after 6 December, the date on which the NEAT policy changed in regard to people not regarded as primary breadwinners. As it was she was never the primary breadwinner in her family. Therefore for the first time she was ineligible to receive the NEAT grant. She was therefore refused. But she sits beside people who applied at the same time as she made her application and who managed to obtain acceptances from their institution before 6 December and are therefore entitled to be reimbursed for registration, tuition and examination fees, and of course, their books. 
It is important that we realise that the Australian Taxation Office does not allow her husband to deduct her educational expenses from his taxable income because she is over the age of 25 years. So here is another case of one Government department acting without coordinating with another. There are thousands of people like  Mrs Moore  who resent the fact that they are sitting beside people who get $97. They resent even more their inability to be able to deduct educational expenses from their taxable income. People like  Mrs Moore  would be content with a small sum to offset the cost of travel, books and child minding. But this is not appropriate at the moment. 
It seems that a means test is clearly necessary. We have to remove this impractical theory of egalitarianism. If we were to pay married women who have a primary breadwinner less than the $97 decreed by NEAT there would be more money to go around, more people would be able to be trained and more would be able to satisfy the essential aims of the Cochrane report which are to contribute to overcoming skills in short supply; to assist in long term structuring of the work force and bring about overall increases in the general levels of skill; and to serve the social and economic well-being of the community by the removal of inequalities and the enhancement of employment opportunities. There are many illustrations of this which make a mockery of the present aims of the NEAT scheme and affect thousands of people. 
I should like to commend the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  for preparing and presenting this Bill and I should also like to commend Professor Sackville and the Legal Aid Review Committee. I think they have done Australia a service with the thoroughness with which they have prepared their reports. Professor Sackville 's report is an excellent report. Apart from being thorough, it is very readable and it is eminently practical. The Legal Aid Review Committee relied heavily on Professor Sackville, and wisely so. This Committee is well qualified and was well able to query any of Professor Sackville 's pronouncements. The fact that it adopted his report so thoroughly is a credit to him. 
Apart from the  Chairman, Mr Roy  Turner whom I know, and who has a lot of practical experience as a private solicitor acting on the panel of the New South Wales Public Solicitor, other persons who were on the Committee were distinguished and experienced in the field of legal aid, including  Mr Justice  Lalor who for many years was Public Solicitor in Papua New Guinea and for whom I worked. It is perhaps important to mention at this point that the first 10 years of my working life were spent in legal aid offices. Therefore, I feel that in this debate I can speak with some authority. For those reasons I applaud the work of Professor Sackville and the report, and I most strongly support the Bill. Passages from the report of Professor Sackville are incorporated in a couple of places in the Australian Legal Aid Review Committee's second report. I would like to quote from the foot of page 1 of that report. The Committee says this: 
The Committee agrees with the conclusion reached by Professor Sackville in his Discussion Paper (para. 1.7)- 
The report then quotes Professor Sackville. I would like to read what he says and add my support by expressly agreeing with it. Professor Sackville says: 
One of the fundamental choices to be made in establishing or reorganising a system of legal aid is to determine whether the services provided should be confined solely to meeting the needs of individual clients or should extend to the use of the legal process to attempt to change the political economic and social status of the poor. In Australia the more limited approach has been taken, but if the law is to play a significant role in improving the position of large numbers of disadvantaged people the broader view should be accepted. This approach involves the use of such techniques as test cases brought to develop principles in areas not previously  judicially explored or designed to stimulate changes in legislation or administrative practices. In addition legal aid agencies should be prepared to press for the introduction of reforms in the interests of disadvantaged groups, by the formulation and presentation of draft legislation and other proposals for change. A further function of legal aid should be participation in activities designed to overcome the 'powerlessness of the poor' their inability to resist or shape the forces that impose inequities and hardship upon them. 
The Committee went on: 
Clearly the implementation of a national legal aid scheme in accordance with this philosophy presents many challenges and problems. However, with the establishment of the Australian Legal Aid Office some of these have already been tackled. One major responsibility of the Legal Services Commission which this report proposes will be to explore the means of implementing the changes dictated by a broad philosophy of legal aid. 
That is a very important statement. To some people of course it will be rather a radical concept. The only reason I would like to see the Bill go to a joint committee, which is contemplated in the amendment of the Opposition, is to allay the fears which some people in the community have about the way in which the Legal Aid Office will function. Some of the problems have been raised by the Law Council of Australia and others are acknowledged in the report of the Legal Aid Review Committee, but basically the problems are being placed on the plate of the Australian Legal Aid Commission. It would do no harm, however, for this to be considered by a joint committee which could examine the propositions once more with a view to improving the Bill still further. 
Having said that, I congratulate the AttorneyGeneral for the period of time he allowed to elapse after tabling the Bill. As I have said, I have no problems personally with the Bill. I certainly agree emphatically with the duty solicitor concept. Again I would like to quote from the report of the Legal Aid Review Committee. On page 6 it says: 
There is widespread agreement that the major area of need not covered by existing legal aid schemes in practice is the provision of representation in criminal matters in courts of summary jurisdiction. Although some existing legal aid schemes do extend to representing defendants charged with offences in such courts, for the most part accused persons unable to afford their own counsel, will be forced to appear unrepresented. 
That is a serious situation and one which this Bill seeks to cure. Secondly, I make it clear that I support the concept of salaried staff working in parallel with the private profession. I agree with the local consultative committees which are contemplated in this Bill. It is very important to encourage local involvement without unduly imposing on local practitioners. Both the Citizens Advisory Bureau system which is very common in Victoria and the Public Solicitor's Office in New South 
Wales tend to impose upon local practitioners. I believe too that the Legal Aid Commission is a most meritorious idea in providing a research and advisory body to government. It will have a most important role in preventing duplication and waste, and above aU it will be untouched by political influence in matters such as test cases which may in some way embarrass the government of the day. I think also that the idea of decentralised offices is a most important one and an excellent one. 
Last year when I spoke on the AttorneyGeneral's estimates I deplored the absence of a BUI and I also criticised the duplication. I did then, as I do now, strongly support the concept of a legal aid office. My first criticism, that of the absence of a BUI, is of course cured by this BUI, but I think the absence of a BUI encouraged or invited the idea of a High Court challenge to the Aus.tralian Legal Aid Office. As to my second criticism, I refer particularly to pages 2647-9 of last year's  Hansard.  I think what I said then still remains a problem- that is the co-ordination between the Public Solicitor's Office, the Law Society of New South Wales and the Australian Legal Aid Office. I was critical then and I remain critical of the endeavours in the other States. I think this is something to which the Legal Aid Commission will need to give early attention if taxpayers' money is to be saved. This is the kind of thing with which the amendment of the Opposition hopes to cope. In any event, the Legal Aid Commission Will need to examine the matter very carefully. 
Of course, one should also say that we have to be careful that the Australian Legal Aid Office does not become a bottomless pit. The shadow Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  has pointed to the English experience and has pointed to the fact that there are rising costs to government under legal aid systems in England. For example, in 1969-70 the approximate cost of legal aid services in England was 8m; in 1 970-7 1 it was  10m; in the 2 years to 1 972-73 it had gone up to  19m; in 1973-74 to 25m; and in 1974-75 to 30m. This, of course, is a worrying thing, and somehow we have to strike the happy medium between inadequate services as now exist and waste which can exist if the Legal Aid Office gets out of hand. 
Certainly, both personal experience and the Sackville report convince me of the inadequacies and the disuniform nature of the existing legal aid services in the States. In fact, I recently brought to the attention of the Victorian Attorney-General a most unsatisfactory example of so-called legal aid from the Victorian Legal 
Aid Committee. No one can convince me that the services being provided in the States are anything resembling adequate services. 
I repudiate the suggestion from some sections of the legal profession that the independence, integrity or even the existence, which is what some say, of the private profession is threatened by this Bill. It is not. It will in fact provide work for the profession which is not now handled by anyone. A mixture of social conscience and enlightened self-interest has led others in the profession to welcome the Bill. 
One of the possible abuses will he in the area of assigned solicitors costs. The Commission will have to devise a means of making solicitors moderate their costs and making them accountable for their costs without prejudicing those who need legal aid. Similarly, the Commission will have to try to curb the temptation of some of the enthusiastic lawyers who may encourage unnecessary litigation. As it is public money which is being spent, some tests will have to be devised. The New South Wales Legal Assistance Act of 1943 has a test of reasonable grounds and the Public Solicitor has absolute authority to say whether reasonable grounds for granting legal aid exist. There will need to be some regard for the public interest in matters such as that. This again is contemplated in the amendment which is before the House. I would like now to read from an attachment to a letter which was sent to all honourable members by the AttorneyGeneral on 1 April. He makes the following statement in paragraph 8 on page 3: 
The Office provides a general problem solving service of legal advice for persons with an element of financial need. It is intended to solve the majority of problems that affect the ordinary citizens. Eligibility is determined on interview without a formal means test. 
I applaud that. I think that is a very meritorious service. It is very important for people to get legal advice rather than being encouraged to take legal action and rather than finding themselves passed on to some other so called advisory body. Let me make a constructive suggestion. I hope that the Attorney will take some notice of it. As I said before, I speak from 10 years experience in legal aid offices. Some fee is desirable and necessary to minimise the cranks who come to legal aid offices. I refer to people who suffer from a variety of hallucinations and other mental conditions and who are the plague of willing legal aid officers. They provide a lighter side of life, no doubt, but at the same time they waste a lot of time. I think the charging of a fee would also minimise trivia. An awful lot of trivia comes across the path of legal aid offices. I think at the same time there is a strange by-product from the Protestant ethic which makes people value things they pay for and charging a fee would bring respect and appreciation to the office. I strongly recommend that a modest charge, perhaps even a token charge, be made.  (Quorum formed) 
I must congratulate the Government Whip on his acuity in calling a quorum when one of the Opposition members is speaking in support of the Government's Bill. Having said that and having made what I think is a most important and constructive suggestion on the way in which the means test can operate I would like to say again that I applaud the idea of advice of this general nature being given. Apart from the Public Solicitor's Office in New South Wales there has been a very serious vacuum in this field. I also make a constructive comment about the idea of interviewing officers. An interviewing solicitor is preferable to a non-legal officer. Nonlegal officers tend to give advice without the embarrassment of legal training and without any familiarity with the law library. Often they have, too, a clerical mentality and a rather curt manner which is very bad for the office. 
I would like to say in regard to the letter of 1 April of the Attorney-General to which I have referred that I think paragraphs 9 and 10 are very sensible and they provide a flexible means and needs test which is very important for matters that go beyond legal advice. I would like to make one comment of criticism, however. It relates to the advertising of the Australian Legal Aid Office. I agree that advertising is needed to make the public aware, but I also believe that criticism is needed of the way in which the advertising was conducted. It really resembled Government propanganda because it ignored the legal aid offices which existed, although they are inadequate, as we have conceded. Cooperation of the States and voluntary legal aid systems cannot be obtained by projecting the Legal Aid Office as being the only answer. I would like to be critical also of the supplement to the  Women's Weekly  that was mailed air express in great volumes to honourable members at considerable cost to the taxpayer. I would have thought that a booklet explaining the Legal Aid Office could be available at post offices, Commonwealth Savings Banks, supermarkets and elsewhere. 
Having said that I wish to come back to the fact that I think the Sackville report is excellent. The Public Solicitor 's Office in New South Wales is accurately reported. I had 8 years in that office and if that part of the report is a reflection of Professor Sackville 's thoroughness the rest of his report must be very fair and balanced. His recommendations are imaginative and constructive and his conclusions are very fair. It is a very harsh criticism of governments and the profession when the only extensive salaried service in Australia, that in the Public Solicitor's Office in New South Wales, has a means test which excludes applicants falling below the poverty line. No matter whether one remembers that this was not always so or whether one tries to argue about Professor Henderson's definition of the poverty line it does not alter the fact that it is a damning indictment of governments and the private profession. 
In my view the Government is to be commended for introducing this Bill. I support its concepts while I am mindful of the very vexed administrative problems and the need for financial management skills. The Attorney-General is however wrong in saying that the Opposition is opposed to legal aid. We are not. I quote from a statement of the shadow Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  of 8 May when he said: 
Legal aid should be available to all who can show that they need it. Equality before the law can only be meaningful if each individual had the ability to exercise his rights. Individuals should not be prevented in pursuing a justifiable claim because of the costs involved. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I ask my question of the Prime Minister. Do all of the proposed restrictions on travel and facilities for members and their staff apply equally to all Ministers and their staff? Do these restrictions also apply to the Prime Minister and his staff? 
-The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  concerned himself with what he called 'the obstruction of the Senate'. He said that the Government has had many aims for the States and the Senate has obstructed those aims. Of course, we know that it is fashionable to decry the fact that the Senate was designed as a States House. There is some validity in the criticism of the way in which the Senate has changed from its original intentions. But one has to ask: Is it proper for this Government or any other Federal government to become such a self-appointed expert on what the States require? Did the Government ask the States when it imposed its centralism? This Government decides what it wants to do and it tries to impose its will upon the States, and if the States or the States House resist they are accused of obstructionism, of obstructing the divine centralist will of this Federal Labor Government. Let the State governments- this is an important part of our philosophy- be judged by their constituents, not by this self-deemed enlightenment of which the honourable member for Scullin spoke- the self-deemed enlightenment of the present, or any other, Federal government. 
-That is a separate question. The honourable member interjects about the distribution of boundaries. I am talking about the structure of States, not the distribution of Federal electorates within States. 
-The problem of State electorates is one which varies from State to State. The honourable member for Scullin referred also to alleged double taxation as being the policy of the Opposition. This again is not the case. It might be worth while if I spend some time on the question of the Opposition's federalism policy. Before doing so, however, I should like to say that this debate, though short, has been most informative for anyone interested in this subject. 
It was begun yesterday by the thoughtful contribution of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr KevinCairns)  in which, despite the rising tensions on other matters in this House, the honourable member explained the complexity of the problem of Federal-State financial relations. 
-The honourable member for Scullin pays tribute to that and in his own speech also contributed to some understanding of the problems. Of course, this Bill arises from the present Federal-State financial relations. It is not a situation begun by this Government, but it is a situation accentuated by this Government which leads the Federal Government to have responsibilities to the States. They are reflected in this Bill from decisions of Premiers Conferences and Loan Council meetings. But the Premiers Conferences and Loan Council meetings of recent years have shown that the States do not have the financial resources to carry out their responsibilities. This, of course, is the nub of our problem. Even with prudent housekeeping, the States are unable to raise more money than they are required to spend. State governments, therefore, are dependent upon Federal financial support for the greater part of their Budget outlays. 
This Government, the present Federal Labor Government, has used section 96 of the Constitution, which provides for specific purpose grants, in a dictatoral fashion to impose the will of the Federal Government upon the States- a purpose quite unintended by the founders of the Constitution. It is intended that a future LiberalNational Country Party government will make sure that section 96 grants are used for limited special purposes and not for a general imposition of the will of the Federal government. The way in which section 96 has been used by the present Government amounts to an unwarranted intervention in or interference with the autonomy of the States. It is not only the States which are affected; it is, of course, also local government. Local government is very much caught in the crossfire between the present Federal and State governments. What is required is a new policy of federalism. We require a new definition of responsibilities and resources of the 3 arms of government. We need to strengthen the financial independence of the States. Consequently the Opposition Parties, when returned to government, will introduce a system of revenue sharing which will give the States adequate funds to carry out their proper functions and their responsibilities. This will be done without the States being made dependent upon Bills of this nature. 
This strengthened financial independence will have a direct relevance to local government. 
After the provocation of the honourable member for Scullin, I should like to turn to the policy on federalism announced by the joint Opposition Parties. It has been published. I refer to pages 3 and 4 of the published document. Under the heading  Revenue-Sharing Proposals  and the sub-heading  Permanent Share of Income Tax,  the publication states: 
The Liberal and National Country Parties propose to ensure the States permanent access to revenue-raising through personal income tax. In so doing, the existing rights of the less populous States will be fully protected. 
-By an equalisation formula which has been approved by each of the leaders of the Liberal and National Country Parties in the States. Each one of them has approved of this, with a designated and agreed share of personal income tax being provided. The policy document continues: 
No State will be disadvantaged and the relative positions of the States will be preserved. 
The Commonwealth will be the sole collecting agency. There will be a standard tax form, embracing uniform concessional allowances. Commonwealth and State taxes will be separately identified on one assessment so that the taxpayer can see the amount being levied by each form of government. 
The new system is intended to ensure that the States will have substantially the financial capacity to meet their responsibilities. 
In exercising their revenue-raising powers the States will be expected to accept responsibility to work in parallel with and not in negation of the overall economic management policies of the Commonwealth. 
On the question of economic management, the policy document states: 
To ensure full understanding and effective co-operation, the Commonwealth will convene pre-Budget meetings of the Premiers' Conference in addition to other regular meetings of that body. 
It is important to realise that in order to aid local government State grants commissions will be established. They  w3l  be needed to supervise the distribution of the revenue which we will guarantee to the States. The State grants commissions will replace the inappropriate and cumbersome local government activities of the Federal Grants Commission which is currently taking on an unreal task of trying to cater for the needs of more than 900 local government bodies. We also will replace, by virtue of the State grants commissions, the tied aid policy, the policy of aid with strings, of the present Government. 
It is important to realise that the local government sphere is the hardest hit of all the spheres of government. It has problems of rigidity of funds and debt servicing. Of course, there are many new cost areas which flow from the policies of the present Federal Government. Local government at the moment relies heavily upon rates as the only real source of income. This is a very unpopular measure and of course a very political measure in which it is decided, according to when local government elections are to be held, just in what manner and to what extent rates will be increased. This means that at times of hyperinflation such as we now have the income of local governments is simply unable to cope with inflation. In fact local government income in relation to that of the Federal and State governments has declined very sharply indeed. Consequently local government requires a share of this growth tax, that is, income tax. On page 5 the Opposition Parties' policy document on federalism states, with reference to local government: 
The Liberal and National Country Parties also propose to earmark a fixed percentage of personal income tax for distribution through the States to local government. This percentage will be shown on the tax assessment. 
The money is intended for two distinct purposes: 
a per capita grant to ALL local government bodies, with a 'weighted ' formula in contemplation; and 
an equalisation or 'topping up' grant to be distributed through State Grants Commissions. 
This will be a vital new reform for local government. Under these proposals, municipalities and shires will have revenues of known dimensions to assist forward budgeting. At the same time, they will have very much greater independence of action. 
It is important again to remind the House of the difference in philosophy between the Government and the Opposition. In the eyes of the Opposition every sphere of government- Federal, State and local- should be fully responsible to its own constituents. The public surely is calling for an end to the buck passing of responsibility financially between the Federal and State governments. It is calling for an end to the sorts of criticism which have just come from the honourable member for Scullin. It is calling for an end to the begging bowl spectacle of the States coming to Canberra every year and asking for money and for the present Federal Government imposing its will even to the point of determining for which pedestrian crossings money will be made available, where traffic lights will be erected, and so on. 
The State Liberal Party and National Country Party Leaders, as I have said, fully support the policy which we have espoused. They were consulted on it. They were part of its formation. They have also supported the equalisation proposals and they have supported the establishment of a very important body called the Council for Inter-Government Relations. This institution is designed to eliminate duplication and waste between the various arms of government. I read again from page 6 of the policy document. It states: 
As a vital institution of co-operation within the various forms of government, we propose to establish a Council for Inter-Government relations. 
This will be an independent statutory body of major status. Its membership will include nominees of Federal, State and local governments and also a number of citizens. 
The Council will have wide-ranging advisory and investigatory powers. By reference from either Federal, State or local government, it will examine in depth the problems which emerge between the various branches of government and will consider the definition and rationalisation of functions. 
Its recommendations and reports will be available to all areas of government. 
That is not a mere cliche. That is not a flimsy promise to try to hold before electors. That is a genuine establishment of a mechanism designed to eliminate the inevitable waste and duplication that occur when the 3 arms of government concern themselves with matters which concern people. Increasingly, of course, local government bodies have gone well beyond servicing merely properties; they are servicing people. All arms of government are concerned with that. This Bill of course concerns the financing of services to people. 
In conclusion, whilst the Opposition supports this Bill it deplores the manner in which FederalState relations have deteriorated in recent times under the present Government. We are most confident that our own federalism policy will restore responsibility and above all accountability to each State so that each State government is responsible to its own constituents, each local government body is responsible to its own constituents and so that all constituents of Australia can see precisely where their income tax is going, so that in fact it can be determined by active opposition spokesmen at local level, at State level and at Federal level how the 3 spheres of government should be judged on their performance. It is simply not enough for a Federal government to say: 'We have decided what is best for the country. We have decided that we want to do this. We are sorry that the States do not want to go along with it. We are sorry that the Senate does not want to go along with it. We have decided what is best'. 
As we have a federal system, regardless of how we would draw up the Constitution if we were drawing it afresh today, it is important that we recognise that it is a system with its own checks and balances, a system which with goodwill can work, a system in which the ultimate control is that of the democratic constituents, who can determine from their own assessment of how money is spent and how money is raised how the government of the day- local, State or Federal- is carrying out its responsibilities. Our policy restores accountability to all 3 spheres of government. We believe that it will improve efficiency, and we believe that that efficiency and the accountability will be for the benefit of all constituents in Australia. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I would like to add my congratulations to those you have received and also to record my congratulations to  Mr Speaker  and echo the sentiments expressed by other honourable members who have congratulated  Mr Speaker.  I would like also to presume to congratulate the new members on their maiden speeches. As a still new member myself I found them enjoyable and stimulating. Unlike the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  who has just resumed his seat, I did not find them overwhelmingly conservative. I find that a rather amusing statement from the honourable member because I doubt that there is a more conservative member in either chamber of this Parliament than the honourable member for Lang. 
Turning to the Governor-General's Speech, there has been a series of assertions made by the Opposition that under this Government the poor, the sick, the aged and all those whom we may describe as socially and economically disadvantaged will be hard done by and will suffer. That assertion, wild and general as it is, is not justified either by the Governor-General's Speech or by the speeches made by private members, many of whom made their maiden speeches, who have preceded me in this debate. I cite as one example the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  and there are others who have given what in any circumstances could be regarded only as highly enlightened speeches. In the Governor-General's Speech  His Excellency  said: ... the Government will place great emphasis on directing welfare assistance to those in real need. Unless there is a concentration on those in real need, schemes of assistance do not provide maximum possible assistance to the disadvantaged and become excessively costly. The Government does not believe that the poor and disadvantaged can be best helped by increasing the dependence of everyone on what the Government chooses to provide. 
My Government believes that adequate opportunities for the disadvantaged as well as the most rapid improvement in social service provision, are dependent on people being free and encouraged to achieve their best. The disadvantaged must be helped in ways which leave them the maximum independence. 
This dignified self-help, which is a most important key to the philosophy of the Government Parties, is a matter which the Opposition spokesmen still have not understood. They have not understood the lesson from their period in government that unbridled and unlimited public spending which has the effect of making everyone dependent on the Government is not the way in which to achieve economic growth in order to achieve social improvements. One would have thought that by now some of the lessons of the old fashioned, outmoded welfare state paternalism would have got through to the Opposition, especially as the Wilson Labour Government has clearly learnt this lesson and is carrying out a very stringent program of across-the-board cuts. 
We believe in a redistribution of wealth and income and it may always be a matter of debate, even debate within the Government parties, as to whether such a redistribution is proceeding as far as it ought. It has always been a debate in the Australian Labor Party between the left, the centre and the right, but we believe in it. We also believe in growth, but not growth of an unlimited kind. This Speech is filled with caveats upon growth in keeping with the aspirations of an industrial community like ours in the last quarter of the 20th century. The references to the environment and other matters to which Labor has subscribed and in which we share with it in aspiration but differ from it in technique, is clear evidence of the fact that we want growth and want to assist the underprivileged and disadvantaged with maximum freedom for them, maximum freedom of choice and maximum human dignity. 
Once again I refer to 2 other extracts from the Governor-General's Speech which illustrate our philosophy. I do this at some length because the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  last night was at pains to point out that the Speech only referred to 4 Bills. What a contrast there is there. There is not a massive legislative program but a philosophy which is capable of implementation over the term of office. There is no need for hasty judgment about what the Government has done in a period of weeks. This Government has not set out to do things in a period of weeks. It has set out to do things in a period of years, and do them it will. This is the philosophy that will guide it. In his Speech the Governor-General said: 
Action to restore Australia's economic well being and decentralise Government decision making is essential to the Government's ability to provide better and more effective assistance to the disadvantaged. The Government will not permit economic recovery to take place at the expense of those who are less well off. 
There is a clear commitment. There is a clear pledge by this Government, and if this Govern. ment fails to honour this pledge it deserves to be flung out of office in the same way as the Labor Party was dismissed. The Governor-General also said: 
It is believed by the Government that voluntary welfare organisations are a critically important part of the Australian welfare system. Accordingly, financial assistance to them will continue. In addition, the Government will assist voluntary bodies by placing public service resources at their disposal through improving opportunities for transferability of staff between the Government and the non-government sector. 
The Leader of the Opposition said that we have talked about only 4 Bills and the honourable member for Lang who just resumed his seat said that we are breaking all kinds of promises. Here is the clearest and most far-reaching kind of concept which has so far been ignored by the Opposition, the transferability of staff between the government and the non-government sector, especially in the social welfare area. It is a most important concept. For a government which some people call reactionary, this Speech contains many enlightened sentiments. For example, there is copious reference to the role of women- a role to which certain elements of the Labor movement have given lip service and against which others have worked quite strongly. Despite what the honourable member for Lang said, there is a clear and cogent policy in relation to the arts. There is in this document a clear policy statement in relation to ethnic groups which all previous governments have ignored. There is certainly a clear and workable commitment to the environment and there is, of course, a most important provision regarding the right of privacy. 
The Government is also accused by some of union bashing. It is becoming rather tiresome. It is almost as tiresome as the discussion on constitutional rights. If one reads this document and if one reads the Press statements and other statements of Ministers in this Government one can find no justification for that assertion in relation to union bashing. This document reaffirms the Government's commitment to the trade union training program. That- is not a matter of party political dispute between us. The trade union training program is essential for a better understanding by rank and file trade unionists and by trade union official of the way in which the economy functions; it is essential to a better understanding of how to manage the affairs of their unions, which is a business when all is said and done. It provides them with a better appreciation of how to present their claims and, of course, helps them better to communicate with their members and with the employers. If one listens to some of the loose talk from the left or the right in our community, one hears irresponsible and stupid suggestions about a confrontation between this Government and the trade union movement. That, of course, is in very sharp contrast to the sentiments expressed by members of the Government. 
Again, if I may cite a maiden speech, the speech of the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  was quite distinguished for its moderation, enlightenment and tolerance, and it is by no means unique as a speech delivered from this side of the House. In fact, again it provides an interesting contrast for students of political science to compare some of the speeches of members of the Opposition, some of whom are former trade union officials, with speeches of the kind to which I have referred. Let me say most firmly that those people who talk of confrontation, whether they be of the left or of the right, do so heedless of the consequences to our entire society. I am confident that the trade union leaders and this Government will respect the role which each of them has and will not allow extremism to dictate the terms in Australia. 
I would like to refer to another matter which flows through this document and other statements of government policy, and that is the question of federalism. As we are constantly reminded, we have a fairly rigid Constitution. It may not be the kind of Constitution which we would write if we were writing it today. However, it is difficult to change, and we do have a federal system. If we were writing it again today I think we would still structure a federal system, even if we were to draw the regional boundaries differently. Our Constitution has important checks and balances, and these have been demonstrated in recent times. There are many faults to which one can point in relation to the way in which the system works, but that is the system we have and we have got to make the most of it. The policy of this Government is aimed at doing precisely that. 
I must say that as a private member I see some difficulties arising in implementing that policy. I believe that the Government must be wary of any notion that there is some sort of panacea for many of the problems which were identified most sharply under the Labor Government. But it is important that we make the States accountable for their actions. It is important that income tax be the means whereby the States have a source of income which they can spend in accordance with the dictates of their electorates. With active Opposition leaders in the States they should be able to make the State governments work more effectively without the need to come annually to Canberra begging for more money without fully accepting the responsibility of spending it and, above all, of raising it. When we implement that policy we shall certainly have to be careful to transfer responsibilities gradually, to transfer functions and to co-ordinate the functions as they are transferred. 
I do not doubt that there will be a strong temptation to hand over some of the too-hard baskets to the States and say: 'There you are, you have got your money; go ahead'. I think that is one of the things which the Government will certainly have to watch. There will have to be coordination at all stages, otherwise the phrase 'cooperative federalism' which is being used will be a meaningless one. There must be in so many areas an overseeing role taken by the Federal Government or a body representing the 7 governments so that the States, although working independently and answerable to their own constituencies, are in fact working to nationally agreed goals and guidelines. 
Another matter which is raised in the Governor-General's Speech concerns foreign aid and foreign affairs. It is regrettable that in the course of making expenditure savings the Government has found it necessary to make cuts in foreign aid. The Governor-General's Speech refers in particular to Papua New Guinea. I believe it to be of the utmost importance that we continue our aid to and trade with Papua New Guinea at the highest possible level. Papua New Guinea has the best government it can possibly have at the present, and I am afraid to say that if that government were not in power Papua New Guinea could only have a government infinitely worse, with no prospect for a long time of getting a better one. It is imperative that the Australian people, regardless of which government is in power, acknowledge the need for the government to give urgent and generous assistance in many forms to Papua New Guinea, and to give that assistance now, otherwise we might find ourselves expending all sorts of large sums of money in regrettable episodes in an effort to retrieve a situation which could develop from our failure to support the present Papua New Guinea Government. 
Certainly one of the most important areas is trade. Another relates to fisheries, in relation to which there is an area of difference between the 2 governments in terms of the waters and the fishing rights which are claimed. Above all, there is the intractable problem of the border in the Torres Strait. If Australia and Papua New Guinea cannot resolve that problem there is little hope for mankind, because if ever there were 2 nations with an historical affinity, they are the two. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has demonstrated in this House a clear grasp of the situation, and it is certainly imperative that he be able to implement our policy with the co-operation, to the extent necessary, of the State of Queensland. There is no doubt that it is a matter of top priority to the Parliament of Papua New Guinea. It is not something which can be traded off simply by making further grants of aid. I mentioned that matter because one hears from time to time of certain officials of the Department of Foreign Affairs, as distinct from the Minister, who are under the delusion that Papua New Guinea politicians can be bought off with more money and that they will drop their border claims. That certainly is not so. 
In the last minutes of my address I would like to turn to the matter mentioned in the closing stages of the Governor-General 's Speech, and that is the matter of law reform. The Speech specifically refers to the law of privacy, but there is one other matter on which I wish to touch. The Labor Government appointed the Royal Commission into Human Relationships. In my opinion that is a very important royal commission. Its report will come to this Parliament and hopefully will be acted upon. One matter which came before the Twenty-eighth Parliament by way of resolution of the House and which has not yet been acted upon is the resolution of this House recommending the decriminalization of homosexual acts by consenting males in private. 
The Governor-General's Speech is quite properly silent on that subject because that is a matter of individual vote. However, it is important that this Parliament deals with what was resolved 2 
Parliaments ago. I understand that the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Ellicott)  has the matter under consideration. If in fact no Bill emanates from the Attorney-General I for one will be prepared to sponsor such a Bill. The reason for my mentioning that matter at this stage is that, while controversial, it is another way in which honourable members will be able to advance their views because of what the Governor-General has mentioned in 2 particular passages in his Speech. I shall quote from the beginning and from the end of his Speech. At the beginning he says: 
It is to encourage the development of an Australia in which people have maximum freedom and independence to achieve their goals in life, in ways which they decide. 
In the closing paragraphs of his Speech the Governor-General said: 
We have a unique opportunity to establish in Australia a truly liberal and humane society- 
All Government supporters are committed to the establishment of a truly liberal and humane society and if we continue to aim for that we will not go far wrong. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fry)  adjourned. 
-The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has posed the dilemma facing Australia as being one of high unemployment or high inflation. This is a bullet upon which the Government may well have to bite. What is important to note is that the reasoning which ran through the honourable member's speech is a theme which he has pursued consistently in this Parliament, namely that if you are going to do something about the deficit then unemployment will increase. What we do know is that we have a record deficit now and we also have record unemployment. The honourable member mentioned overseas countries, including the United States, where the level of unemployment and the level of inflation have been roughly comparable at about 8 per cent. The United States apparently elected to have that level of unemployment, unacceptable though it is, in order to have a more acceptable rate of inflation. Perhaps that is the issue which this Government has to be prepared to face up to. One would be reluctant to say in these early days that that would be one of the consequences with which we would have to live. The Australian people have had a relatively full employment situation and a full employment policy for many years. It may well be that in the next few years we will have to live with a higher level of unemployment. That is one of the options which it will be hard to take. But we know that the alternative pursued by the Labor Government was a record deficit, record inflation and record unemployment, and we could not have more of the same. 
The honourable member also has questioned the logic of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  If one looks at some of the previous speeches of the honourable member for Gellibrand one sees that he has recorded his views on Budget deficits. There is something sadly astray in a line of reasoning that there is nothing wrong with the deficit in that sense because it helps to keep unemployment down when the level of the deficit is such that it is not the cause of inflation. The cause is a package of measures pursued by Labor, and that package of measures has been listed ad nauseam by us in opposition and, of course, adverted to again today by the Treasurer. The performance of the Labor Government as economic managers was abysmal, and the people have judged that well and truly. Despite all the red herrings about constitutional crises, the Australian electorate on 13 December judged it on its capacity to manage the economy. The Australian electorate must be taken as being willing to have cuts made in government expenditure and a long, slow rate of recovery which may well carry with it the consequence of a hitherto unacceptable rate of unemployment for some time. 
The Opposition has shown by this debate today and by other comments made in the Address-in-Reply debate that it really learned nothing from its period in government. It ignores the notion of initiatives by this Government, because we heard the shadow treasurer today talking as though we can have some notion of imported prosperity in the way in which we allegedly had imported inflation. We know very well that the performance of the other countries to which the honourable member for Gellibrand referred has been relatively much better than Australia's performance, even bearing in mind that each of the other industrialised countries was subject to the consequences of the oil crisis when we were 70 per cent self-sufficient. Yet we managed to so mismanage our economy that we have a higher rate of inflation than most of those countries. 
The Fraser Government inherited chaos stemming from the old welfare state paternalism with handouts for all regardless of need and regardless of cost to the taxpayer. The pursuit of this policy led to the grave situation which the present Government is trying to rectify. It led to a squeezing dry of the private sector. Yet listening to members of the Opposition speaking this week and last, one still hears them talking as though the money comes from a bottomless pit. We have seen the ruin of thousands of small businesses. We have seen the collection of a record taxation revenue. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand claimed also that the income tax burden which was unacceptably high in 1973-74 has been reduced as a result of the last Budget. That is true for some individuals, but the overall tax burden which has the adverse impact on the economy has in fact increased because income tax revenue in fact has increased markedly. In 1973-74 personal income tax revenue increased by 34.2 per cent. In 1974-75 the increase was 40.5 per cent. In 1973-74 the marginal tax rate on average weekly earnings was 30.3 per cent and in 1974-75 the rate was 38 per cent. So overall the total economy has had to bear an increased burden. Yet the Opposition still has the gall to advocate more of the same. About 75 per cent of persons employed in Australia are employed by the private sector- a point made repeatedly by the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Government tax revenue depends largely on that private sector. Social welfare payments depend largely on the well-being of that sector. Yet it has been milked dry. Reports and surveys of the previous Government, its own departments and the private sector all chronicled the decline of the private sector. But Labor did not listen. The first project of this Government was to stimulate the private sector to start the long haul back to improved conditions for employment and a decrease in the inflation rate. 
When the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was Treasurer he did provide us with a ray of hope. But even he was not able to present a Budget which really gave incentives to individuals and to the private sector in order to begin the recovery. So it is nonsense for the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide, now to say that a recovery was in sight when the Whitlam Government went out of office. Recovery certainly was not in sight because the previous Government had done nothing in its domestic policies to bring it about. 
There has been a lot of talk about the Budget deficit and its purpose. A very delicate balance is facing the present Treasurer, namely, the question whether to cut the rate of growth of spending too harshly. If he were to do that, of course, whilst we would have the reverse of Labor's policies we would have an equally serious consequence for the economy. But not to cut the rate of growth would result in continued acceleration of the rate of inflation which came about under Labor's rule. One can talk about the purpose of the Budget deficit which we have inherited. It was clearly to go on having spending programs at the expense of the private sector and not to stimulate the private sector. This has been a source of money generation. The honourable member for Gellibrand can condemn the monetarists if he will but we have been fortunate that there has been a run down in our international reserves to offset to some extent the expansion of the money supply which would have continued under the record deficit which we have. That is one reason for cutting that deficit. But this run down in our reserves will not continue and it will not continue to offset the conequences of this high deficit. 
The Opposition policy is a shambles. It has been demonstrated and judged by the Australian people to be a shambles. I should like to conclude not by further rebutting assertions of the Opposition but by quoting independent judges of the new Government's policies. One is a large institutional investor who said in a circular to interested persons: 
Corrective mechanisms are beginning to take effect with increasing liquidity reducing commercial interest rates and thus increasing the attractiveness of Government stock. There must therefore be some hope that the imminent loan- 
This was written just before the loan was closed-  will be well subscribed without any change in the present rate structure. It has appeared obvious for some time that bank overdraft rates would be reduced and current opinion strongly supports a change now. If this happens then bank term deposit rates will reduce, there will be flow on effects to Building Societies and a downward adjustment to Treasury Note rates. The present Government interest rate- 
In New South Wales. The statement continues: 
The present Government interest rate structure would look more attractive still in this context. 
In answer to the honourable member for Gellibrand, what is important is the United States experience of about 18 months ago. There interest rates firmed when similar techniques to those which we have employed were applied but then, when the recovery came, slowly but surely interest rates fell. That can be what we look forward to- a slow recovery, a sure recovery in which for the time being interest rates will firm. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
I ask the Treasurer whether he is aware of suggestions that the Economic Consultative Group would be strengthened by the addition of a person who is engaged in small business. If so, has the Treasurer decided to act upon that suggestion? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Has he received representations from pharmaceutical companies and pharmacists regarding the deletion of items from the Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits as from 1 April 1976? If so, is it a fact that when such items are included in the Schedule, the producing companies and pharmacists are expected to have ample supplies available for prescription throughout Australia? Does the Minister agree that one month's notice of deletions from the Schedule will cause severe loss both to producing companies and pharmacists? If the Minister is unable to extend the present period of notice will he assure the House that he will endeavour to give more adequate notice should further deletions be necessary? 
I should like to be able in this debate to reply to my old friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  but I will not do so because I really was not sure what he was talking about. I do not mean that with any great disrespect, but I did have difficulty in following what the honourable member was saying. It seemed to me that he was drawing upon some atavistic unreason of another day, the relevance of which to this legislation I did not understand. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  has answered eloquently some of the remarks of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  including the question of the overall benefits of this scheme compared with the schemes of the States and the relevance of the amendment moved by the Opposition which, if passed, would have the effect of defeating the Bill. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I ask the honourable member for Lang to cease interjecting. 
I agree with a great deal of what has been said by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I do not think, however, that he does himself justice when he says that he is a protectionist as against free traders. I think that too much time has been spent in Australia debating under these 2 labels. It is important to recognise that there are most commendable principles adopted in the ministerial statement, the principles of efficiency, resource allocation and manageable change. But it is also important to recognise that certain people who will be affected by this plan, by this ministerial policy, will not have received and will not receive adequate notice of change under the policy as it now stands. That means that whether they have invested their capital or their labour they are not receiving sufficient notice of the proposed change. Perhaps the reference by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  to the Temporary Assistance Authority is meant to accommodate that but I do not believe that that goes far enough. 
I should say that I am in full agreement with the broad aims of the policy. I believe that the aims are effectively stated by the Minister in these terms at page 1129 of  Hansard  of 30 March 1976: 
The Government's policy is directed towards gradual restructuring of local manufacturing to achieve increased competitiveness, and more freedom of choice for consumers. 
That is an important aim. However, I would like to make 2 comments. Firstly, this aim should apply more clearly than it now does to the component parts manufacturers; and secondly, there are too many vehicle builders under this plan. We have come back to 5 builders. This point has been made by other speakers and I agree with it. One has to ask: At what cost do we get a rationalisation back to three or two? Such a rationalisation must come if we are to achieve the aim of other statements which are in the policy in respect of the economic viability of the industry. There are many hard questions unanswered by this ministerial statement. For example the Minister, as recorded on pages 1128 and 1129 of  Hansard,  said: 
High costs of production in Australia, resulting mainly from the smallness of the domestic market and short production runs, mean that the higher the level of Australian content in vehicles the less competitive they become against imports and to the extent that higher protection is provided the greater is their price to consumers. Some relaxation of local content requirements is necessary if the Australian vehicle builders are to remain viable with acceptable levels of protection in the longer term. 
One has to ask: What is an acceptable level of protection in the longer term, and how does the Minister demonstrate the earlier assertions which indeed are very hotly contested about higher production costs in Australia. 
Perhaps I should justify my last remark by referring to the Industries Assistance Commission  Report on Passenger Motor Vehicles, Etc.,  dated 10 July 1974. Table 5.8 on page 82 of the report is headed: 'Price Disadvantages for Locally Produced Vehicles Under Reference'. The figures are given on a percentage basis and the vehicle categories are as follows: Small light, large light, medium, upper medium, light commercial and 4-wheel drive. It is fairly clear from that table that the least protection is given to vehicles which have the highest Australian content. It is by no means clear that there are high cost components in the high Australian content production. It is also not clear that one can make an easy cost comparison between the particular component parts produced in Australia and corresponding component parts produced elsewhere. Certainly the IAC only went only as far as comparing category by category and that is an important point. 
How do the principles which I have just quoted relate to the components industry as opposed to the vehicle builders themselves? The Minister said, as recorded on page 1129 of  Hansard: 
At the 95 per cent level, costs of local componentry became so high that vehicles were non-competitive with imports. 
That is the matter to which I have just referred. I believe that by implication serious doubt is cast upon that statement by the IAC's own report. I do not believe that one can ascertain clearly the actual cost of component parts. If one looks at page 1 130 of  Hansard  one sees the following important statement:  . . . that local content of components be determined after a 2-year phase-in period on the basis of the cost to the vehicle producer less the value of any parts imported by the component manufacturer. 
This is a most important point which causes great embarrassment to component parts manufacturers. They are now forced to say to vehicle manufacturers how much they are paying for the imported content of any of their components. There may be only one small imported element of the component they are making. But the vehicle builder can easily work out from the information which he has about the equipment and the information he is now given just what the cost of the original equipment purchasing is. This is an invasion of privacy as far as the component parts manufacturers are concerned. It is a serious invasion of a traditional market principle that one does not disclose this kind of information. 
I think it is important to add that on page 1 1 30 the Minister committed himself when he said: 
However, if a viable motor industry is to continue in Australia considerable changes will be needed in the industry's structure and the nature of manufacturing operations in Australia. 
He went on to say: 
The Government's policy has been developed to ensure change occurs in a manageable and controlled manner. Consideration is being given to appropriate structural adjustment measures to assist an orderly transition. 
One has to ask: Are these decisions being made with regard to the component parts industry? To what extent has the Minister had discussions with the component parts industry? As I understand it, the panel on the motor industry has not met since October of last year. It has not met since the present Government came into being. 
The Minister made a most important statement on page 1130 when he said: 
Consistent with the decision to include actual content in local content calculations the Government had decided that component manufacturing programs would cease from 1 January 1978. The Government will also continue to encourage all moves by manufacturers designed to increase component commonality. 
One has to ask: How is this component commonality to be achieved? In the component sector 2 years ago 30 000 people were employed. Now there are 20 000 persons employed and further retrenchments will follow the adoption of this policy. This is especially true- and this comes to the nub of the problem facing the component parts sector- if current reversion controls are removed. Much of what the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said regarding the gradual restructuring of the component parts sector makes a great deal of sense. I think it is implicit in the reasoning of the ministerial statement that high cost components will be purchased overseas, but the interesting thing is that that is not necessarily so. At least 35 cases have been brought before the Government under the existing reversion control provisions, and yet there is no pattern in the manner in which these applications have been made- no pattern which relates to the high cost element or the margin of disability on costs of local producers, as best that can be ascertained, with respect to the costs of overseas component parts manufacturers. 
On that basis it is wrong to assume that only the expensive component parts will be imported. There may be all kinds of commercial reasons why vehicle builders will decide to continue to purchase high cost components domestically. Of course, the Government can say legitimately that that is a matter for the market place and not a matter for government interference, but in relation to the component parts manufacturers one has to say that unless the reversion policy remains under the control of the Government, the Government will be leaving the component parts manufacturers to the mercy of the multinational car manufactures. Many of those component parts manufacturers are Australian owned companies and they will be left to the capacity of the vehicle builders to bargain or bully. Many of the vehicle builders have their own component parts manufacturers overseas. I believe that it is a serious mistake to phase out the reversion controls in the way in which the Minister has indicated. 
Another presumed reasoning in this statement is that jobs may be lost in the component industry but gained elsewhere. That may be true, but problems may arise in the short term which could be avoided by gradual restructuring of the component industry. I repeat that this statement is silent upon that and that is a very important point. Another assumption implicit in the statement is that consumer costs will fall when the Australian content is reduced. That is not demonstrable, nor is it demonstrable that the rate of increase in the cost of component parts in Australia, and therefore of the vehicles themselves, will be reduced. In fact, one has to remember that while we have 5 manufacturers, as this plan encourages, the standardisation of components will be more difficult. Until we have some rationalisation again, we will find that when Australian content is reduced the Australian consumer will be paying higher prices. How can 5 manufacturers produce economies of scale? There must be an additional cost to the consumer? 
I agree with the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  that the crunch decision must be taken in due course and that whichever party is then in power must face up to that decision. That is when we will have to be Australians and not residents of South Australia or Geelong. Meanwhile, the honourable member for Corio and others have made most important points about the gradual restructuring of the components parts industry. I repeat that for the benefit of those who have invested their capital so that they can redeploy that capital for the benefit of this country, for those who have invested their labour, so that in turn they can be retrained- and this statement is silent upon the retraining of employees- those problems have to be grappled with when the crunch decision comes. 
Another important observation to be made is that this plan has 2 sides to it, the reduction from 95 per cent to 85 per cent on the one hand, and the bringing of Japanese manufacturers up to an 85 per cent content level on the other hand. As it appears now, the reduction from 95 per cent to 85 per cent will probably proceed faster than will the bringing up of the Japanese section to 85 per cent. That means that the 2 arms of the plan are out of kilter and that will cause problems for the component parts manufacturers, too. The gradual restructuring of the components industry, therefore, could well correspond with the phasing in of the Japanese entry into the Australian market, and I think that that is a most important aspect. One solution to the problem of the component parts industry, and one way in which this could be tackled gradually, would be to make the reversion controls continue at least for as long as the phasing in of the Japanese industry is contemplated. During that period the Government will have to grapple with the very hard questions raised in the report and not answered in this ministerial statement. Otherwise the principles on which it proceeds are commendable, but the short term problems are very great and are largely ignored by this statement. 
I share the views of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  in welcoming this statement. I believe that it is an excellent statement. I would wish however to repudiate one assertion by the honourable member to the effect that in this statement there is an assumption that we can turn the tap on and off according to economic circumstances. The position set out in this paper is just the opposite. Before we can get a rational policy of the sort to which the honourable member has referred, we need more data. That is one of the underlying themes, indeed the main underlying theme, in this statement by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  This is one of the statements on which we must commend the Minister most. 
The Minister has said that at the moment he is considering further increases in the capacity of his Department to analyse data. That means not just domestically but to make comparative studies with comparable industrial economies. I would urge the Minister to extend strongly the facilities of his Department in this regard. I say that merely because of the fact that we do need information to have the rational policy to which the honourable member for Melbourne has referred. The work of the Australian Bureau of Statistics is well known and well respected, but we do need an analysis of more than just domestic statistics as illustrated by the closing remarks of the honourable member when he referred to Canada. I think he has made some valid points in terms of drawing a comparison between Canada and Australia. We cannot have those confident analyses unless we have further activity by the Department, so I hope that the Minister will see his way clear to extending those facilities. 
The idea of a Green Paper to which the Minister has referred is also most important and will go a long way to achieving the objectives stated by the honourable member for Melbourne. It is the clear objective of this Government. It is the logical sequence of events after the Borrie report. There is a need for the Green Paper and subsequently, one would assume, for a White Paper. This should be obvious to anyone who has read the ministerial statement and anyone who purports to be interested in the development of 
Australia should find this statement compulsory reading. 
The statement points out, first of all, that like almost all industrial economies our fertility rates are declining. Secondly, likewise our migration rates are declining rapidly and have declined dramatically. Thirdly, our traditional sources of migrants have the same problem; that is, they are industrialised economies too and they are finding their fertility rates are declining. We are heading for a situation of zero population growth and in some measure we have reached that point. We have a chance of stabilising unless we find other sources. So we must ask: What other sources do we want? What levels of migrant intake do we require? The statement ably shows that we will become an ageing society without some migration. This will be all the more true with the trend to early retirement. There is a need for a national debate on informed data and the cost benefit analysis which was commissioned by the McMahon Government is still awaited. If that is not substantial when it comes more work will need to be done. We have had in the last 5 years in Australia a largely uninformed debate and this uninformed level of debate will continue until that cost benefit data is available. 
Society has to balance in its consideration of these matters the cost of migration to meet demands for goods and services such as schools, hospitals, roads and so on and the contribution which our migrants make to industry and to investment flowing from the expansion of industry. We have at this time a problem of undercapacity in industry, a need for a building up of that capacity, a need for more overtime and a need for new investments. Society will therefore have to balance the question of whether we now require migrants in the short term in certain semi-skilled and unskilled areas and certain other skilled areas so that we can get the economy moving without their becoming factory fodder and without perpetuating the problems of factory fodder to which the honourable member for Melbourne rightly referred. That has to be balanced against the cost of new capital equipment which will so alter the nature of the system of work as to improve the quality of working life and make it more comparable than it now is to the quality of life outside the work place. The situation we now have with our declining fertility in migration rates is that we face a rundown of labour intensive industries. So we have to ask: Do we want more technology? Do we want more precision industries with a lower labour content, with higher skills or more capital? That, of course, raises many obvious questions too. 
Questions such as those are bound up with the answers to questions about our national goals, and the Minister talks about finding population policies which are appropriate to the national objectives. Towards the end of his statement he implies that these national objectives relate to improving our standard of living and our quality of life. Thus, he observes, that if we were to have no real population increase we would adversely affect these aspirations because we would transfer resources away from education and investment in productive processes to services, both government and private, for an increasing population of retired persons. If Australia wishes to continue to increase its population in order to increase the standard of living of all, including the new arrivals, we need urgently the costbenefit data to which I refer. Only then can we determine the desirable level of migrants and the sources of migrants. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Could the Treasurer say when the Government intends to introduce a natural disasters insurance scheme? 
-Much has been said in this debate which shows the broad and complex nature of the foreign investment policy. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  and others have touched on many issues which have shown us that it is impossible to cover the subject in the 10 minutes which have been allotted to us, but in the 10 minutes I have I wish to touch on some of the matters which will have to be dealt with by the Foreign Investment Review Board when it commences its work. 
First, the 50 per cent rule will prove very difficult in practice unless the Board can assist in formulating a public education program that encourages small investors to invest in the exploration and development projects to which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has referred. It is a fact of life that Australians have been short term thinking regarding high risk, long term projects. The Australian capital market may, as the Treasurer has said, be continuously improving its capacity to invest in such ventures, but it has a long way to go. The Board may well make recommendations of its own regarding its own place in the educational program which will be necessary. In doing this it will be aided by the obligation imposed upon it by the Treasurer to have foreign exploration companies advising it annually of the details of their forward exploration.programs. 
Secondly, while the Treasurer's statement and its attachment set out the criteria for the examination of foreign investment proposals, foreign investors still have the problem of ascertaining the weight, the interpretations and the value judgments which the Board may give and make when applying those criteria. The honourable member for Macarthur has touched on many of the difficulties involved in that respect. Those criteria are set out in the attachment at page 1290 of  Hansard  of 1 April. They are a detailed and comprehensive response by the Treasurer to sentiments which seem to be widely held in the community. The price which the community may well have to pay for those sentiments, for the evaluation of the foreign investment proposals, may be a slower rate of national economic growth and therefore a slower rate of improvement in individual living standards, especially material standards. In the case by case study which the Board will have to do it will need to develop a coherent and reasonably predictable set of rules for the application of these criteria. Uncertainty or undue delay could well drive potential investors away from Australia. 
This system of precedence leads to another question, that is, the extent to which the deliberations of the Board should be made public. The case of takeovers is a controversial one. One would say that in that case it should not be. There has been a great deal of criticism of the Foreign Takeovers Committee for virtually offering an offeree company to competitors of the offeror. Even the public announcement of the fact that the takeover is being investigated by the Committee has had this effect. But in the case of new ventures some public record of the findings of the administration of the criteria would no doubt have a great deal of positive impact on potential investors. They then might view investment in Australia more favourably, whereas an uncertain situation stemming from secrecy could only deter such investors. The final duty which is imposed upon the Board at page 1287 of  Hansard  is certainly very pertinent. 
Thirdly, the statement shows clearly that there is much more to the question of control than equity. The application of Australian laws in matters such as those set out in the criteria is allimportant in relation to control. In addition, it is also important that foreign companies be obliged to provide information similar to that required regularly from public companies by stock exchanges. There is no doubt that listing requirements do lead companies to make greater disclosures than those made by non-listed companies. I believe that there are many reasons why the Government should encourage the idea of listing foreign companies on our stock exchanges. The mere fact that such companies would make disclosures would be reported in the local media. That would remove much of the possibility of their acting contrary to Australia's national interests, that is, contrary to the criteria set out in the Treasurer's statement. It is the fears by Australians that somehow foreign companies not making that disclosure will act contrary to Australia's national interests that underlie the setting of the criteria. Foreign companies would, if they were listed on our stock exchanges, be obliged to report to the exchanges on the acquisition and disposal of their major assets. They would be obliged to indicate their dividend policies and to explain their performances for the year. A foreign company listed locally would then find it harder to stand a loss in Australia in order to make profits elsewhere. That is another fear underlying some of the emotion in the foreign investment debate in recent years. This comment has been made by the Jackson Committee in volume 1 of its report at page 198 and by  Mr Valder,  the  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange, as reported in the  Australian Financial Review of  5 April. 
Before closing I would like to make a few other brief references. First, there is and there will remain the problem of the definition of a foreign company. This is one of the matters which I am sure the honourable member for Macarthur had in mind when he expressed uncertainty about the ministerial statement. There is a problem in Australia with Australian companies which regard themselves as really being Australian companies but which because they or a subsidiary have some foreign equity holding are classified here as foreign companies. They are Australian managed and in many respects they meet the criteria set out in the Treasurer's statements; yet they are classified as foreign companies. When they go abroad, whether it be to New Zealand or any of our other neighbours, and become multi-national companies they are still classified as foreign companies. This makes it very difficult. It is not just irksome; it can be and has been an inhibition to investment in Australia by overseas companies coming into a minor partnership situation with wholly or what have been previously wholly Australian companies. 
Secondly, there may well need to be provision for appeal from or at least some review of the proceedings and decisions of the Review Board. This is something which will have to be given consideration by the Treasurer and by the Board itself. Thirdly, the procedures of the Board, the procedures themselves and the legislation when it comes to this House should stress the need for expeditious decision making by the Board. As I have said before, any slow decisions would have an adverse impact on investment. Fourthly, there ought to be a greater use of foreign loan funds to supplement equity brought from overseas. This would supplement not only equity but also portfolio investment. This greater use of foreign or overseas loan funds would support the aim of the Government in increasing Australian control because it would boost our scarcest commodity which, of course, is capital. This question of overseas loan funds is of great importance when it comes to the expansion of existing companies in Australia. 
There is of course a limit to such borrowings. There is a limit for reasons which are related to our balance of payments situation as well as to the financial structure of the companies themselves but borrowings should be encouraged in the future. My 10 minutes have expired. Time limits always make debates on complex matters unsatisfactory, but with these, I hope, constructive comments I do genuinely support the thoughtful statement of the Treasurer. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  like myself, has had a deep interest in this subject of natural disaster insurance for a long time. He began to make a very thoughtful and constructive contribution today. Despite the fact that Standing Orders were suspended to enable the two of us to have 30 minutes each for our contributions to a very serious discussion of the subject, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  spoke for a few minutes after the honourable member for Hawker concluded. Before the honourable member for Oxley was interrupted he referred to the people of Gladstone and to the Port Curtis by-election in Queensland. I do not think that people in Queensland or anywhere else in Australia would appreciate - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! There is too much audible conversation. 
I am indebted to the honourable member for Hindmarsh. The people of Australia are interested in this subject of natural disaster insurance. They do not want to see it become a cheap political plaything. It was not worthy of the contribution by the honourable member for Hawker, who led for the Opposition, to convert the discussion into a cheap political plaything. I believe that he spoiled his speech by his closing remarks. He had referred to a bipartisan approach and to the need for a bipartisan approach. After that he introduced a red herring by referring to the Insurance Act. It was sought by the insurance industry and willingly negotiated by the McMahon Government. That Government lost office before it was able to have that Act passed. The initiative of the McMahon Government was carried on by the Whitlam Government. That has nothing to do with the question of natural disaster insurance. It has a great deal to do with the solvency of insurance companies. That is true. The honourable member for Hawker nods in agreement with the point I am making. I think it is unfair to overlook the desires of the industry in this respect. 
The only serious criticism I want to make of the speech of the honourable member for Hawker is first of all to remind the House and the Australian people that- it may not have been the fault of the honourable member for Hawker- the Whitlam Government made great play of its contribution to the reconstruction of Darwin, but the reconstruction of Darwin in terms of the Government's responsibility has not proceeded. What has been done has been done substantially by the private insurance companies- the ones which the Australian Labor Party always seemed to be attacking. These insurance companies have provided four-fifths of the money paid by way of insurance and compensation to the residents of Darwin. The second point to which I refer is the question of reinsurance. Because of the noise in the chamber I was not able to hear all that the honourable member for Hawker said, but underlying his comments there seemed to be a misapprehension about the role of reinsurance and some condemnation of the Australian insurance companies on the basis that most of the reinsurance was done overseas and therefore most of the money paid in respect of natural disasters came from overseas. 
I am sorry. The honourable member says that he did not say that. Other persons in the Opposition have alleged from time to time that Australian companies should be able to . provide the money. Indeed, an underlying thought in the proposal for an Australian government insurance corporation seemed to be that we could provide all our own reinsurance. In point of fact even in the big North American market that is not the case. If it cannot provide all the money to insure against the risks certainly a small market like Australia cannot do so. 
The motion calls as a matter of general principle for the introduction of a natural disaster insurance scheme. As the honourable member for Hawker acknowledged, the Government is firmly committed to the introduction of a natural disaster insurance scheme and it will do so as soon as it is practicable. I emphasise that the Government has decided to introduce such a scheme. On 4 March the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  announced that the Government had decided to introduce a scheme and that it had established a working party to work out the details of such a scheme. That working party is obliged to report back to the Treasurer with a detailed scheme within 4 months, which would make it late June or early July. In summarising the development leading up to this decision by the Government, I am in substantial agreement with the honourable member for Hawker. In fact the need for improvements in the arrangements for protecting the community against losses to property arising from natural disasters was highlighted in January 1974 by the floods in the Brisbane River valley. Further emphasis was placed upon this need when we had the disaster of Cyclone Tracy in December 1974. Both disasters were of massive proportions. They both involved claims on the private insurance industry for amounts totalling, in the case of Brisbane, in excess of $88m and, in the case of Darwin, in excess of $2 1 7m. In Darwin the claims involved $ 1 4 1 m on 6500 private dwellings. The Darwin disaster is reputed to be the greatest insurance loss of all time in Australia. In fact a greater proportion of property insured was damaged or destroyed than in any other event in Australian insurance history. That is a serious state of affairs and it has registered to all Australians the importance of a scheme consistent with the principle we are now debating. 
One of the tragic aftermaths of the Brisbane floods was the realisation that a very low percentageindeed, as low as 10 per cent- of private dwellings in Brisbane was covered by flood insurance. It was found that many people were unaware of the fact that their ordinary fire and household policies contained storm and tempest cover but did not extend to flood cover. They were also unaware that flood insurance could be obtained from many insurers for the payment of an extra premium. After the Brisbane floods, for obvious reasons flood insurance became more difficult to obtain because of the threat of insolvency which it placed on insurance companies. Those which still gave it had to increase their premiums greatly. Following the Brisbane floods the Labor Government accepted the offer by the general insurance industry to examine ways of extending natural disaster insurance. This examination by officers of the departments proceeded when Labor was in power but, as we know, the contribution of the insurance industry was not acknowledged and understood. 
Another piece of legislation was introduced called the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill which was purporting to cure the problem of natural disaster insurance. It used the term 'national interest' but it never used the term 'natural disaster'. Under the guise of those clauses, it endeavoured to give the Government entry into all forms of general insurance. When the industry approached the Whitlam Government it was concerned that the general ignorance by the insuring public of the extent of cover given by existing housing policies should be corrected. It was concerned that these did not normally include cover for floods and that there would be increased premiums as a result, falling very severely on those in flood prone areas. Let me say by way of slight digression that one of the things the Labor Government said in making a plaything of this natural disaster cover was that the only people who were properly covered were those in defence forces homes or homes which were subject to war service loans. That is because no such loan would be granted to persons who were building in flood prone areas. But ordinary members of the public have been inclined to build in flood prone areas. 
The industry went to the Government because it was concerned about the deficiencies in this respect. It had been concerned also about the uninformed and very extensive criticism being made of the industry. The industry was not merely concerned with its reputation; it was also concerned with its survival. The honourable member for Hawker has acknowledged the difficulties which arise concerning the solvency of insurance companies. That is bound up with the operation of the Insurance Act. The insurance industry was and remains deeply concerned that further natural disasters of the magnitude of Cyclone Tracy could endanger the solvency of individual companies and of the industry as a whole. I am in agreement with the honourable member for Hawker and the honourable member for Oxley who said that Australia could well be prone to further natural disasters. One hopes that they would not be of that magnitude. Nevertheless we have to be prepared. That is the reason for the Government treating this question of natural disaster insurance as being of top priority. 
One of the important facts in the matter of solvency is that Australian owned companies are hit more savagely because they simply cannot spread their risks on a world wide basis the way some of the larger companies do. But it would be wrong to think that the larger ones are in a secure position. They are only relatively better off. As matters now stand there is a very great possibility that insurance companies, because of concern for their solvency, may not be able to continue to write certain classes of insurance. Amongst those that they could not continue to write would be for catastrophe cover for structures in natural disaster prone areas. In addition, since Cyclone Tracy, catastrophe reinsurance cover, which is obtainable mainly overseas, has become very much harder to purchase and, when obtainable, it is at prices as much as 1000 per cent higher than those charged 3 years ago. In point of fact what was charged 3 years ago- my friend the honourable member for Hawker agrees with this- was unrealistic. 
In reports to the Labor Government by the Insurance Conference Committee, a very widely representative group of insurance companies, proposals were made for the introduction of a natural disaster insurance scheme in Australia to compensate for the loss of or damage to private property by flood, earthquake and tropical cyclones. These recommendations stemmed from the industry's belief that it was capable of providing suitable insurance cover for property losses arising from other types of natural disaster. The industry believes that the natural disaster fund could cope with those 3 items I have mentioned and that the industry itself could cope with the other forms of natural disaster. The Labor Government ordered the Treasury to examine these proposals. A detailed examination of these reports by officials revealed a large number of complex issues involving a considerable amount of research and discussion both with industry representatives and within government. The honourable member for Hawker has shown a keen awareness of these issues and certainly recognises the difficulties. 
This examination by the officials also extended to a number of alternative approaches to that put forward by the insurance industry itself. The honourable member for Hawker has canvassed some of these alternative options. The question of schemes operating in other countries has been examined and this is certainly one which has occupied the attention of the officials. It would be premature and imprudent of me today to canvass in detail some of the pitfalls which might arise from some of the proposals made by the honourable member for Hawker. But he can rest assured that his views will be taken into consideration by the working party which is due to report to the Treasurer in late June or early July. 
It is necessary to examine in detail the various natural disaster schemes which are operating overseas, particularly in the United States of America and Switzerland. The honourable member for Hawker referred to crop insurance. Of course this is one of the most vexed questions of all. It is very difficult. As I have said, it would be imprudent of me to comment on what might eventuate from that but the question is fraught with enormous difficulties. It is so easy for certain people in this House to say glibly that something should be done; it is another thing to be able to devise a scheme which is practical and efficient and is a sensible use of our scarcest resource, which is capital. 
I will not comment on that. I just highlight it by saying what a difficult matter it is. There are certain people in the rural industries who certainly underrate the difficulties involved. While these overseas schemes are of considerable assistance in identifying the problems of any scheme which may be introduced in Australia, it is necessary that we remember in this House that we have to devise an Australian scheme which is designed for the types of natural disasters which we are likely to have in Australia. The object of tailoring overseas experience to Australian conditions in our own natural disaster insurance scheme is of paramount importance to this Government. This is the reason we have established the working party to which I have referred. The present Government recognised the urgent need for improved natural disaster insurance arrangements. This was a consideration behind the decision announced by the Treasurer on 4 March in response to a question by the honourable member for Hawker. The decision had in fact been taken by the Government before that. The Government has therefore agreed in principle to the introduction of natural disaster insurance in Australia and it has approved that the working party bring in proposals as soon as possible. 
The Government considers that any natural disaster insurance scheme must be placed on a stable and viable footing. At the time of the announcement of the Government's decision it was evident that a great deal of analysis and consultation remained to be carried out before a viable and workable natural disaster insurance scheme could be brought into operation. The Government is indebted to the co-operation of the insurance industry in this regard. I and others have had discussions with representatives of the industry and we are certainly hopeful of getting a practical scheme at the end of these consultations. But this is the reason the task of developing a scheme was given to a small working party of very senior Commonwealth officials who represent the departments which have a specific interest in the development of a scheme. The working party is now actively engaged in the preparation of research and analysis of the various options available. Its discussions have included representatives of the insurance industry who have themselves modified and improved the original submissions which they made to the Whitlam Government prior to cyclone Tracy. 
In addition, it is important to recognise that the States have a role in this. The Federal Government is now engaged in discussions with the States. The States have always had a responsibility for alleviating the stress and the hardship which arises from natural disasters. The Premiers have all been invited to comment on any matters of relevance to the formulation of a scheme. I think it is worth stressing that in the past natural disasters have been dealt with by Federal and State governments in a rather  ad hoc  way and it is now desirable to formulate a systematic federalist approach to this serious problem. I hope that in doing that, as we now have a spirit of silence in the House, we will indeed have a bipartisan approach and we will not have these serious matters of human anguish made a political plaything again. 
A significant lesson emerging from studies made to date by the working party is that there are many pitfalls which must be avoided in developing a successful natural disaster insurance scheme. While the Government is anxious to see a scheme operating as soon as possible, it is equally anxious to ensure that the scheme is placed on a sound footing from the outset. We have had enough gimmickry, enough ideas of plans which have been established which in fact could not deliver the goods. So from the outset we want a sound, workable, efficient scheme which will not create false expectations but which will take account of the likely calamities arising from future natural disasters which may strike our country. At the same time, the Government believes that the scheme should make full use of existing and potential insurance services, facilitate implementation of policies for mitigation of risks arising from natural disasters and encourage people to protect their own interests as far as possible. 
For these reasons it would be irresponsible, if not nigh impossible, for the Government to introduce a natural disaster scheme forthwith. That is what the motion now before us calls for. A great deal of preparatory work must be done before any successful and viable scheme can be brought in. Experience overseas has shown that precipitate action by government in bringing in similar schemes without adequate preparation has resulted in greatly wasted expenditure by government without adequate solution to the problem. For this reason great caution must be exercised in the formulation of a natural disaster insurance scheme. Premature action by the Government to introduce a scheme before it is adequately analysed could produce a scheme insufficient for the requirements placed upon it. An inadequate scheme would not alleviate the hardships caused by natural disasters but would squander taxpayers' money, and this Government is determined not to do that. Enough of that has occurred in Australia in the last 3 years. We do not wish to be open to criticism for wasting taxpayers' money; we are prepared to be open to any criticism for waiting a few more months and considering a practical and viable scheme. 
The honourable member for Hawker, who is a reasonable man, has shown today that he knows very well the dilemma now facing the Government. He is right to remind us and the Australian people of the need for such a scheme. But it would be unreal for the House to pass a motion calling for a scheme forthwith. In those circumstances I shall move an amendment to the motion seeking to delete the word 'forthwith' from the motion as proposed by the honourable member for Hawker. If that amendment is accepted the motion as passed will represent a unanimous view of this House about the need for a responsible natural disaster scheme as soon as practicable. On that basis, I move: 
Omit 'forthwith', substitute 'as soon as practicable'. 
Is the amendment seconded? 
-The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has just ably illustrated why this Bill is necessary. He has illustrated why, in his period as Treasurer, investment declined in Australia. He talked about market forces. If things were left to market forces today we would have no investment. The whole purpose of this legislation is to encourage investment. It is to be applied uniformly and over a period of time so that companies know where they are and have the inducement to make investments even when they have, as at present, under-utilisation of their resources. Of course they are under-utilised and there would be scant investment. Last night the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  made it clear that this measure was designed to complement the consumer recovery which we hope will come. We are not relying on consumer recovery alone but on stimulating investment so that the two will go together to bring about an increase in productivity, a consequent reduction in inflation and a reduction in unemployment. 
This a medium term measure in its effect although there is already substantial evidence, contrary to what one might have expected, that many companies are taking advantage of the investment allowance even though they have still about a 70 per cent utilisation of their present capacity. That is because of the inducement and because of the inducement extending over a period of time. This is a very complex measure. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  made reference to two of the great complexities. One complexity relates to the completion dates where this long period of time is necessary. Of course, the honourable member mentioned the matter of industrial action. I endorse all his remarks. I see great merit in the spirit of the amendment which he proposes. I hope that between now and when this measure goes to the Senate the Government will give consideration to moving in the Senate an amendment in the spirit which is suggested. In relation to completion dates for other purposes, I make some specific comments. The Minister mentioned the chemical industry. I think it is appropriate if I quote some comments which have been made in relation to the completion dates, especially as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports has been critical of this aspect. A statement by the Chemical Industry Council which the Government is currently considering, states: 
Some important industries which are suppliers of basic needs to many other Australian industries are highly capital, intensive. The Chemical Industry is such an industry. The construction of new production units now required to satisfy future needs may take more than 3 years from the decision to invest until the unit is commissioned. 
Thus a new manufacturing unit initiated in the near future may not be commissioned until after June 1979 and in consequence the entire investment would, under the present provision of the Bill, qualify for an allowance at only the 20 per cent rate. In many cases there would be uncertainty at the time of the investment decision as to whether the investment would qualify for a 40 per cent or a 20 per cent allowance. We believe this uncertainty is contrary to the Government's intentions, which were to increase investors' confidence by making long term, clearly defined commitments to encourage new investment. -It is anomalous that major projects, involving substantial immediate business to the engineering and construction industries, providing lasting increases in employment and productivity and safeguarding the country's future basic material needs, should be offered less positive inducement than small investments. 
Smaller investments, possibly only involving replacement of capital equipment and thus having relatively less impact on the national economy, can be completed in a shorter time span and thus reliably qualify for the full 40 per cent allowance. 
This anomaly could be largely avoided by comparatively simple amendments to the Bill and we suggest that, as a minimum, provision be made for any new manufacturing unit initiated on or after 1 January 1976 and before 1 July 1978 to qualify for the 40 per cent investment allowance in respect of all expenditure and contractual commitments incurred before 1 July 1979; the rate applicable to any expenditure incurred after that date to fall to 20 per cent. Similarly provisions might be made in respect of the second phase, i.e. for any new unit initiated on or after 1 July 1978 and before 1 July 1983, an allowance at the rate of 20 per cent should apply in respect of all expenditure and contractual commitments incurred before 1 July 1984. 
I have read that statement because I believe that the contents are relevant to the Bill. I hope the Government will consider this. I know the Minister has before him a draft recommendation. I daresay that taxation officers will point out that it was drawn up by a lay draftsman. In fact, it was written by one of Australia's most eminent Queen's Counsel worthy, in the eyes of his colleagues, to be on the High Court. Lay counsel though he might be, the recommendation will go before the Parliamentary Counsel for his opinion to see whether those amendments can be made without altering the fundamental character of the Bill. Another matter to which I wish to refer- I know that other honourable members want to refer to it too- relates to the hiring industry. Some reference has been made to this matter. I believe that this Bill has failed to understand the important contribution which the hiring industry makes to Australia. It fails to understand the ramification of the matter. Another eminent Queen's Counsel is preparing amendments which will be considered by the Treasury Committee comprising Government back bench members. It will go before the Minister. That Committee is indebted to the Minister and to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  for being so co-operative in this regard. 
We hope that we will be able to produce amendments which can be moved in the Senate, after which the Bill can be brought back here. As the matter stands now this simple concept of stimulating investment is a complex measure. In fact, it has led to a great many obstructions and difficulties in interpretation. We understand why the Government wants to get the measure through this Committee today. We certainly hope that the discrimination which is currently brought about by this Bill in respect of the hire industry will be eliminated after due consideration over the weekend. The hire industry has acted in good faith on the basis of statements made by the Treasurer which at no time excluded them from consideration. On all occasions the allowance purported to apply to new plant and equipment and the hire industry saw no reason why it would be excluded when transport and other service industries were included. 
The hire industry also has documented accounts of advice given by the Australian Taxation Office to the effect that provisions involving its operations would be included within the Bill. The Minister did say that at some point there has to be a limit to the cost, and I suppose there has to be a cut off point; but the estimated cost of extending this allowance to the hire industry, thereby making it equal on all terms with other industries, is only a drop in the ocean compared to the Treasury estimate of $470m for the total scheme. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Pons  (Mr Crean)  said that we are spending all this money on industry and will take it away from the poor. If we want to build up productivity and to expand job opportunities in Australia, of course we have to stimulate investment by this means. The money provided is in the nature of a loan from the Government in the sense that when the companies are operating at something like their optimum level they will be paying company tax to the Government and persons will be employed and the economy will again be functioning at something like its proper level. I must stress that under the present provisions the hire industry will be discriminated against. It is a service facility, as opposed to leasing, which is an alternative financial facility to purchase. The hire industry has put before the Minister some very substantial arguments. I believe, from the knowledge which we have been able to gain in the limited time we have had in between debates this week, that the hire industry has made out a very strong case. I must say that I am not so impressed by the Treasury case in reply. I hope that over the next weekend we will be able to clarify this question and assist the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the Treasurer in rectifying what seems to be a severe penalty on that industry. I hope that we will clarify this in the Senate and then again in the House next week. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargable to his 
Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1 974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the definition of a pre-existing illness as referred to under the Medibank scheme. 
Do these illnesses correspond with what were known as special accounts prior to the introduction of Medibank. 
Will he give consideration to extending Medibank to cover such pre-existing illnesses. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1) Is it a fact that people with epilepsy, regardless of the degree of incapacity, are considered unable to meet health requirements for immigration to Australia. 
If so, when was the last time this condition was assessed for the purpose of immigration health requirements. 
If this condition has not been assessed within the last 2 years for the purpose of immigration health requirements, will he consider reviewing the matter in view of the availability of modern drugs to control the effects of this condition. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1) Is it a fact that Telecom Australia and Australia Post have ordered Toyota vans from Japan to be imported fully built up. 
If so, how many vans have been ordered. 
Is it a fact that these vehicles are all of a type previously supplied by Australian manufacturers. 
If these facts are correct, will he explain the reasons underlying the purchases. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are employed by the Department of Education or by agencies responsible to the Minister or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to that Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does the Department of Education or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by the Department of Education or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does the Department of Education or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
1) How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1) How many persons are employed by the Department of Science or by agencies responsible to the Minister or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to that Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does the Department of Science or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by the Department of Science or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does the Department of Science or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
Under what circumstances may his Department let tenders for the construction of buildings and to what extent, if any, does the Department have to have regard to the purchasing policies of the Department of Administrative Services. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Industry and Commerce decided not to proceed with the publication of those volumes of the Green Paper on  Policies fir Development of Manufacturing Industry  which contain specific data. 
If so, what is the justification for such a decision. 
If publication is to proceed when will the volumes be available to the public. 
Is the availability of such data essential for the preparation of high quality submissions to aid the Government in the preparation of a White Paper on manufacturing industry. 
-My question is to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that the legislation establishing Medibank enables him to make regulations for those persons who transferred from private health funds to Medibank to have that service taken into account in the acquisition of Commonwealth long service leave rights? If so, when does the Minister intend to act under the power given to him by the Act. 
I have the same number of farms in my electorate as the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  has in his. I shall resist the temptation to reply to him, except to say that the serious problems of rural industry will not be solved by resort to harangues with outmoded rhetoric. 
My grievance today relates to the plight of back benchers. I think it is a grievance which would be widely shared in this House. It concerns the decision-making process. I am concerned- I believe all persons in Australia should be concerned- at the way in which decisions are made and at the role of Parliament. We know that basically parliamentarians are held in contempt by the community. We know that jokes about politicians are made constantly at various clubs, smoke-nights and so forth. It ought to be a matter of some concern, not because we are thin skinned but because we are not taken seriously in the community. In the position which I previously occupied, whenever I was introduced as having that position people looked at me with what I thought was a certain exaggerated awe. Now, when I am introduced as a member of Parliament, I am greeted with a pretty rough sort of laugh. This is an experience which we all share. 
It ought to be a matter of concern to the community that the media and spokesmen in the community find great glee in attacking politicians and laughing at them each time they want a salary increase or each time they receive an alleged perk. People say now that parliamentarians are amongst the most highly paid people in the community. So they should be. They are by no means overpaid when one considers the role which the community expects them to play. Indeed if one looks at the hourly remuneration one finds that parliamentarians are grossly underpaid. Few of us have time at home to do the handiwork that most people enjoy doing around the home, so we engage persons to do it on hourly rates far in excess of our remuneration. 
My concern today is not about our remuneration, because we will always be told that it is not the right time for an increase in salary. My concern is about the resources which are available to back bench members of Parliament to assist Ministers better to query the advice they receive from public servants. This is important. If one looks at the Congress of the United States of America and at the facilities available to congressmen and senators, one realises that the situation here is absurd. No back benchers have secretarial assistance. We all sit here addressing envelopes and licking them. We do not have the facilities that ordinary clerical people would expect to have available to them. There is a problem with the complexities of modern government. No Minister can seriously be expected on his own to question all the recommendations put to him by his department. There is an important role for back benchers and back bench committees to assist the Minister in implementing the policies which were put to the electorate and upon which the Government is given a mandate. 
There are problems where the non elected persons decide that they know best. I am not having a hate session about public servants but lex us face the human facts about the way the institution is structured. Public servants may well believe that they know what is best for Australia and what is the best use of taxpayers funds, but they are not facing the electorate. The parliamentarians still have that role. There are plenty of case studies available, as every member of this House would know, showing where bureaucrats' policies rather than government policies have been adopted. Obstruction and undue complexities are placed in the way of Ministers in that when they ask for something to be done they are told that it cannot be done. I do not accuse all public servants of that. Of course, many of them are most conscientious in their approach to advising their Ministers and many of them follow the standard approach of saying: 'Well, I believe,  Mr Minister,  that what you are doing is a very foolish thing, but if you must do a foolish thing at least do not do it in a foolish way. ' That is the proper role of public servants. But they get to the point of saying to the Minister. 'It just cannot be done. This is the way to do it.' When the policies put before the Minister are policies of other persons, the community ought to be concerned. 
The back benchers simply do not have the resources to assist Ministers in testing the advice that they are given. Back bench committees are really only a source of gaining information after the event. I believe that back bench committees on both sides of the House have to think through their requirements and have to demand better clerical and research facilities so that they can make an input into the policies of the Government or the Opposition. The community really asks the impossible of its politicians. While despising them on the one hand, it still asks them to do a great many things. We have to be diplomats and social welfare workers, and of course we have to make a contribution to this chamber as well. It should be a matter of public concern. I am not whingeing about the responsibilities of our duties; I am whingeing about the frustrations put in the way of the performance of those duties. 
This generation of parliamentarians must be given more resources or the decision making of this country will be firmly in the hands of second and third generation Canberra public servantspeople who do not have to face the electorate and who are never adequately accountable to the electorate. Again, I am not Public Service bashing. I have said that there are many public servants who genuinely try to make the best out of sometimes foolish policies, but there are others who clearly, for human reasons- for their own personal reasons- set out to make sure that their policies are the policies which are adopted. I am pleading for a better deal for those who have to face the electorate. In the past Ministers, ministries and governments have been too concerned about an adverse public response. Because of the contempt in which the community hold politicians, governments have been afraid that if they gave more resources to back benchers there would be a public outcry: 'They are feathering their own nests'. The community cannot have it both ways. If it wants politicians to perform the tasks for which they are elected they must have the resources, and the media must stop carping about the so-called benefits and perks given to politicians to carry out their duties. 
It is annoying to hear the Australian Broadcasting Commission and other news broadcasts reporting that committees are being set up to keep back benchers occupied, to keep them out of mischief. Do they think that we are sitting twiddling our thumbs when our offices are filled with people with genuine grievances and complaints? We are giving great" assistance to people. The Labor Government introduced the idea of a second person on the staff of back benchers. We now have 2 persons. I am sure that it is the experience of almost every member that they are both very busy indeed. We also know that the library facilities here are very good but we need time to make the maximum use of those facilities. We ought to have secretarial staff in Canberra. There ought to be more sensible procedures in the Parliament itself so that we can actually sit down and do something for a couple of hours at a time instead of racing in and out of the chamber because quorums and divisions are called. I have said this before and others have said similar things. It is a matter of concern that we have still taken no action to schedule divisions for a set time of day so that we can set about in committees and do things in a constructive fashion. 
The sitting hours of Parliament are absurd. How can we make decisions sitting for a condensed period of about 72 hours in this building, from 8 a.m. to midnight? How can anybody expect sensible, balanced decisions to be made when everyone is on the point of dropping from exhaustion? This is not a sensible thing to do. The report of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System will be debated, I trust, in the next session of Parliament. I hope that more back benchers will take the opportunity to make a contribution about their views on procedures, debates and expenditure to enable the Expenditure Committee better to make a more efficient and economic use of taxpayers' funds. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the means test for additional benefits for pensioners has not been reviewed since 1 969. 
If so, in view of the consistent rise in the cost of living arid the hardship experienced by pensioners on fixed income, is any consideration being given to reviewing the means test on such additional benefits. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies m the financial year 1 974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are employed by his Departmenor by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his 
Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1 974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many persons are employed by the Department of Social Security or by agencies responsible to the Minister or her Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to that Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does the Department of Social Security or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by the Department of Social Security or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does the Department of Social Security or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance for the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum had been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
Under what circumstances may the Department of Administrative Services purchase real property. 
If the Department of Administrative Services is not the sole purchaser of government real property, to what extent does that Department act as an overseer in respect of purchases of real property by other Departments. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him and his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department and any such agency in engaging private employment agencies m the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a person who has been resident in Australia for over 10 years and who has continued to pay Australian income tax after leaving Australia is required to return and remain here for a period of 12 months in order to be eligible to receive an age pension overseas even though all other criteria for eligibility for such pension have been satisfied. 
2 ) If so, what are the reasons underlying this policy. 
Does strict implementation of this rule often create hardship. 
Is the Minister prepared to investigate the application of this policy, and, in particular, consider relaxing the present policy by having regard to the period of residence in Australia prior to an applicant for an age pension becoming a resident elsewhere. 
Do certain circumstances exist under which a pension may be granted to a person who has been an Australian resident but is now resident elsewhere. 
If so, (a) what are the circumstances, (b) what rules govern the level of pension which may then be payable, (c) is the faa that the applicant for a pension has been paying Australian income tax while overseas taken into account in deciding whether to grant a pension to a person residing overseas, (d) is a distinction made between Australian citizens and residents and (e) if so, what distinction is made. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that social security benefits are not adjusted in accordance with movements in the consumer price index whereas pensions are so adjusted. 
If so, what is the reason for this policy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1) How many persons are employed by the Department of Administrative Services or by agencies responsible to the Minister or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to that Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does the Department of Administrative Services or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by the Department of Administrative Services or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-757 
To what extent does the Department of Administrative Services or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Department of Administrative Services conducting a review of Government purchasing procedures. 
Is Commonwealth departmental purchasing being centralised in the Department of Administrative Services. 
i  If so, on what basis, if any, does the Department of Administrative Services allow other departments to do their own purchasing and to what extent does that Department act as an overseer in respect of that purchasing. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) It is a fact that the Treasury has refused to allow the publication of those volumes of the green paper on Policies for Development of Manufacturing Industry which contain specific information. 
) If not, has the Treasury given any directive in the matter of such publication. 
Does he agree that the availability of such data is essential for the preparation of high quality submissions to aid the Government in the preparation of a white paper on manufacturing industry. 
asked the Acting Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
I ) How many persons are employed by the Department of Environment. Housing and Community Development or by agencies responsible to the Minister or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to that Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by the Department of Environment. Housing and Community Development or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
4 ) I'o what extent does the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department of such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for the. Northern Territory, upon notice: 
How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are employed by the Commonwealth Employment Service and what is the total salary cost involved. 
To what extent does his Department have liaison with other departments or Government agencies in respect of staff recruitment and, in particular, what role does the Commonwealth Employment Service play in assisting Government departments and agencies to recruit staff. 
What sum did the Commonwealth Employment Service spend on advertising job vacancies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any agency responsible to him or his Department engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
How many persons are employed by his Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by bis Deparment or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are employed by the Department of Industry and Commerce or by agencies responsible to the Minister or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to that Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does the Department of Industry and Commerce or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by the Department of Industry and Commerce or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1 974-75. 
To what extent does the Department of Industry and Commerce or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons are employed by his department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
asked the Mininster for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the 2 major airlines cancelled their midday flights from Melbourne to Canberra on Tuesday, 18 May 1976. 
Were many persons who travelled to Canberra for the 2.15 p.m. sittings of the House of Representatives inconvenienced by being obliged to leave Melbourne at approximately 8.30 a.m. to keep relatively short appointments with Members of Parliament in mid-afternoon. 
Is a service of early morning and late afternoon flights from Australia's second largest state capital to the national capital adequate during the sittings of Parliament 
If not, is he able and willing to require the 2 airlines to rationalise cancellations to that one of them has a midday flight from Melbourne to Canberra when Parliament is sitting. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Telecom Australia does not have the technical capacity to distinguish between STD calls and local calls. 
Is it also a fact that Telecom Australia does not have the technical capacity for supplying to subscribers a breakdown of metered calls. 
If Telecom Australia does have the technical capacity to make each of these breakdowns is it a fact that it does not supply subscribers with information of this nature when rendering an account or when answering queries about the amount payable. 
If it does not have the technical capacity to do so, will he request Telecom Australia to develop that capacity and supply the appropriate breakdowns of calls with each account. 
Does he acknowledge that there is an increasing number of complaints from subscribers regarding the amount of the charge in their telephone accounts and the inability of Telecom Australia to explain how the account is computed. 
I have great pleasure in supporting the Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). As the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his Budget Speech, the Budget strategy has 5 basic principles. These may be stated as being: making the reduction in the rate of inflation the essential aim of government policy for the time being; restraining government spending in order to allow the private sector to expand and create jobs in the medium term; restricting government taxation revenue in order to encourage further wage restraint and improve both business profitability and confidence; reducing the size of the deficit in order to moderate increases in the money supply; and continuing to implement selective social programs based on recommendations of the Henderson report on poverty and on a philosophy of assisting the most disadvantaged and assisting others to help themselves more effectively. The old saying that it is always easier to criticise than to construct is never more true than in relation to economic policy. Even if one discounts some criticism as being ideologically based or mere political debating, there will be many nuances of opinion as a result of genuinely different hypothesis and arguably valid assumptions. But it must be said about this Budget that the strategy has been very widely accepted as being most sound in the troubled economic times in which we live. Such criticism as there has been has generally been of a minor nature in relation to the overall strategy. Some commentators have had a few bob each way and others have revealed contradictions in their own analysis. On the whole, however, this Budget probably has received far greater acceptance and much less savage criticism than any other Budget that most of us could remember. It is founded on a strategy approved by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and which has been applied with beneficial results in comparable industrial economies. 
When this Government came to office, the economy was really sick, far more sick than most people realised. From the time this Government came to office it avoided the temptation artificially to stimulate the economy in the short term as this would bring aggravated difficulties in the longer term. Instead, it set out energetically on the task of ensuring a sound recovery in the medium term. 
This Budget is a consistant part of that strategy. It has a medium term orientation. It is a recovery Budget. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitiam)  says that this is a business Budget, not a people's Budget. After 3 disastrous years he still does not recognise that the people's welfare rests upon the welfare of businessespecially when 75 per cent of employment is created by the private sector. Statements made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  when he was Treasurer and presented last year's Budget showed that he understood then the need to help business in order to help people, but his Leader still does not understand. Instead, he advocates still more government spending- no doubt to the chagrin of his shadow Treasurer, the honourable member of Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who has been careful to talk only of selective public spending. 
While this Budget aims to stimulate business, it has not provided any bonanza to industry at the expense of private citizens. If the Leader of the Opposition believes otherwise, he has misunderstood the medium term nature of this Budget. If he has correctly understood, then his words of criticism represent cheap and shabby political word play. The fact is that cash flow benefits for business are at least a year away- in many cases longer than that. Moreover, many of the smaller firms and companies which took such a battering from the Whitlam Government will go out of business before the impact of this so-called business budget has produced the economic recovery to save them. It was not possible to devise - 
It agrees. 
-Regardless of the views of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  or the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures, it is my considered opinion that it was not possible to devise a Budget strategy to save many small firms from the damage done to them in the last 3 years without jeopardising them and others in the medium term. I hope that in some of the labour intensive manufacturing industries there will be assistance in the short term by way of import quotas being granted to them as manufacturers to help balance their books until the Government's White Paper on manufacturing industry is announced and implemented. If we are to a old embarrassment with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, it may be necessary to transfer some existing quotas from importers and retailers to manufacturers so that they may remain in business in some product lines by assisting their business with income from imports. If that action is not taken, many small businesses will collapse and unemployment will rise still further. The retailers who may lose their existing quotas would not have been major importers of those particular commodities in the past and would be most unwise to try to cling to quotas which would put local manufacturers out of business and make the retailers themselves totally dependent upon imports with all the shipping and other problems which that involves. To compound that situation, many of those imports will come from Australian owned companies which have gone off-shore to manufacture with a cheaper work force. It is quite legitimate to decide for economic, foreign policy and trade reasons that that is a desirable trend, but to date, no such decision has been taken and the situation has been allowed to drift. 
I have urged the idea of a transfer of quotas upon the responsible Ministers and hope it will soon be adopted. In saying that, I wish to stress that I am referring only to policies which may be taken in the short term to supplement the Budget strategy. In the long term we must eliminate the crisis orientation associated with our undue emphasis upon the annual Budget. The White Paper on manufacturing will, hopefully, achieve that. As that matter falls outside this Budget debate, I will reserve my comments for a tariff debate or some other appropriate opportunity. 
The method of adjusting trading stock valuations does not apply to 197S-76 incomes and therefore will not grant taxation relief for companies in their tax payments for 1976-77. This provision will be of medium term benefit to manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers and it has been estimated that in some cases it will effectively reduce company tax from the present rate of 42.S per cent to a little over 30 per cent. It is arguable whether a reduction in the rate of company tax in this Budget would assist many companies in financial difficulties. I believe that the general good is better served by the introduction of the recommendations of the Mathews Committee of inquiry into inflation and taxationproposals which correspond with the indexation of personal income tax and which bear the imprimatur of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. One commentator has suggested that companies able to avail themselves of this concession will now have less reason to want inflation reduced. Apart from the fact that they have other reasons for wanting to reduce inflation, the fact that such companies have to wait until the next financial year to benefit from the concession will be incentive enough to work with the Government to help reduce inflation meanwhile. The problems of manufacturing, in particular, go far beyond accounting methods. While on the subject of the trading stock valuation adjustment, one hopes that the various accounting bodies will soon provide clear guidelines for the presentation of company accounts. 
The mining industry, which also took a terrible beating from the Labor Government, also receives benefits of a medium term nature. These concessions are justified in that they will assist the growth of our economy for the benefit of all 
Australians. At the same time, they are handsome incentives which should advance  mining  investment. Likewise, the concessions for petroleum exploration are justifiably generous and of medium term benefit. The mining concessions are substantially consistent with the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission. The justification for such measures lies in the fact that the effect will be a greatly increased cash flow for companies undertaking the development of our natural resourcesprojects for which vast sums of capital are required. Under Labor, capital costs rose to prohibitive levels. Now it will be possible for the huge North West Shelf project to be advanceda project which, like the Bass Strait oil project, will be of great benefit to Australians and will be a tribute to the initiative of the Broken Hm Pty Co. Ltd which recently bought a 2 1 per cent share. 
Small business will benefit from this Budget both by the stock valuation adjustment after the end of this financial year and the extension of the retention allowance in this financial year. I am bound to say, however, that I would like to see the retention allowance so extended that it disappears altogether. Capital is by far Australia 's scarcest resource and the undistributed profits tax imposed upon private companies amounts to a penalty upon business which costs the nation dearly by inhibiting the assembly of precious capital. The liberalisation contained in this Budget is most welcome but private companies are still obliged to pay 40 per cent of their after-tax profits out as dividends which are then taxed as income to shareholders. 
In keeping with its determination to help the disadvantaged, the Government has granted increased aid to handicapped children and pensioners. Pensioners will indeed, receive protection from inflation by full indexation of their pension entitlements. It has also removed the property means test for pensioners and increased pensions by $4 per week for married couples and $2.25 per week for single pensioners. Similarly approximately 300 000 low-income families with 800 000 children Will benefit by the excellent family allowance scheme. The easing of estate duty on an estate passing to the spouse is also to be welcomed. Given the gravity of our economic conditions, these provisions show that the Government is concerned very much with people. When the economy is restored to health we may expect further enlightened, selective social programs aimed at helping people in a practical and dignified manner. Meanwhile, this Budget should still be seen as a people's Budget for it incorporates the tax indexation proposals. This means that people's taxes will not rise this year as they would otherwise have done under the graduated tax scales. People will, therefore, have more of their own money to do with as they please. To achieve that the Government has forgone $ 1 ,000m of estimated tax revenue. 
That is a most enlightened decision and one which the Labor Party would not have made because it would not have forgone that amount of money. It believed it knew best how people wanted to spend their money, thanks to this Government, centralism and paternalism are finished. Equally enlightened is the social reform by way of the family allowance scheme. While it may not stimulate much consumer demand of itself, it is a most desirable social measure. 
It is unfortunate that the Government could not relieve some of the special burdens of the middle income earner. As the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  has ably observed, the middle income group has been forced to bear the brunt of the 3 years of hard labour and one can only hope that next year's Budget can give them some relief- not merely because they bear a greater relative burden now than do other income groups but also because they include some of the most creative and innovative people in our society. For such people, this relatively onerous burden is a penalty to initiative. Whether one respects it or not, it is a fact that we are a materialistic society and, consequently, penalties of a material kind cost the nation effort and initiative. 
When inflation has been reduced, I hope that this Government will grant new incentives to Australians to help provide for their own futures- especially by way of the various forms of life assurance. Inflation has so eroded savings that the surrender rate of life policies has reached worrying proportions and, if continued, this would have a serious impact upon capital investment in Australia as so much of our investment comes from life companies and superannuation funds. After harsh tax measures in each of the 3 Labor Budgets and being omitted from the indexation schemes announced by this Government, life assurance companies are worried. I can understand nothing being contained in this Budget as we do not want to encourage more saving at present. Nonetheless, we need to consider granting more incentive next year for people to provide for their own futures. 
Despite some sensible questioning of the assumptions implicit in this Budget, especially in relation to a boost in business confidence and a slight reduction in real wages, no one can deny to the present Government the achievement of reducing government spending so massively, thereby removing a huge inflationary pressure. When the reduction in the deficit is accompanied by the loss of revenue stemming from the introduction of complete personal and partial corporate tax indexation and the absence of increases in indirect tax, the achievement is quite remarkable. Its aim is for a sound, sure recovery- in keeping with responsible economic management. One commentator described that strategy as 'dull'. That is hardly a fair comment. In the circumstances the policies have been dramatic. In any event, I have no doubt that if that commentator meant his remark to be critical, his criticism would not be shared by the majority of the electorate. The Leader of the Opposition is unrepentant and he will find the electorate equally unforgiving. 
Any budget will be framed upon assumptions, especially in these unchartered economic oceans. Of the assumptions in this Budget, the most important is that inflationary expectations are the major factor discouraging consumer spending and corporate investment. This assumption seems to me to be at least as valid as any other I have heard advanced and, if the assumption proves to be correct, the Budget will go a long way towards reviving the economy for the benefit of all. 
What is certain is that the Government had to grasp the nettle and settle its strategy on some assumptions. This it has done with courage and Australians of goodwill should gladly do all in their power to support the strategy. This will require patience and some short-term self-denial. Media attention suggests that this is being asked in particular of wage earners. I shall say more about that in another economic debate as time does not permit me to do so now. All entities in the community, all individuals in the communitynot merely those who are categorised as wage earners- are asked to show patience. All entities in the community can say with no less justification that can wage earners, that they should have received more immediate assistance. In their own interests, however, and in the interests of other people in the community. They must now act in a manner consistent with the Budget strategy. Thus, despite the fact that demand is still about 10 per cent below capacity, industry must utilise the investment allowance more than it has done and restock so that this may assist the economy to advance surely by the end of the current financial year. 
Because of the complex nature of the economy and the difficulty of understanding its working, the onus is more on corporations to invest than it is on consumers to spend. It is obviously desirable that the two should be concurrent but the corporations must show the way and the consumers will surely follow soon afterwards. 
Industrialists should be stung by the ambiguous reference of the Treasurer to their needing to emerge from their 'shell-holes and start buying plant, equipment and new buildings, restocking and taking on new workers'. Businessmen certainly could be expected to retreat to shell-holes after the bombardment they received during 3 years of Labor government. But the clear implication in the Treasurer's words is one of scorn if the industrialists of Australia do not soon start investing and thereby lead the recovery. 
The Government has done its pan. Apart from its massive reductions in government spending, the investment allowance and this Budget have given clear encouragement to the private sector. The money supply may expand by a little more than the estimated 10 per cent to 12 per cent but, in any event, the deficit will prove to be small enough to enable companies to borrow without being in competition with the public borrowing requirements and so forcing up interest rates. The challenge, therefore, is now before industry. The inventory cycle, as I heard the honourable member for Oxley say today, is generally thought to be very close to its bottom. For this reason alone immediate stimulation of industry was probably unnecessary. Inventory rebuilding is, therefore, beginning and it should be possible for many companies to begin to plan new investment programs and utilise the generous 40 per cent investment allowance. Company profits have increased in many areas despite indifferent demand and, although some of the worst company reports are yet to come, many companies should be able to look forward to productivity improvement at a gradually accelerating rate. Hopefully this will contribute to profitability to a sufficient extent to enable price increases to be minimal. In that fashion, wage increases also may be contained. 
Twenty minutes is insufficient time in which to appraise a Budget of this magnitude and complexity, but I hope that in other debates on the economy we may have an opportunity to expand and deal with other important aspects of this very important Budget strategy. Meanwhile, I congratulate the Treasurer upon his achievement and strongly support this Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Martin)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) When addressing the 6th National Conference of the Australian Institute of Directors on 1 April 1976, did the Minister say that she anticipated receiving an interim report from the Income Security Review Group during May 1976. 
If so, has the Minister received that interim report; if so, will its recommendations be made public 
When does the Minister expect to receive a final report, and when will those recommendations be made public 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did the Minister state in answer to question No. 613 that the means test on fringe benefits for pensioners had not been reviewed since 1969 but that it would be reviewed at the appropriate time. 
Was this subject one which was being considered by the Income Security Review Group, and was it the subject of a recommendation in the interim report of that group. 
Is the Minister now in a position to say what time the Government believes to be appropriate to review the means test on fringe benefits for pensioners. 
-The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  said that he would not spend very much time rebutting the comments made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  but he spent about 5 minutes asserting that he was not a centralist. He is a humanitarian, and he has proved to us that he is a centralist by the constant notion that somehow or other it is Federal Government money we are talking about and that the States are going to be the beneficiaries of it. In buoyant times, all 7 governments can share the good times, and in hard times such as we are now having all 7 governments have to make sacrifices and practise- self denial, and that is what we are talking about. In his second reading speech the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  made it clear that this Bill authorises the payment of capital grants to the States in 1976-77 totalling $452m. That is the amount which was agreed upon at the June Premiers Conference, so it does not really behove the Opposition in this Parliament to criticise the amount agreed upon, by the 7 governments. These grants represent a continuation of arrangements which were initiated by the Liberal-Country Party Government in June 1970. They provide that portion of State governments' Loan Council programs should take the form of interest-free non-repayable grants in lieu of what would otherwise be borrowings by the States. The effect of these grants is to relieve the States of debt charges which they would otherwise have to pay, and accordingly the grants have a substantial beneficial effect on the financial position of the States. Of course, in adverse economic times the States feel that, relative to other occasions, they are not as well off as they might be. But the grants were introduced to help the States finance works such as schools, police buildings and the like from which debt charges normally are not recoverable. The States are entirely free to apply these grants as they choose, and no terms and conditions are attached to them in this Bill. 
After reciting the history of the grants, the Treasurer observed in his second reading speech that over recent years payments to the States had outstripped the Commonwealth outlays. He also stressed that, at the request of the States, this Bill reverses the Labor Government's emphasis on section 96 specific purpose grants. The emphasis of this Bill is on general purpose untied grants. This will enable the States to do their own housekeeping and to assess their own priorities. Under the federalism policies of this Government, the State governments are to be accountable to their own constituents for the money which they cause to be raised and which they spend. In these difficult economic circumstances, the States are asked to assess their own priorities and do their own housekeeping. To their great credit, the States have responded to that challenge. Reference has been made to the Premier of South Australia, and certainly he has responded most commendably. In exercising their responsibilities, the States are part of the Commonwealth of Australia and therefore they must assist in resolving our economic problems. They all have shown a greater willingness to do so and a realism which could well be copied, with results, by the Opposition. 
This Bill raises matters which are basic to the functioning of the economy. The States all accept that the essential assumptions of this Budget's strategy are more valid than assumptions and assertions to the contrary. I discussed that strategy last night, and I think it is relevant to this Bill to consider the prospects of recovery in the economy, because our economy has been very sick and it is important to consider the prognosis. The Treasurer indicated in his Budget Speech that there were some signs of recovery. He was cautious, but he said that there were some signs. He pointed to growing private consumption spending in some areas, increased capital spending on plant and equipment, an end to build-up of business stocks, and a strengthening of export growth. Without exaggerating the significance of these signs, I suggest that they are a source of hope and, coupled with this Budget- this Bill's part of that strategy- should help considerably to restore business confidence. A further encouraging sign is the increased demand for packaging paper, which is always a sign of anticipated orders for a wide range of industries. 
I must stress that I am talking only of a start to re-investment. Companies have been paying dividends out of capital for too long to become profitable in a short time. Many companies have become adjusted to working with a lower inventory/sales ratio. This is a very important fact which the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  pointed out yesterday- a fact from which he and his former Government can take no comfort. Companies certainly are not optimistic about orders, and therefore the restocking process will be slow; but it has started. Confidence also should receive a boost from the knowledge that interest rates will not rise and should soon fall. It should be possible to fund the deficit from borrowings from non-bank sources, with the result that interest rates are likely to fall during this financial year. That, of course, will be of benefit to the States as well as to the rest of us. Indeed, long term interest rates already are declining after having virtually doubled during the 3 years of Labor Government. 
Even if average weekly earnings rise by a little more than the 12 per cent budgeted for, the Budget estimate of a 20 per cent rise in profits in current price terms should be realisable and should be incentive enough for a beginning to investment programs. In the words of one of Melbourne's most responsible and respected firms of stockbrokers: 
Time may show that the most important contribution of this Budget is the creation of an environment which is very much more favourable to reasonable reward for reasonable effort in the private sector- an environment which was certainly lost in the three years up to December 1 975. 
What the Treasurer has achieved and what the Premiers in conjunction with this Government have achieved by the June Premiers Conference is similar to what has happened in the United States. By similar policies the Treasurer has reduced the supply of money without inducing a credit squeeze or a strong upward movement of interest rates. In short, the climate for business confidence and investment now exists and it is up to industry to take advantage of it. 
The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  and the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Moore)  have both referred to the excellent work done by the Reserve Bank of Australia during the Labor Government's maladministration They also have observed that the  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hawke,  is a member of the Reserve Bank Board and must be taken, therefore, to have endorsed the Bank's remarks. It is noteworthy that the Bank supports the Treasurer totally in his drive to reduce the deficit so sharply. Moreover, the Bank seems even more adamant than the Treasurer that the money supply should grow at a rate which is less than the rate of increase in prices and wages. It makes it clear that the exchange rate will be threatened unless the growth in money wages is reduced. Significantly, it also acknowledges an incipient recovery in the economy. Nonetheless, forward orders and seasonally adjusted figures for industrial production for the period May 1975 to July 1976 testify to the deep-seated nature of our economic ills- the ills which this Government inherited. 
Apart from the groups which believe that they should have received government aid prior to others, the principal criticisms of the Budget have rested on the continued unemployment levels and on the apparent attack on real wages. In respect of employment levels, there is a general recognition that unemployment will not fall substantially until inflation is reduced. Nonetheless, there is a widespread view that a higher deficit could have been tolerated in order to stimulate jobs in the building and construction area, especially in New South Wales where unemployment is highest. That, of course, is relevant to this Bill and may be relevant to future discussions between the Premier of New South Wales and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
The Treasury believes that any higher deficit would put upward pressure upon interest rates; but, if the deficit were increased by up to $500,000,000 in order to fund selected works programs, such as schools, hospitals and roads which are needed and which will employ people, I believe that the business community would be no less likely to invest and the consumer, being less afraid of unemployment, would be even more likely to spend. That is a matter of judgment, and that comment of mine, which is a view shared by many people on both sides of this chamber, is not a criticism of the Budget. In fact, in terms of the overall strategy of the Budget, it is a mere quibble; but, of course, in human terms it is a very serious matter for those persons who are concerned. It affects not merely tradesmen or labourers in the building and construction area but also architects and engineers who not only are rapidly becoming unemployed but also are leaving Australia, thus depriving us of creative energies, skills and potential export earnings. 
In contrast to some honourable members opposite, the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Wran,  is to be commended for his responsible reply to this Budget. Like the other State Premiers, he is determined to effect more efficiencies in the State administration and to cut services further, if necessary, rather than aggravate inflation by increasing State charges and taxes. It would not be surprising, however, if some special relief had to be given to New South Wales as time goes on and as further Premiers Conferences are held. 
Unemployment continues to be a worry for all Australians. We recall that, when he was Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Senator James  McClelland, a man who acted realistically and responsibly, predicted that the outcome of Labor's policies would be 400 000 persons unemployed. I mention that merely to rebut the squalid accusations from some honourable members opposite who say that the present Government is seeking to create unemployment. On the contrary, the Fraser Government has been holding the employment situation steady and has prevented  Senator McClelland  's prophecy from being realised. All but 16 000 of the 230 000 school leavers of last year had been employed by the end of June this year. Contrary to the cheap politics being made by the Opposition, no one in this Government takes any joy out of the continuing high unemployment, especially the huge problem of youth unemployment. I hope to say more about youth training programs when debating the estimates of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations. 
The unemployment figures, it must be seen, are slightly better than they were at this time last year, if one takes into account the number of persons on Regional Employment Development schemes last year. Budget projections indicate that approximately the same number of persons will be unemployed at this time next year. By then, however, the economic recovery should be evident beyond any question and the employment situation should improve thereafter. As employment prospects improve, however, more people- especially married women- will register for employment, and to some extent this will distort the unemployment figures. We do at least have the hopeful sign of an increase in overtime. In fact, in the year ended June 1976 there was a 60 per cent increase in overtime. That adds to the real disposable income of those employed, but unemployment will not be reduced substantially until inflation is reduced and industry is working at near full capacity once more. 
Much has been said recently about the Budget strategy being aimed at a reduction in real wages. In fact, the strategy aims at reducing the growth of money wages relative to prices. In 1973-74 wage increases so exceeded price increases that many of our current difficulties began then. Of course, they were aggravated by exchange rate adjustments, the 25 per cent tariff cuts, and the profligate public spending of which we have heard so much in this chamber.  Mr Hawke  recognises that the wages explosion of 1973-74 caused serious problems. He acknowledged that recently on the television program  Monday Conference.  He has urged the trade union movement to be content with the maintenance of real wages. Presumably he sees the necessary increase in profits being made through productivity gains. Desirable though it is that profits increase via increased productivity, it is inconceivable that in the present economic circumstances they can do so without some price increases. Consequently it is a delicate matter of judgment whether real wages can be maintained and prices increased- albeit to a minimumwithout seriously threatening the exchange rate. Despite the arguments of those who say that our currency is overvalued, there is no doubt that it has devalued against key currencies by floating downwards and that further devaluation would be inflationary. I do not believe it to be in the national interest for us to devalue. 
At the same time, I do believe that it is desirable for real wages to be maintained as much as possible. Critics of the Budget have said that a reduction in real wages is called for by the Budget. They have asserted that wage earners, therefore, would be more inclined to save than to spend. That is, however, an unsubstantiated, although very plausible, assertion. In response it can be asserted incontrovertibly that when real wages grew at phenomenal rates in 1973-74, savings grew correspondingly. None of us has worked out why savings rise to record levels year after year, nor have we discovered how to unlock those savings and how to stop people squirrelling. In those circumstances it seems to me that we are better to try to encourage an investment led recovery, ask the business sector to accept the responsibility and hope consumer spending will follow soon afterwards. Certainly if investment levels return to a level of confidence as a result of strategies adopted by the Government, consumer spending will follow. Investment in new plant and equipment is the key to our recovery. Such investment will increase both productivity and employment opportunities. Industry must now avail itself of the investment allowance and wage earners must be patient. 
If those in employment can minimise their wage demands, those unemployed will have a greater chance of gaining a job. In economic terms, each wage increase granted at a time of high inflation begins to erode itself by causing necessary price increases. Wage earners are then no better off and the unemployed are even worse off. Real wages can only really increase when we return to greater productivity and improvement. That brings us back to the need for investment. Whenever a Budget forecasts maximum wage increases, the forecasts have a habit of becoming minima, thus adding to the inflation in grave economic times like these. It is therefore responsible for the Treasury not to encourage average weekly earnings to rise beyond 1 2 per cent in this financial year. I would be surprised, however, if it does not expect a rise slightly beyond this figure. This may explain its caution regarding growth in gross domestic product. I share Treasury's caution in this regard because I think it is asking too much of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to do better than to appear to be maintaining the real value of existing wage levels. 
It is hard to expect rank and file employees to understand the economic argument to which I referred earlier and to see that they may not be able to gain real wage increases just because they get a money amount of wage increases. Economic instability did follow the dramatic increases in wages compared with profits in 1973-74, but the restoration of that stability will be slower than the creation of the instability, precisely because the process cannot easily be reversed. In truth, I cannot believe that the Treasury expects real wages to be reduced; hence its cautious and responsible growth and recovery predictions. A common interpretation of Treasury strategy is that it argues that unemployment helps restrain inflationary wage costs. General observations such as that are fraught with danger. 
For years many economic commentators have relied on the famous Phillips curve to postulate that if there was a pool of unemployed, wagecost inflation would be reduced. It is generally accepted now that that proposition is no longer true. Apart from the political odium of such cynicism and the cost to revenue of $500m in unemployment benefits, no government would be seeking to develop a pool of unemployed to reduce wage demands. The fact is that inflation has not struck uniformly. It has not hit in any uniform fashion each sector of industry. There are still pockets of over-full employment, especially in the skilled trades, and there are many categories of unemployment which are well above the average. Many of those who are unemployed have not been members of active unions and so union leaders in other employment categories do not always accept the adage which was enunciated by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  that one man's pay rise is another man's job. The fact remains that even in areas where - 
It is a wise general statement but in fact it is ignored by many. The fact remains that even in areas where employers cannot resist over-award claims- because of the borderline nature of the operation, under capacity and a shortage of skilled workforce- the impact of the general level of wages is such that in some other area of employment someone else is retrenched or is not replaced on leaving his employment. It is a difficult matter of union education, and in the case of some of the more militant union leaders it is a point which only the rank and file can really impress upon them. The pressure for the payment of the Medibank levy by some militant unions upon employers with limited capacity to resist at present provides an illustration of how the general level of wages may rise beyond the guidelines of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and to the detriment of the employment situation. 
It is commonly accepted that the September quarter increase in the consumer price index will be comparable to the 2.5 per cent movement in June, and that the December quarter will provide the Budget and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission with a real test. Both will have to meet that situation then and it would not be responsible for me to speculate on that now. Suffice it to say that between now and any wage case in the new year which will seek to apply the December quarter movement, the Budget will have had a chance to work and critics of the Budget will be then able to be judged on their criticism. The Budget strategy will then have restored business and consumer confidence, I believe, although again we should be careful not to treat those terms as though they have any more uniform application than the principles flowing from the old Phillips curve. In fact, business confidence and consumer confidence apply as disuniformly as the Phillips curve does now. Thus, those consumers with secure employment prospects will start to spend money when they detect more overall confidence, despite the fact that in certain job categories unemployment may remain high. Business will make correspondingly disuniform investment decisions until the recovery in certain sectors of industry stimulates recovery elsewhere. 
Nonetheless, no one should be under any delusions. There will not be a complete economic recovery for 18 months to 2 years. That is the magnitude of the ills which this Government has inherited. During that period the strategy adopted consistently by this Government will need modification as community responses demand. The general strategy must be administered with flexibility. Thus, for example, while the relationship between inflation and unemployment is undeniable, it must not be viewed too strictly. When the supplementary statements to the Budget assert that jobs are expected to expand at a rate slower than the rate expected for the expansion of the workforce, there is a clear need for flexibility to assist school leavers and categories of unemployed to find jobs, even if the means of creating jobs slows down still further to a rate below the rate of economic recovery. 
My question is to the Prime Minister. Does the Victorian State Budget announced last night assist this Government in its overall econonic strategy? 
asked the Treasurer, upon  notice: 
How many persons are employed by bis Department or by agencies responsible to him or his Department in a staff recruiting capacity and what amounts are chargeable to his Department or such agencies in respect of their annual salaries. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage private employment agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
What sum was spent by his Department or any such agency in engaging private employment agencies in the financial year 1974-75. 
To what extent does his Department or any such agency engage or otherwise obtain assistance from the Commonwealth Employment Service in the recruitment of staff and what sum has been paid to the Commonwealth Employment Service in respect of such assistance. 
-Has the Minister for Transport seen Press reports of statements attributed to State members of Parliament asserting that the additional $7. 5m in funds for roads in Victoria this year is a myth? Are these reports correct? If not, can the Minister indicate what additional moneys were made available to Victoria in this financial year? 
I am opposed to the amendment and in support of the estimates. I think it is appropriate at the Constitutional Convention for persons to give their views on the matter raised by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I intend to confine my remarks to matters related to the estimates, although not particularly to the details of the estimates as they are in this Budget. Probably, like all estimates of expenditure they could be questioned in terms of a cost-benefit analysis. I wish to deal with the estimates of expenditure on the basis of what they do not contain rather than what they do contain. As they stand, they represent approximately $ 1 per head of population in Australia. No doubt that is an adequate basis for a continuation of the operation of this Parliament in this building, but they are quite inadequate for the requirements of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia in the last quarter of the 20th century. 
Parliament House itself is quite inadequate for the needs of the institution of parliament. When this building was built for the Parliament in 1927, the number of members was far fewer, the population was far less, and the staff of the House itself and of the Ministers was much smaller in number. We are now in impossibly cramped conditions. Members complain about this in these estimates debates year after year. Visitors to Kings Hall or to the exterior of the building find it a most attractive building, but those of us who have to work here, with the poor heating and the stale air that circulates, find it extremely intolerable to work effectively in it. As the population grows and as the requirements of parliamentarians grow, clearly more staff will be needed and we will have an even more cramped situation. 
A new parliament house has been talked of for an eternity, so it seems. Action is needed now. Any action which is planned now will not be a cost to revenue during the current economic recession. If we are not to get another building for 1 5 years, then at least we should have a building at the rear of this building. Any further procrastination will make our task more difficult when it comes to performing our work as members of Parliament. This building should be made more functional. A new building at the back could contain the staff of the House and the staff of Ministers, except those members of staff who have to be close to the chambers. It would never be wasted, because Canberra will always need to have buildings of that sort and office space of that sort. Even if a new parliament house were built later and the present building were converted to a conference centre, the building would not be wasted. More procrastination will only create more impediments to members of Parliament doing their work. 
Of course, members of Parliament are scoffed at by some people who do not think we are trying to do a job at all. Occasionally one reads editorials and columns in newspapers along those lines. There was a quite notorious column in the  Australian  not long ago- the day after the presentation of the Budget, as I recall. But, worse than that, there are so-called political scientists who seem to be reconciled to the fact that the country is being run by non-elected people, people who have the best will in the world but who nevertheless are in the senior ranks of the Public Service. The so-called political scientists ought to be concerned at this trend; so should the historians be concerned at this trend. Historians who understand the evolution of the supremacy of the Parliament over taxation, expenditure and administration generally should be concerned at the handicaps placed in the way of the elected members in examining the administration of this country. Members need to be supported by adequate staff when it comes to their assisting Ministers in querying the advice they receive from public servants- not because that advice is deliberately misleading, but because the advice is human and is not subject to any accountability other than to the Parliament. 
In this regard I must praise the Library staff of the Parliament, the staff of the  Clerk  and, above all,  Mr Gordon  Pike and his staff for their transport service. All of these things make it easier for members of the Parliament to do their job. I think it is time that praise was given for the work which they all do. Even though the Parliamentary Library does a wonderful job in assisting members with research, each member ought to have a staff member based in Parliament House or in an annexe to Parliament House to assist him on the spot to make better use of the research facilities which are available in the Library. That is not to say that we do not need 2 members of staff in our own electorates, because clearly we do. The local work is increasing rapidly, as is revealed by the Royal Commission into Australian Government Administration in its report, where a section is devoted to the growth of that kind of work. A possible avenue of increase in work of that sort is foreshadowed in the report of the Royal Commission. 
The United States Congress has coped with this. It has provided appropriate facilities. But the House of Commons still lags a long way behind. Indeed, the privileges won by the House of Commons were often won in spite of itself. I think that in Australia we are facing the same problem. The House of Commons now is running the risk of squandering many of the privileges it has won, because of the inability of members of Parliament there to scrutinise adequately the advice of the administration in Whitehall, members of Parliament in Britain certainly have to grapple more with that situation, and so do we in Australia. The cheese-paring attitude towards the requirements of parliamentarians was vividly illustrated yesterday in remarks made by  Mr Speaker  in the House. I think we all share the concern which he felt regarding the institution. It is in the same spirit that I make these remarks. 
The business of government is the biggest business in Australia. The methods of this business have changed, as have the methods of all other businesses; but the procedures of the Parliament and other people's perception of the roles of members of parliament has not changed as rapidly and has not kept up to date. When it comes to debating this problem, we all should be grateful for the work of the so-called Committee on Committees which presented a report in May this year and which did some excellent work in mapping out a program for future activity to cure the kind of problem to which I am referring. If time permits, I will come back to some of the points that Committee raised. 
I wish to refer to the establishment of the Expenditure Committee, which recognises some of the problems to which I have referred. One implication in the establishment of the Expenditure Committee recognises that the detail of expenditure is a task which should not involve party issues. Policy is excluded from the work of the Expenditure Committee. Consequently we all can sit on that Committee as members of the Parliament. It has been very noticeable in the functioning of that Committee so far that party issues have never intruded. This is a very important step in the right direction. It is important that this Parliament has delegated to the Expenditure Committee the right to examine expert witnesses, to scrutinise documents and to report back to the House, where its report can be debated. It is very important that that not be seen to replace the estimates debates on the Budget. Clearly there is still a very important role for private members in expressing important views which otherwise they cannot express easily in other debates. But it is important to realise that it was necessary to delegate that role to a committee. Again, the appointment of the Expenditure Committee is implicit recognition of the fact that the execution of policies is the job of public servants and that therefore they should be answerable for their administrative decisions. Again, that was a point made by the Royal Commission into Australian Government Administration. 
The recognition of this fact places the concept of ministerial responsibility in a more realistic perspective. There is a particular responsibility for policy decisions and for those administrative decisions expressly authorised by the Minister, but other administrative decisions lie with the public servants who make them. Additionally, this Parliament will need to improve its scrutiny of administrative acts which do not involve the expenditure of money. We have seen the passage of the Ombudsman Bill and the establishment of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, and the Senate has scrutiny over regulations and other statutory instruments. It is important that the Parliament ensure that it satisfactorily examines statutory instruments, because they are designed to carry out the purposes of the statute. It will have to consider whether they carry out the purposes of the statute in the most equitable way and with the minimum inconvenience to citizens compatible with the purposes of the statute. 
-Has the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs noted the predicament of Bishop Lamont in Rhodesia? Is the Australian Government in a position to express a view on the circumstances leading to his predicament, especially in view of  Dr Kissinger's  current initiatives regarding Rhodesia? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the suggestion for foreign aid made by the organisation known as 'For Those Who Have Less'. 
) If so, are these suggestions practicable; if not, why not. 
If the suggestions are practicable, when will they be acted upon by the Government. 
-In speaking to the estimates of the Department of Industry and Commerce I wish to say at the outset that I believe that Australia needs a vital, strong, viable manufacturing industry. The problem that arises is this: What form will it take and what level of government participation will there be in assisting people to redeploy their capital and retrain their labour? In that regard I am attracted to the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration dealing with the establishment of a new department of industries and the economy. I will not have time to develop that, of course, during the course of a 10-minute speech, but I think that kind of planning department, as one might loosely call it, might help us to overcome the kinds of problems to which the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and, in a brief way, the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  referred. 
I would like to say this in terms of the forthcoming White Paper which has been mentioned: There are too many people in manufacturing industry as we know it who seem to feel that the establishment of such a depanment is going to carry some kind of gold-plated guarantee that they will be able to go on in manufacturing as they now know it. In my speech during the Budget debate I made a couple of suggestions to the Government about the way in which it might assist manufacturing industry to tide itself over its present difficulties and, of course, to be sure that it did not add to the current unemployment problems. In the longer term, however, there is a great deal of work to be done, and there are certainly not likely to be any soft options available to industry in that regard. 
The White Paper certainly will not produce a plan in the sense of it being a government policy to give industries a guarantee of perpetual survival by way of unlimited protection or government assistance such as that of which the honourable member for Wakefield has complained. Despite the reservations about the Green Paper- the Jackson Committee report- I personally expect some concept of key industries to emerge in order to cater for what the honourable member for Wakefield referred to, namely, that the rural and mining industries of this country believe that they are paying a hidden tax when they are helping to provide protection for industries which cannot compete internationally. I think that some concept of a key industry approach will be unavoidable if we are to have employment levels, living standards, technology and our own resources in manufacturing industry available to us. 
I think we owe the Jackson Committee which presented the Green Paper a great debt. That Green Paper identified what it called a long standing and deep-seated malaise. It has focused long overdue public attention upon manufacturing industry and its problems. Some of those problems, of course, stem from the short term palliatives which were administered by past governments which often merely deferred the day of reckoning. Thanks to the policies during the 3 years of Labor Government that day of reckoning will come harder upon us than otherwise it would have done. Other problems, of course, stem from changes in the international and domestic market and also from new demands in technology. All of those problems have been compounded very seriously by the mismanagement which occurred from December 1 972 to December 1975. 
Nevertheless, the Green Paper has raised important questions which have been evaded by industry for years. I am thinking in terms of job redesign, retraining, management training, especially for supervisors and foremen, investment and production policies, in-plant communicationwe have not had anything like the Lord Watkinson report which was brought down in the United Kingdom- absenteeism, job turnover, job satisfaction. These are the sorts of problems to which we must now address our attention. The White Paper hopefully will address itself very strongly to those matters. Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Ltd put a submission to the Government regarding the White Paper. 
It identified 7 areas which require a clear statement of government policy. Those 7 areas are jobs and population, productivity, access to markets, capital investment, mobilisation of funds for investment, how best to reward successful companies and individuals. They are the kinds of matters upon which we must have a clear policy. We have to overcome the acrimonious kind of debate we have in this chamber in which people label themselves as protectionists or free traders and hurl abuse across the chamber or, indeed, on the same side of the chamber. It is therefore important for Australia that government, management and the unions work together to set national goals on those matters. They must in that way overcome the malaise. Of course, it really is misleading to use the word 'industry' only in the sense of management. Industry includes employees and their representatives, the unions. Equally, 'manufacturing' is a misnomer when it encompasses such a diverse series of sectors involved in processing. Equally, it is silly to talk in terms of the metal industry when in fact we have many industries working in different metals and with different systems of work and processes. 
Australian businessmen have long admired the unique relationship which exists between industry and government in Japan. That clearly is what the Green Paper is leading us towards, and that is what we must strive towards. That unique relationship used to be thought of once as being directional but now it is being understood as being consultative. That is precisely what we should strive for. In addition to crystallising the issues facing manufacturing, some of which have been referred to tonight, the Green Paper suggested a mechanism for consultation and for policy formulation. I will not have time to deal with that, but it is important that we set up a mechanism which adequately enables industry and government- I use the word 'industry' in the sense of including unions- to exchange economic intelligence which will be crucial to the healthy development of those parts of manufacturing which can be internationally competitive and export oriented and which will be based on Australian talents, skills and resources. Only by the closest possible communication between government and industry can we achieve the goals spoken of in the Green Paper and which would have widespread community support. This includes, of course, less dependence on foreign capital, increased Australian ownership, improving the quality of working life, anticipating and adjusting to change and reducing protection levels. Clearly manufacturing industry must be viewed in the light of overall economic policy, especially if the exchange rate policy which affects all sectors continues to assume great importance. 
With the appropriate consultative machinery between industry and government both might more effectively monitor market trends and better identify areas of future problems. There has been a general reluctance on the part of both industry and government to have an overall plan for manufacturing. The role of a non-socialist government is to manage the economy and help arm industry with the data needed for each industry sector to transform itself in response to market forces and for new industries to develop and expand. Where changes occur beyond the reasonable anticipation of management and government after close consultation, government should assist industry to adjust by setting up a structural adjustment assistance tribunal on a firmer basis than now exists. Structural adjustment assistance should be provided to management and employees in conjunction with far better manpower planning and retraining programs than we have yet seen from any Australian government. 
The ad hoc decision making of the past has contributed to the deep seated and long standing malaise. At a time of rapid economic growth we must overcome the unsatisfactory and uncertain situation which has existed when the Temporary Assistance Authority and the Industries Assistance Commission have been at odds with each other. A structural adjustment assistance tribunal is, however, needed to protect industry and its employees from sudden changes of government polley or international exigencies which could not be foreseen. In my opinion both the structural adjustment assistance tribunal and the council supervising retraining should be permanent and tripartite. Moreover, the machinery for consultation should be serviced by a secretariat staffed by a balanced mixture of persons drawn from management and unions as well as from appropriate government departments and agencies. If the machinery for consultation is serviced only by public servants, management and unions will be at an extreme disadvantage and will become rubber stamps for the ideas of persons of goodwill for Australia but persons who rarely have experience of how industry really functions. In that regard I hope that the Government will do all that it can to encourage the transfer and secondment of persons from industry to the Public Service and vice versa. We certainly do need more mobility than we have seen. 
If one looks at pages 71 to 74 and 78 to 84 of the Budget Paper No. 1 for 1975-76 and at pages 75 to 78 and 83 to 88 in this year's Budget Paper No. 1 one sees the terrible belting that manufacturing industry has received in the last 3 years. This coupled with the deep seated malaise to which I have referred and traced shows what a terrible mess manufacturing industry is in. I hope that no one in this House would decry the need for short term assistance for manufacturing industry. Equally I hope that nobody would mislead industry into thinking that that short term protection will be perpetuated. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Attorney-General a question regarding human rights. Is the Attorney-General aware of complaints by many concerned citizens alleging that teenagers and persons in their early twenties have been induced to join certain religious sects and have, under the guise of exercising freedom of worship actually had their freedom severely restricted and in some cases have actually suffered serious physical and psychological harm? If so, is the Attorney-General in a position to take action regarding such complaints? 
-The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has indicated something of the magnitude of the range of problems which the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has at the present time. However, I want to concentrate my remarks on some of the future problems which are certainly with us now but are of a more structural kind. Although the Government faces many huge problems, some of which are inherited and some are structural, they will continue unless realistic action is begun now and taken in a concerted fashion over a number of years. None of the problems facing this Government is more difficult than that of restructuring our manufacturing industry which provides over 20 per cent of jobs in the community and causes many others to be created in tertiary industry. Even when we have a new mining boom, and it is generally acknowledged that this Budget will produce that result, neither the mining industry nor those parts of tertiary industry which service the mining industry can be expected to provide a huge number of jobs. The mining industry will provide building and construction jobs and employs more people than is commonly acknowledged. Nevertheless, it is a capital intensive industry and cannot provide jobs on such a scale that we can afford to run down our manufacturing industry and imagine that we will not have a chronic unemployment problem. 
In the debate on the estimates for the Department of Industry and Commerce I outlined my views on the future of the manufacturing industry. Suffice to say for the purpose of this debate that I believe we must have a restructured manufacturing industry in order to solve the unemployment problem of which we are all now too painfully aware and to provide jobs of the kind to which Australians aspire. The most important problem for the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is to establish machinery for retraining, machinery which should be governed by a tripartite council consisting of representatives of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, unions and employers. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is aware of the problem and does not need to be told how urgent and essential is the early establishment of retraining programs. He is very well aware of the need for improved training and retraining. He has demonstrated in discussions with his State counterparts the need for improved apprenticeship training. That has been acknowledged by all 7 governments. Apprenticeship programs must be made more relevant to the aspirations of school leavers and the needs of industry and this matter is, of course, one of top priority to the Government. 
Likewise, the concept of adult apprenticeship and other re-training programs must be launched by the Government after the closest possible consultation with unions and employer organisations. The unions always have always opposed adult apprenticeships for reasons related to job security. Our economy has now reached the stage where adult apprenticeship or re-training is necessary in those areas where we can create more jobs. Apprenticeship and other forms of initial training should not be continued on a large scale in work categories where job opportunities are declining or where it is foreseeable that they will decline. Information on that subject is available from many sources but should be marshalled by industry councils being established by the Department of Industry and Commerce and serviced by the tripartite secretariat to which I referred in the debate on the estimates of that department. 
Employees in Australia, whatever their occupation, must expect that they will need to be retrained or frequently to update their knowledge on the job. This will be done to varying extents, a fact which has been reflected already in our wage structure and will have to be reflected more in the future with relativity adjustments. That is a problem beyond the power of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. However, the Minister will be able to influence employers to recognise that they will have to revise their systems of work if they are to attract and retain a work force which will derive job satisfaction from its work, thereby reducing job turnover, absenteeism and industrial disruption. As a consequence of that, productivity will increase and it will be an increase which is essential to the wellbeing of all Australians. 
Capital investment is a key to improved productivity and the economic strategy of this Government has had as its core measures designed to stimulate investment in manufacturing industry. Investment decisions will be made by industry on the basis of market studies. Such studies will point to new areas for manufacturing. These new sectors of industry will require new skills. It is a very interesting fact that the labour intensive processing and assembly areas are both the most costly and the most dull. Virtually we have had a concept of dullness money in Australia as well as dirt, danger and height money. Because of increasing improvements in the educational standards of school leavers, our newly inducted employees aspire to jobs other than the dirty, dangerous and dull. This is why there are job vacancies in parts of our manufacturing industry and that thousands of persons who are registered for employment refuse to take jobs for which they are qualified or would soon be qualified with a short period of on-the-job training. This is a serious structural problem which the Minister and the Government face. It is not just a problem for the Minister. 
The famous White Paper of 1945 on full employment aimed at providing a job for everyone who wished to work. That was a huge advance on what has existed previously. In 1945 it was said specifically that society expected its government only to provide its members with a job but not necessarily the job of their choice. Now people are saying that within the limits of their talents and education they should have the job of their choice. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  therefore have a joint task every bit as difficult as that of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in seeking to reduce inflation and restore economic growth. Their task is a joint task. They must establish tripartite machinery for ensuring that the community's wishes are understood and they then must devise policies to meet these wishes as best the economy can afford. 
To the extent that these vital matters have been debated in our society, there have been 3 very important strands of thought. One has been termed the quarry mentality. By it it is said that we can export our minerals and our rural products and import our manufactured goods. The holders of that view may on occasion allow us to have some tariff or other protection for manufacturing for defence purposes but otherwise they do not believe that manufacturing has a place unless it can be competitive internationally and does not require protection. What the unemployment figures would be if that mentality prevailed one would hate to think. I am prepared to accept that the day may come when we pay people not to work. Then it would be a privilege to and it would not be a social stigma not to work. If that day comes we certainly would have developed a creative leisure ethic to complement the then modified work ethic. With well over half of our population under 30 years of age and technology advancing at breathtaking, and jobtaking, pace that day may come sooner that many now contemplate, but it is not here yet. 
Another strand of thought seems somehow to assume that manufacturing industry can go on operating as it has done for the last generation or two and that we will resolve our unemployment problems that way without doing anything to restructure manufacturing industry and create new jobs. A study of our cost structure, trade patterns and employment market shows that that is not so. I mentioned some of those reasons earlier. 
The third strand is the one which I endorse and is the one that can be discerned from the Jackson Committee green paper. In short, we need a restructured manufacturing industry which will employ people in satisfying jobs in industries which are essentially competitive internationally but which may from time to time and perhaps always require some protection. 
This is easier said than done but it is the big challenge before us. It is about time we had a general debate on that matter instead of nit picking over small short term considerations. In this regard the joint task of the Ministers is the most crucial of all for the Government. Short term protection, of course, is needed to preserve jobs pending retraining and investment pending re-investment and the re-investment will be in areas such as mineral processing. A perpetuation of high levels of protection and the importation of another generation of factory fodder is not the answer. That would only postpone these extremely difficult questions until they became impossible. Moreover, the immediate and intermediate cost burden would be more than even our generously endowed economy could sustain. 
Just as the Government must protect jobs in the short term by tariffs, quotas, design rules and standards, it must make it clear to employers and employees that high levels of protection cannot be continued indefinitely because of the burden they impose on our export earning industries, which include the manufacturing industry. Meanwhile the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is to be congratulated for having begun to tackle the youth employment and retraining problems. The magnitude of his task is compounded by the categories of hidden unemployment of which he is well aware, but that problem will not even emerge until he has solved his present problem of getting those who now are unemployed back to work in jobs, however temporary, before they retrain for something else. 
We are discussing a Bill dealing with the Export Finance Insurance Corporation. It is a Bill which I most wholeheartedly support. The requirements of the business of the House are such that one must confine ones speaking to approximately 10 minutes. There is much that I would have liked to say in support of this legislation and by way of analysis of the operation of the Corporation itself. However, I will confine myself to saying in the 10 minutes I have that the most important distinction between EFIC- the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation- and its predecessor EPIC- the Export Payments Insurance Corporationis that EFIC is obliged to provide export finance for medium and long term credit sales of machinery, capital equipment and associated services, and the establishment of lines of credit, especially to developing countries and State' trading organisations. 
In order to match where necessary the export financing facilities which are available to competing foreign suppliers, EFIC is able to provide loan funds at concessional rates of interest. Of course, this is most important. The first report of EFIC which covers the period from 1 February 1975 to 30 June 1975 records the limited terms upon which this concessional rate of interest may be granted. This year's Budget has improved the effective position of EFIC. I congratulate the Government upon that, but I cannot urge too strongly upon it the fact that much more extensive export incentives are required if we are to achieve the growth in markets, technologies and economies of scale needed to sustain export oriented manufacturing industries spoken of so sensibly in the Jackson Committee Green Paper. In this regard, I must say that whilst I cannot canvass in the time available all of the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  he pointed out many of the difficulties involved in achieving what the Jackson Committee sought. 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  the former Minister for Overseas Trade, in presenting the second reading speech of the Bill establishing EFIC set out very eloquently the reasons why manufacturing industry needed this form of export assistance for the benefit of Australia. I think it is a great shame that EFIC was not then made more extensive, for the reasons set out by the Minister, and has not been made more extensive since. It is also a great shame that the reasoning applied by the honourable member for Lalor was not also applied to the Export Market Development Grants Act. I know that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports says that the previous system of export incentives by way of tax deduction was abused. I say in reply to that that if they were abused, eliminate the abuse; do not eliminate the incentives. What happened was that the incentives were eliminated and the export Market Development Grants Act which was put in their place was quite inadequate. The present Minister for Overseas Trade and  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and I in Opposition condemned that Act as being quite inadequate. I have reread those speeches recently and I find that they stand the test of time. I trust that the  Deputy  Prime Minister will soon rectify the deficiencies which he then pointed out in that scheme. I trust that there will be extensive treatment of EFIC under future Budgets. Certainly under this Budget there has been an extension of EFIC. I hope that this Bill is an earnest of the Government's determination to implement its election undertaking by introducing an extensive export incentive scheme. 
Of course, it is no fault of the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation itself that it has not been more effective. It has been confined by the Act under which it operates. To some extent we are adding to its flexibility by way of this amendment. It has been confined also by the depressed state of the world economy. I hope that in the next 18 months we will see infinitely more progress in both regards than we have seen in the past 18 months. One has to ask whether the new facility which was added to the former EPIC and converted into EFIC which we are amending here really improved the situation. I think the short answer to that question is that it is an improvement but that a great deal more assistance to manufacturers is required in order to encourage more exports. Certainly we have to overcome a good many obstacles if we are to be, as a country, an effective exporter of capital goods. One sees that the EFIC scheme has been expanded under the Budget. I congratulate the Government for that. It certainly has expanded in recognition of the need for increased export incentives. It is stated on page 86 of Budget Paper No. 1: 
A new arrangement for financing EFIC's export finance activities began in July this year. The trading banks have agreed to fund the export finance facility by way of loans at commercial rates of interest The Corporation will on-lend the funds to foreign buyers at concessional rates of interest. The 'gap' between the commercial rates at which EFIC will borrow and the corporation's on-lending rates will be financed from the Budget by an interest rate subsidy payable to EFIC each year. A provision of $500,000 has been made in the Budget for this purpose. 
The Government is to be commended for this extension in this year's Budget. The same Budget Paper adds that the subsidy commitment authority for this financial year will be extended to $15m and that this figure will be renewed annually. Although genuine congratulations are in order, I hope that the  Deputy  Prime Minister will not need to be reminded that exporters are far from happy with the extent of export assistance granted and that a great deal more is necessary. I trust that with the aid of the board of EFIC, the Minister will monitor the new scheme carefully and that he will examine independently the adequacy or inadequacy of the Export Market Development Grants Act of which he is only too well aware. The Minister has committed himself publicly over many years on the need for export incentives for manufacturing industry. Therefore, my remarks are not so much intended for the Minister for Overseas Trade and  Deputy  Prime Minister as they are intended for any other persons within the Cabinet or the bureaucracy who may need convincing about the need for export incentives for manufacturers. 
It is a fact that manufacturing industry is in serious, even grave, economic trouble. Those parts of manufacturing industry which are able to earn export income for Australia are entitled to expect and receive assistance in so doing. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports cast doubt about that but let there be no doubt that the problem to which he was referring- the problem of employing future generations of Australiansis very much linked with the viability of our manufacturing industry which in turn is very much linked with its capacity to gain technology and economies of scale by way of exports. This is especially important when one considers the reasoning of the Jackson Committee which was referred to by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports and which showed the need for export oriented industries which are internationally competitive. The recent movements in costs, taxation and exhange rates have cost Aus.tralian manufacturers dearly. Many will find markets difficult to regain even with Government assistance. This is no argument, however, to say that we should not have Government export incentives. I have spoken in this House and elsewhere of the urgent need for the Government to set forth its vision for a restructured manufacturing industry in which both capital and labour know the rules. They can then invest their resources in a way which is both satisfying for them and beneficial for Australia. I believe that it is of crucial importance for Australia that the Government adopt policies with this aim in view. The White Paper on manufacturing industry is therefore of the utmost importance. In this, there is a most important role for an enlarged export Finance Insurance Corporation and an extended Export Market Development Grants Act. Quite clearly, future tariff and exchange rate policies must be linked if we are to foster export oriented internationally competitive manufacturing industries. Such a linkage of policies, hitherto regarded separately, will provide the best stimulus to exports of manufactured goods. 
Nevertheless, EFIC will always be needed. I trust that this Government will always heed constructive criticisms of its operation and continue to improve it. Likewise in the strongest possible terms I urge the Minister to heed the trenchant criticisms of the Australian Manufacturers Export Council regarding the operation of the Export Market Development Grants Act. In listening to the debate in this House about exports one would be entitled to assume more often than not that only the mining and rural industries contribute to the export earnings of Australia. This is not so. Statistics show that over SO per cent of our exports in most years comprise mining and manufacturing exports and they in turn are competing neck and neck for the greater share of that SO per cent. If one includes mineral processing in mining rather than in manufacturing, then mining just edges manufacturing out of second place. 
I wholeheartedly support this Bill in the same way as when we were m Opposition I supported the Export Market Development Grants Bill. In both cases and for similar reasons I regard them as quite inadequate to stimulate to the necessary degree the export of manufactured goods and I hope that in the coming 12 months this Government will consider very seriously the need to extend exports of manufactured goods. 
I have great pleasure in supporting this Bill. I congratulate the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  on it. As the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said, this is a matter which we do not view in any former colonial perspective. We welcome the fact that in a post colonial situation we have reached that stage of maturity that we welcome the fact that the independent Republic of Nauru is seeking the High Court of Australia as its ultimate court of appeal. 
I speak on this matter because of a somewhat nostalgic reason, a personal involvement. I was involved, together with  Senator Chaney  of this Parliament, in a case in the court of appeal of the then Colony of Nauru some 10 years or so ago. That case concerned the very kind of factual situation which has led the Republic of Nauru to feel that it should bring a further independent tribunal to bear on its judicial system. That case involved criminal charges against persons who were not residents of Nauru but in fact were from the Gilbert and Ellice Islands. Those people are in the situation of being virtually guest workers in Nauru. 
The purpose of this Bill, as the AttorneyGeneral said in his second reading speech, is to seek parliamentary approval to an agreement made on 6 September 1976 between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Government of the Republic of Nauru. That agreement provides for appeals to lie to the High Court from certain classes of decisions of the Supreme Court of Nauru. The text of the agreement is set out in the schedule to the Bill. 
It is noteworthy that a former colony, for want of a better word- in the strict technical sense it was not a colony- has sought this facility from its former colonial master, if one uses the rhetoric which certain people in this chamber would like to use. It is noteworthy also that clause 7 of the Bill, in referring to the constitution of the court, provides that the High Court, when hearing an appeal or application for leave referred to in clause 5, is to be constituted as a full court of not less than 2 justices. The Supreme Court of Nauru consists of a single Chief Justice and therefore it is appropriate to ensure that appeals or applications to appeals from his decisions are determined by at least 2 justices of the High Court. This arises, of course, out of the feeling of the citizens of Nauru that justice would be seen to be done if cases were dealt with by 2 persons independent of the rather limited environment and atmosphere of the island of Nauru which has been delineated by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith. 
Clause 8 refers to the judgment of the High Court and sets out the nature of the judgment - that the High Court may. give on an appeal from Nauru. I think the nature of that judgment is set out in sufficiently wide terms in clause 8 to enable the High Court to express its judgment in any form which is appropriate to a particular case before it It is not a rigid situation and it is not a matter of saying that what prevails in Australia is necessarily appropriate for Nauru. Equally, clause 9 provides for a difference of opinion and enables a decision to be reached in the event- of either a majority of the court being in favour of or the court being evenly divided on a question before it. 
Clause 10 deals with the right of appearance. Subject to this clause, subclause ( 1 ) enables a party to a proceeding to appear personally, or to be represented by a practitioner of the High Court of Australia or the Supreme Court of a State or Territory, or by a barrister and solicitor of the Supreme Court of Nauru. Under this clause it is recognised also that in its terms the laws of Nauru relating to the admission of practitioners are to be applicable. Sub-clause (2) prevents a party to a criminal appeal from appearing in person if he is under sentence of imprisonment by a court of Nauru and has not served the sentence or so much of the sentence as is required of him. 
I do not wish to repeat what was said by the Attorney-General in his second reading speech; suffice it to say that the substantive clauses of the Bill vest jurisdiction to hear and determine appeals and applications that come within the scope of the agreement in the High Court and make appropriate provisions for relevant procedural matters. The High Court has held that it may have conferred upon it appellate jurisdiction other than from State courts so long as there is a proper source of power for legislation conferring other jurisdiction. The power in the Constitution to legislate with respect to external affairs and also with respect to relations of the Commonwealth with the islands of the Pacific would enable the Parliament to enact the Bill so there is no doubt about the constitutional validity of this Bill. 
Nauru, as we know, is a small independent country. I think I am correct in saying that it is the smallest country which is a member of the 
United Nations. It has a community of mixed ethnic origins. The population of Nauru is around the 7000 mark, about half of that number being citizens of Nauru, about onequarter being people from other Pacific islands, mainly from the Gilbert and Ellice Islands as I mentioned before, and the remaining quarter being Chinese and Europeans in equal proportions. It is particularly with respect to the Gilbert and Ellice Islanders that this measure is sought so that justice may be seen to be done by all concerned in Nauru. The Nauruans have been most anxious to demonstrate, particularly in matters of a civil or criminal nature, that there are available, especially to those non-Nauruan communities, rights of appeal beyond the Supreme Court of Nauru. That Court consists at the moment of a single chief justice and obviously it is important to the Nauruans to ensure that there are rights of access to the appellate court sitting as a full court in matters that are not of special or peculiar interest to Nauruans. The matters left outside the arrangements for appeal to the High Court are, for example, constitutional questions relating to Nauru, entitlement to sit in the Nauruan Parliament and land ownership. This question of land ownership involves matters determined under the traditional Nauruan system and has nothing to do with matters considered ordinarily by the High Court of Australia. 
When Nauru was a trust territory administered by Australia an appeal lay, as the AttorneyGeneral 's second reading speech described, from the then Court of Appeal to the High Court of Australia. At the time of which I spoke the then Court of Appeal was the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Papua New Guinea. In that period there were no appeals from thethen Court of Appeal to the High Court and no reliable estimate of the volume of appeals to the High Court under the new arrangements is available. I think it is fair to say that while there may be some initial interest, there is not likely to be a great deal of work arising for the High Court under this Bill. However, this Bill is, in every conceptual sense of the word, a most worthy measure and something of which this Parliament should be proud. It represents something which this nation of ours should be pleased to do for one of our near neighbours, the Republic of Nauru. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1) Is his Department conducting inquiries concerning the effect of traffic noise upon the community. 
Is his Department considering the adoption of new design rules for motor vehicles to ensure that they are quieter than vehicles currently upon the road. 
Has his department gathered evidence regarding the detrimental effect which heavy vehicles have upon properties and people when these vehicles travel regularly through residential areas. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons in the Electoral Division of Balaclava were registered as unemployed as at (a) July 1972), (b) July 1973, (c) July 1974, (d) July 1975 and (e) July 1976. 
What proportion of those persons were (a) under 2 1 years of age,.(b) 2 1 to 45 years of age and (c) over 45 years of age. 
What proportion were (a) males and (b) females. 
How many dependants were claimed by these persons. 
What were the principal work categories stated as being those of the persons unemployed. 
How many of those persons (a) were engaged in apprenticeships or traineeships when retrenched and (b) had completed apprenticeships or traineeships. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
With reference to his answer on 26 August 1976 to a question without notice by the honourable member for Riverina, will he consider, as a matter of urgency, whether it is practicable to grant the form of foreign aid advocated by the organisation known as ' For Those Who Have Less '. 
Will he make his views public as scon as possible. 
-Has the Attorney-General seen an editorial in yesterday's  Canberra Times  criticising the Government for an Executive Concil decision allegedly vetoing an ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly decriminalising homosexual conduct between consenting males in private? If so, will the Attorney-General say whether there is any truth in this report and state the Government's intention with regard to the ordinance? 
-The notion of worker participation, of course, means all things to all persons. It would be quite wrong, when we have an embryonic department, for me to indicate any specific ways in which the Government might encourage labour and management to get together. But clearly, the Government has indicated  ad nauseam  its support for improved lines of communication between labour and management. It would be one of the areas in which we would be endeavouring to assist people really almost on a plant by plant basis to devise for themselves the most appropriate form of communication. The second part of the question is not within my province and I will not have an answer. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Patent, Trade Marks and Designs Office for the year ended 30 June 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 1968-69 the Commonwealth has provided annual grants to the Inventors ' Association of Australia, a non-profit organisation which provides private investors who are members of the Association with free advice and guidance in the development of new ideas. These payments have taken the form of base grants, and grants which' match ' contributions to the Association from other sources up to an annual limit. Payments made to the Association are as follows: 
In recent days there have been many comments about the adverse impact of an across-the-board measure like devaluation. I am very glad that the honourable member has sought to examine some of the positive aspects of this because we are, as we know, renowned as a nation of knockers. Let us look at the positive aspects of devaluation. First of all, for one thing it will arrest some of those board room decisions which were being made to take industry offshore. It will thereby retain jobs in industry. It will also discourage the further outflow of capital which is needed for investment in industry and thereby encourage the creation of jobs in industry. Furthermore, it will enable Australian manufacturers to compete with imports, thereby retaining and in the course of time extending jobs in industry. It will enable Australian manufacturers to export more of their goods, thereby enabling them to invest or expand their plant and employ more people. Unquestionably this measure will be of short and medium term benefit of a considerable extent and in the long term it will greatly improve productivity of industry. It is about time - 
The honourable member for Melbourne is interjecting, joining the team of knockers in this country. Any across-the-board measure of course will discomfort some people. 
The honourable member for Wills asks why it was not done earlier. The point is that it is an across-the-board measure. 
On two other occasions recently in this House the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  has raised the question of youth unemployment and unemployment generally. The first occasion was on 7 September. There was a second occasion, on 6 October, when similar questions were debated. On the first occasion the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and on the second occasion the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard),  who was then acting as the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, provided answers to most of the criticisms which have been made again today by the honourable member for Gellibrand. The honourable member does not agree that they answered them, but in terms of the problem they did. In his speech today the honourable member said that the Government had adopted only token policies regarding youth. He said that the Government's economic policy had failed and that its policy in relation to the youth employment program had been token. 
First of all, with regard to economic policy, it was made abundantly clear by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his policy speech last year that economic recovery would be slow. In debates in this chamber on this subject it has been made clear by members on both sides of the House that the employment situation is directly related to the curbing of inflation and that the structural problems relating to employment are of a long term nature and will require a long term solution. I should like to refer particularly to an answer given by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to a question without notice asked by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred)  on 30 November. It appears in  Hansard  at page 2943 and answers many of the points raised today. I should like to quote a portion of that answer. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations made it clear that approximately 250 000 young people will leave secondary education in the next few weeks. He made it clear that some will try to find employment for themselves and some will go on with further education. There is no reason to assume that the pattern which existed this year will be different next year. The pattern this year was that approximately 180 000 or 95 per cent of those school leavers who sought employment actually found employment. There is no reason to assume that the picture will be any different in the next 12 months. The Government has taken a number of initiatives in this area, and they were mentioned by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in the answer to which I have already referred. He stated: 
Recently the Government has taken several initiatives in this field to help. 1 refer particularly to the subsidy of $59 a week to employers who- I emphasise this,  Mr Speakerprovide  a course of training for young people who have a history of high unemployment in the previous 12 months. This initiative is already a great success. I am advised that some 2300 young persons have been placed now under that scheme. We will be monitoring that scheme very carefully and will review it at the end of January in the light of the employment situation then. 
That is a very important point. Whilst the honourable member for Gellibrand said that we had made only token gestures and that there would be competition by those school leavers of this year who are still on the employment market with next year's school leavers, the fact is that the Government will constantly review the criteria which it applies in relation to the special youth employment training program. That program has indeed been very successful. It was introduced on 1 October of this year and in the first 4 weeks of its operation 1 100 of the youths who were still unemployed were employed. By 1 1 November the estimate was that 2300 persons were being trained under that program. 
The criteria were then reviewed and now, as has been made clear, anyone between the ages of 15 years and 19 years who has been unemployed for a total of 6 months of the previous 12 months or who has been out of work even though not registered for unemployment will be eligible for assistance under the scheme. This is no token; it is in fact a very important step towards reducing unemployment amongst the 5 per cent of last year's school leavers- only 5 per cent- who had not found employment. When one says 'only 5 per cent', one does not take comfort from any unemployment figure. This has been made clear in other debates to which I have referred. For example, on 6 October the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs said, as reported at page 1547 of  Hansard: 
I share the concern of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  about the level of youth unemployment in Australia at the present time. I also acknowledge to be a fact, as he stated, that this is not a problem which has suddenly come upon us. Indeed, my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  when speaking in the House on a similar matter of public importance raised by the Opposition, pointed out that many of the problems in terms of the high level of youth unemployment experienced in Australia find their genesis in changes and happenings which occurred in Australia in the 1950s and 1960s. Of course the Government regards youth unemployment as a particularly serious problem. It does have serious social consequences. The Government acknowledges that. We also make it very clear that it is our belief that a longterm solution to the high level of youth unemployment in Australia is inseparable from a long-term solution to the general level of unemployment. 
This, of course, is so. No one takes comfort from any unemployment level, but for reasons which the honourable member for Gellibrand knows and to which he adverted in his speech today, and as the Jackson Committee made clear, there has been a long standing, deep seated malaise in the manufacturing industry, which is where the principal unemployment has been created. The honourable member, in his discussion of the devaluation strategy, did not refer to the impact upon manufacturing. I think that implicit in his comments was the fact that he believes devaluation will not assist to create jobs. We all know the story about economists who never reach agreement. But it is the Government's belief that the devaluation will assist the creation of jobs in manufacturing industry. 
I would not deny, and I know the honourable member for Gellibrand would not deny, that in future when we improve productivity in manufacturing industry we do run the risk of constantly creating job vacancies which require retraining and not always retraining in areas of manufacturing. But what is clear is that when the economy gets a boost or an improvement as a result of stimulus in any one sector of the economy, albeit in the mining sector, then the gross national product increases and jobs can be created in support industries, including the tertiary sector of the economy. However, I utterly repudiate the theory which seems to abound in certain quarters that we can dispense with our manufacturing industry and somehow or another the slack will always be taken up in the tertiary industries. 
I mention those problems to indicate that the Government does not see the creation of jobs in the manufacturing sector of the economy to be an easy task. Structural problems have arisen over many years. The impact of policies of the Labor Government, to which we have referred many times, happened to bring about quite a catastrophic jump in the unemployment figures. But long before the advent of the Labor Government the previous coalition Government, with its 
Ministers for Labour and National Service- as the portfolio was then called- were warning about structural unemployment difficulties. It is fair to say that neither governments of any persuasion nor management, nor unions, have actually sat down to tackle those problems. One of the reasons for the creation of the Department of Productivity was to show that this Government was determined that those deep seated, long standing problems would be tackled. But no one wishes to create false expectations about the ease with which the problems can be solved. 
Let us look at precisely what the Government has set out to do. As I mentioned, it has created a special youth employment training program. It has created the community youth support scheme, which is at the moment in its early stages and cannot be evaluated. But over 200 inquiries have been received from organisations that have put up programs which they request be funded. Of course, those programs will be able to stimulate some employment for youth. It is true to say that for many reasons youth unemployment is the most serious of the categories of unemployed which we currently have. This is one reason also why the State Ministers for Labor and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations have been holding a series of meetings on the apprenticeship system. It would be the wish of all 7 governments in Australia to expand the apprenticeship system but again, as with so many aspects of the employment situation, one cannot just turn on the tap and suddenly create jobs. 
The matter is being looked at carefully and is being looked at in a non-party political sense by the 7 governments. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations hopes that in the new year some further progress can be made in that direction. Certainly, pleas have been made to employers to recognise their vested interest in training apprentices and to take on more apprentices in the future. Equally, I can say that, in respect of the Department of Productivity, the government factories will be taking on more apprentices for the purpose of training people for private industry as well as for service as skilled tradesmen in the government factories. 
All these factors are slight contributions but, again, no one says that we can find an easy, across-the-board answer. In respect of the honourable member's criticisms of the devaluation policy, one can only say that it would have been nice if we could have found a more selective remedy than devaluation. The reasons for the inevitably of devaluation have been canvassed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  many times. It is fair to say that the policies of the previous Government had an across-the-board effect in respect of its revaluation of currency adjustments, its tariff cuts, which had an across-the-board effect at least with respect to manufacturing and its spending programs which contributed to the high inflation rate, which, in turn, had a very much across-the-board effect. 
Of course there will always be arguments but the ultimate test will be in the market place. It is the Government's belief that devaluation will help to create jobs. It will stem the flow of jobs out of the country by virtue of arresting certain board room decisions which were inclined to establish manufacturing off shore. A lot of decisions have been made in the last few years along those lines. The Government is of the view that those manufacturing industries which now wish to export will be able to do so and will extend their operations and therefore create more jobs in the process. Those who will be able better to compete with imports will be able to extend their employment. Again, it will not happen quickly but it will happen surely. The Government will be working to try to ensure that school leavers will have better prospects next year than they have had in the last several years. 
It is worth quoting the figures of the last several years because one can see the rapid deterioration. In December 1972, when the coalition Government went out of office, those unemployed persons who were classified as juniors, the youth unemployed about whom we are talking today, amounted to 80 395. That figure included 53 741 school leavers. In December 1975, when the Labor Government went out of office, the figure was 152 543, which included 60 249 school leavers. So one can see that the actual number of school leavers increased by 7000 over those 2 years but the number of unemployed had increased by 70 000. That is a serious reflection on the total impact of policies upon the unemployment picture m the 3 years of the Labor Government. But I do not wish to give a wrong impression. As has been said frequently by Government Ministers, the problems were structural, they were difficult and they were compounded by those years of Labor policy but they cannot be redressed overnight. I would like to refer also, in closing, to the speech of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  on 6 October in which he made clear the perspective in which this problem has to be viewed. He said that it is a longer term policy. The Government is endeavouring to set it back - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
It will disappoint the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  to know that members of the Government backbench are not in disarray and their morale is not destroyed. In fact they have been exercising a most commendable independence of mind in expressing constructive nuances on the economic strategy of the Government. This is a healthy attitude. It is to be encouraged. It is always encouraged by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  These constructive comments have been in marked contrast to the number of negative comments which have come not only from the Opposition in this chamber but also from certain people in public positions. The important point is to examine the serious economic situation which still confronts Australia and to try to examine the strategy which has been adopted consistently by the Government. I refute any suggestion as made by the honourable member for Adelaide, that the Government is embarking upon a course of confrontation with the trade union movement. This is not so. There is no solution for anyone in confrontation. 
I refute also the allegation that the control of inflation is no longer the main task facing the Government and that the Government has departed from its strategy of curbing inflation. Inflation has been reduced. Employment opportunities will increase and the level of unemployment will decrease. The important point is that the Budget strategy, which was announced in August, is consistent with the economic policy adopted by the Government from the beginning of the year and is still the thrust of the Government 's economic strategy. The only departure from that strategy is in relation to devaluation. I shall come to that in a moment. The honourable member for Adelaide remarked on the absence of the Treasurer in the House during this debate. I shall refer substantially to remarks made by the Treasurer so that his absence will not be felt in terms of substantial discussion. 
I direct the attention of honourable members to the Budget strategy which was the core of the Government's policy and still is the core of the Government's policy. I should like to refer to my own summation of that strategy on 7 September this year at page 763 of  Hansard.  I stated:  the Budget strategy has S basic principles. These may be stated as being; making the reduction in the rate of inflation the essential aim of government policy for the time being; restraining government spending in order to allow the private sector to expand and create jobs in the medium term; restricting government taxation revenue in order to encourage further wage restraint and improve both business profitability and confidence, reducing the size of the deficit in order to moderate increases in the money supply; and continuing to implement selective social programs based on recommendations of the Henderson report on poverty and on a philosophy of assisting the most disadvantaged and assisting others to help themselves more effectively. 
That, in a nutshell, is the economic policy of the Government which has not been departed from in any way. There is no way that it can be said that we have adopted  ad hoc  economic measures. Those 5 basic principles have been adhered to by the Government. It is still our concern to have as our first target the control of inflation. What has occurred has been an un-sought devaluation- a devaluation which has positive impacts that have been ignored. Most attention has been focused on the inevitable unfortunate impact which comes from any across the board measure. I turn to the Treasurer's own statement of 28 November in which he announced the decision to devalue. The statement reads: 
The changed system would permit the use of the exchange rate, by means of changes upwards or downwards in the rate as appropriate, as a more flexible element amongst the available arms of economic policy. 
The Government has been forced to devalue,  Mr Lynch  said, because of the deterioration that had occurred over recent years in Australia's underlying external situation, as a result of the higher increase in wage costs than in our major trading partners and the continuing loss of reserves. 
The Treasurer went on in that statement to explain that the Government, although it knew that the exchange rate was overvalued compared with other currencies, nonetheless sought to obtain the necessary discipline within the Australian community in order to reduce inflation and to create more job opportunities. When this action became inevitable, for reasons set out clearly in that statement by the Treasurer, the Government could adopt no course other than to devalue. I repeat: That course does not depart from the S principles contained in the Budget strategy and the earlier statement of economic policy which has governed the policies of this Government. Page 4 of the Press release issued by the Treasurer on 28 November states: 
This decline in reserves had continued despite the additional monetary measures announced on 7 November and had left official reserves at 26 November at around $2, 100m, sufficient to cover less than three months' imports. 
It is worth interposing that when Labor came to office reserves stood at a record level of $4.6 billion. The Treasurer went on to say: 
Added to that the Government faced the prospect of an even greater rate of outflow around the end of December/early January period. 
The Treasurer in that extract of 28 November stated further 
There would also be a close monitoring of the volume of lending by the various financial institutions to ensure that the growth in lending came back from recent excessive and unsustainable levels to a pace consistent with the sound development of the economy. 
I quoted that to refute the suggestion that the policies are  ad hoc  and that for some reason there is a vacuum of policies. It is perfectly clear to anyone who really wishes to look at the matter objectively that all arms of policy to which the Prime Minister and the Treasurer have referred over recent days are being monitored constantly so that steps can be taken to control any aspect of policy which appears to be putting further pressure on inflation. The various terms of pessimism which have been mentioned by other speakers only talk down the economy and do not improve it. 
Seeing that reference has been made to the fact that the Treasurer is not here I want to again quote something which needs to be repeated. I quote from a statement made by the Treasurer in this House on 30 November in which he said: 
Suggestions that the Government's economic strategy has failed are without foundation; what has not been possible is the continuation of efforts to hold the exchange rate. It has not been possible because of the obvious limitations in the extent to which reliance can be placed on any single instrument of economic policy. Let me repeat: Assertions that the Government's economic strategy has not worked neglect the achievements that are the result of that strategy. The rate of inflation has moderated in each quarter since the S.6 per cent increase in prices recorded in the December quarter of last year. Prices increased 3 per cent in the March quarter, 2.S per cent in the June quarter and 2.2 per cent in the September quarter. Figures published recently shows that Australia's rate of inflation is now broadly in line with the OECD average. Industrial production has firmed since July. Activity in the housing sector remains buoyant. Registrations of new passenger vehicles have recovered to more normal levels, following the sharp decline in July and August due to the introduction of more stringent emission control standards. The weakening in the labour market has been largely arrested over the course of the September quarter. 
I think that statement is a matter of which the House should again take note. It shows the consistent nature of Government policy and the achievements of that policy, bearing in mind the constant stress by the Prime Minister that it is a long haul and that a slow recovery is what the Government is aiming for. It will be a slow sure recovery; it will not be a yo-yo such as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  implied at question time today. 
I quote another extract from the Treasurer's speech on 30 November. He said: 
The fact is that, faced with the rundown in reserves, there were only 2 alternatives; the options put to the Government by its advisers were devaluation or borrowing on official account, of the order of $1 billion, to shore up the reserves position. In these circumstances the Government could have allowed the situation to drift on and attempted to arrange further borrowings overseas to finance what would inevitably have been further outflows of private capital. The announcement of large additional borrowings, m a situation where our underlying external situation remained out of line with our competitors, would have had perverse effects, leading to an escalating increase in the rate of loss of reserves. Such a loss, together with any additional borrowings the Government had been able to undertake would have involved enormous costs to the authorities in the event that we were forced to make an exchange adjustment 
I want to quote one more extract from that speech but in the course of doing so let me remind the House that we would have had to borrow at least another $1 billion from international sources and this, in the estimate of the Treasurer, would only have bridged the situation temporarily. It would not have averted speculation, it would not have averted capital outflow, it would not have preserved jobs and it would have led to an eventual decision about devaluation. It was with reluctance but with wisdom that the Government took its decision to devalue. Towards the end of that speech on 30 November in this House the Treasurer said: 
The devaluation will restore the long run growth prospects for this sector - 
That is the mining sector- and increase annual export returns significantly- perhaps by approaching half a billion dollars. The devaluation wilalso go a long way towards offsetting the effect of excessive wage increases on costs of manufacturing and service industries such as tourism, enhancing their competitive ability. The removal of uncertainty about the exchange rate will restore investor confidence. 
What Australia requires most of all is investment. Our scarcest commodity is capital. We have seen, even in 1973 and 1974 when we had record increases in wages, further squirreling and further saving by wage earners. People who talk of a consumer led recovery have not found the means whereby we can unlock people's savings. We recognise that we need investment in Australia. We have a situation where because of speculation about our over valued dollar money was not coming into Australia- on the contrary money was going out of Australia- and investment was not taking place in manufacturing industry, the industry which provides employment and in which the greatest unemployment has occurred. Export potential unquestionably will be increased as a result of the devaluation decision and will lead to further investment and more jobs. 
Much has been said about the trade unions. It is fair to say that the rank and file of the trade unions have recognised that if those who are currently in employment can minimise their wage demands then those who are unemployed will have a greater chance of gaining a job. Real wage increases in fact can really come only when we have a substantial increase in productivity. We do not seek to improve productivity merely by improvements in technology alone, nor by managerial decisions alone. Nor do we seek to improve it by decisions of the rank and file regarding their systems of work and their contributions. We seek to do it by mutual cooperation, a recognition that there is mutual self interest in improving our efficiency and reducing our costs of production- that is improving our productivity. 
It has been the decision of the Government to look at the long term productivity prospects in parallel with the economic strategy begun from the day the Government came into office. That is a strategy aimed at a medium term recovery. No one suggested it was to be a short term panacea, a short term recovery. That economic strategy has continued unabated. There is nothing  ad hoc  about it as suggested by this discussion. The estimates of an inflationary impact concerning devaluation cannot be quantified. One has to ask the Opposition whether it seriously looks at the alternative to devaluation. If it seriously looks at that it would realise that the economic situation of Australia would be infinitely worse over the next few months than it will be as a result of the decision to devalue. 
I can only stress again that the Government is constantly monitoring all the arms of policy and will adjust them according to need. The problem of this across-the-board measure was very much the result of a series of across-the-board measures taken by the Labor Government- upward valuations, across-the-board expenditure, inflation which had an across-the-board effect and tariff cuts which were of an across-the-board nature. We have reduced speculation, reduced capital outflow, increased capital inflow, increased investment prospects and industries have ceased going offshore. We have increased the employment position as a result. We can compete with imports, we can have higher exports. We can gradually get ourselves back to the standard of living which all Australians seek if they have the patience and the restraint to live with the Government's strategies. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act 1976 I present the annual report of the Australian Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board for the year 1975-76. 
-The policy of the Government is to ensure that there is equality of opportunity and equal status for all people in our society and in order to help to achieve that goal the Government has- 
-. . . established a women's film fund which will provide financial support in the form of investment for films by, for and about women. Film projects such as  Caddie  were funded by the National Advisory Committee for International Women's Year and returns on investment - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government is well aware of the contribution made by such organisations to working women. The situation is receiving urgent attention and an announcement will be made as soon as possible. 
Cheddar Cheese: Imports from New Zealand (Question No. 1625) 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) A decision was made at Departmental level in 1975 that uniforms for Commonwealth car drivers would be purchased from the private sector when the Australian Government Clothing Factory was unable to deliver uniforms within times to meet Transport Branch requirements. In other cases, existing arrangements for the manufacture of uniforms for Commonwealth car drivers by the Australian Government Clothing Factory  still exist. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The new Department of Productivity will be responsible for those matters which it was envisaged would be handled by a Productivity Commission and a Productivity Study Centre. 
The Department will be working in close collaboration with other organisations involved in productivity promotion, and is being organised so as to facilitate investigation of the means of increasing productivity, including improved technology transfer. 
-This Government does not believe in imposing a system of worker directors or works councils or any other form of so-called worker participation by way of legislation or other means. However, the Government positively encourages particular managements and their employees to get together and devise for themselves a better way of communicating and consulting. In that respect the Government is prepared to provide advice and information and to make any legislative changes which may be necessary to eliminate any obstacles stemming from Commonwealth legislation which may be in the way of those managements and their employees who want to adopt one of the forms of worker participation. The Government believes that any notion of imposing a system of worker directors or works councils upon companies will not improve industrial relations or productivity generally. The Government believes that some may decide to experiment with ideas of that nature and they are welcome to do so. The Government will not be imposing such a system in any circumstances. Any government, State or Federal, which seeks to do so will find that there is no panacea, no universal application, and that it will not be of general benefit in productivity improvement. 
It is a fact that under the block grant under the community health program of the Federal Government the Queensland Government decided not to pass on any Federal funds to the women's refuges which were mentioned by the honourable member. It is also a fact that they are in need of funds and that the Prime Minister raised the matter with the Queensland Premier last September. The Queensland Premier later indicated that he was adhering to the decision of his Government of last July. As a result, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Security asked the Prime Minister whether they could examine alternative sources of funding. The Prime Minister asked them to do that. I expect that the Prime Minister will make an announcement appropriately in due course. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The National Training Council is a tripartite body responsible to the Minister for Productivity and charged with the task of advising him on the Commonwealth Government's manpower training policies, priorities and programs. 
In its efforts to improve training at all occupational levels and in all sectors of industry and commerce, the Council has actively sought the close co-operation of employer, trade union and industry bodies, and other appropriate bodies and authorities in the formation, within each industry, of tripartite industry training committees. These committees have the responsibility of assessing the manpower training requirements and problems of their respective industries, of developing proposals to overcome them and for improving training generally. Industry Training Committees have been established in15 separate industries and the establishment of committees in a further 2 industries is in progress. 
To date, 3 committees have been established in what can be broadly described as primary industry, namely, dairy processing, timber, and wool producing. Negotiations are in progress to establish a training committee for the fishing industry. 
Information about the activities of the Dairy Processing, Timber, and Wool Producing Industry Training Committees relevant to the questions raised is as follows: 
National Dairy Processing Industry Training Committee 
A Manpower Training Needs of the Dairy Processing Industry was undertaken by the Committee during August to December 1975. The survey covered 248 registered dairy factories and support establishments. The Report was launched in August 1976. 
Deficiences highlighted by the survey reports related mainly to the need for in-service training for employees to enable the development of higher standards of quality, marketing and product presentation. It was noted that technicial training was better provided in the industry than nontechnical training, particularly human relations and management type training. 
A Series of recommendations was made to overcome these deficiencies. These included the need to set up State Industry Training Committees, the promotion of training consciousness in the industry, the training of instructors and development of industry training resources, updating recruitment material improving external training facilities, encouraging understanding of the importance of job enrichment, the development of human relations skills at management levels and the appointment of a full-time Manpower Development Officer for the industry. 
Action on the implementation of these recommendations is now proceeding. 
National Timber Industry Training Committee 
The National Timber Industry Training Committee conducted a survey during November 1973- April 1974 to identify the training needs of the industry and the manner in which training should be carried out. The results of the survey were published in 1975 under the title 'Manpower Training Needs of the Timber Industry '. 
Deficiencies in training requirements in the Timber Industry were highlighted by the survey. For example, difficulties were experienced in recruiting for all job groups, but most particularly in the categories of saw doctoring, wood-machining, sawyer-banding. 
Four out of every five firms interviewed felt that the industry was not attracting enough young people. The survey showed a need for a marked increase in the number of apprenticeships offered to maintain the required number of tradesmen in most areas. 
As a result of recommendations made by the Committee, these problems are now being dealt with. In particular, the Committee has placed emphasis on the employment of manpower development officers within the industry with the result that the industry is now developing a cadre of training specialists able to achieve improvements in training. Various apprenticeships and training programs, including on-the-job training, have been developed for those occupations mentioned above. 
National Wool Producing Industry Training Committee 
The National Wool Producing Industry Training Committee was established in November 1976 and is initially examining the training requirements of shearers. As part of this examination, the Committee is collecting data on employment figures, numbers requiring training each year, and the type of training needed. 
The Committee is also proposing to examine the employment and training needs of other persons employed in the production of wool including wool classers, shed hands, and farm managers. 
See answers 1 and 2 above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The staff employed under the Public Service Act as at 23 March 1977 totalled 4228. In addition there were 5465 persons employed in the government factories under the Supply and Development Act, who do not come within the Divisional structure of the Public Service. 
Public Service Act staffing figures as at 23 March 1 977 are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Productivity draws together various elements of Commonwealth Government activities directed towards productivity improvement. Many factors affect productivity. The following are examples only of current projects in that regard by the Department: 
Its Working Environment Division is concerned with human relations and is doing work in the area of labour/management co-operation. The Division is also concerned with physical working conditions such as lighting, ventilation, noise and general workplace design. The Division is closely linked with the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia and Productivity Groups. 
The National Materials Handling Bureau is a communication bridge between sources and users of technology in materials handling, packaging and physical distribution; it is also a source in itself. The Bureau's role is to achieve productivity improvement through wider adoption of better practices in those fields. 
The Patent Office is the repository of technical information contained in Australian and overseas patent specifications. The Department is extending the dissemination of this information as a productivity improvement initiative. 
The Government factories are the repository of high technology because of the nature of their functions. There is technology transfer between the factories and industry. A group with experience gained in providing an industrial engineering service to the Government factories also provides advice to industry as requested. 
The Government's industrial research and develop- ' ment grants scheme is a responsibility of the Productivity portfolio. 
The Department is responsible for the Government's contribution to industrial design promotion. 
The Assistance to Inventors Scheme is managed by the Department. 
Interfirm comparison studies are prepard for firms in the manufacturing and tertiary sectors. 
Various Information Services are provided- for example the Australian Manufacturing Technology Information Service (AMTIS); Patent Information Service: Occupational Safety and Health Information Services; and General Productivity Information Services. 
Industrial training is a responsibility of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in conjunction with the Minister for Productivity. 
The Department co-operates with other bodies in fostering productivity improvement- for example the Standards Association of Australia and the Australian Organisation for Quality Control. 
In the broad economic sense, productivity is determined by the ratio between output and the total input of factors required for the production of goods and services. In international practice, the measure of productivity generally used is output per unit of labour input. 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics derives an annual measure of national productivity by calculating the ratio of gross domestic product (at constant prices) to the number of persons in the labour force. On the basis of these data, yeartoyear variations can be measured and the percentage increase or decrease deduced. In this way, it is possible to indicate the annual rate of productivity change in the national economy. 
For a more detailed explanation of output and input components I refer the honourable member to the ' Report of the Working Party on the Measurement of Labour Productivity' (Department of Employment and Industrial Relations 1975). 
It was not envisaged by the Government that the mere establishment of the Department would produce short-term improvements in productivity. The Department's role is essentially a long-term one and its contribution to productivity improvement must be judged accordingly. 
-I have not seen this morning's report but there certainly is a strong tendency for people in the media to equate worker participation with worker directors. The question of worker directors has been examined in a number of countries. Germany has had a system of dual boards, one being a policy board and one being an administrative supervisory board. There is, of course, great merit in that. To me, the most important thing in the area of worker participation is that there be a system of good communication. If individual management and labour believe they can achieve that by having worker directors, so be it. I have always been of the view that there ought to be industrial relations directors in all Australian companies. If there are boards with legal experts, financial experts and marketing experts and so forth, all of whom are directors, there ought not to be a personnel manager, there ought to be a personnel director because people are the most important asset of a company. That would go a long way towards improving communications and a long way towards having something resembling worker participation. I also believe that many companies ought to explore the idea of works councils and works committees. This would improve shop floor communication with the board and senior management. 
It is areas like that which the Government wishes to encourage individual management and unions to examine, rather than to adopt some symbolic notion of putting in a worker director when in fact that does not, of itself, improve communications between labour and management. I understand that the Australian Labor Party in New South Wales and South Australia has a policy of appointing worker directors. It is our view that this would not improve the communications between labour and management as such; in fact it could assist management in the sense that some members of the unions might understand better the problems of management. It would not necessarily improve communications between management and the shop floor, if the worker directors viewed their jobs as directors seriously and recognised that there were certain things they knew which they could not immediately tell the shop floor. If, in fact, they did then tell the shop floor immediately, that might prejudice a number of sensible policy decisions of the company. That could only be disruptive and would not improve things. 
Our view is that management and labour ought to explore together and agree together on the system which they want to adopt to improve communications. There is no point in management deciding on something and saying that it sounds good and then trying to impose it. There is certainly no point in governments trying to impose it. My understanding is that even in the European Economic Community, the draft resolution which led to the establishment of the Bullock Committee in the United Kingdom has now been withdrawn and the EEC does not intend to proceed with the idea of worker directors. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  has just finished a most unusual speech- an unusual speech for him because he is known to do his homework and he is known to produce specific examples, although one might not always agree with them. On this occasion he has made a series of generalisations and a series of assertions. It was what one might have called a sob story if there had been a story. He said that he was expressly not bringing to the House any specific examples; yet he claimed that specific examples existed. One would have thought that this would have been an ideal opportunity for him to bring them to the House. 
The Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters  (Mr Street),  whom I am representing at the moment, has informed me that he is not aware of any specific matters that have not been reviewed, monitored and dealt with. The 2 matters mentioned- those concerning the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security- have been attended to. Public announcements have been made. The situation has been rectified. Those matters are still being monitored and reviewed, to some extent at the behest of the Public Service unions concerned. But in all other respects the Public Service unions concerned have not made complaints. This afternoon we have heard for the first time certain allegations being made, but no facts have been produced to back them up. 
I think it would be appropriate to go back to taws; that is, to the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of 9 February 1976, which was shortly after an examination had been made of the position of Public Service numbers. I will not read all of the statement to the House; I will read portions of it. The first 3 paragraphs are particularly important. The Prime Minister said: 
As a result of recommendations made to me by the PublicService Board, by the Treasury and by my own Department, further revised staff ceilings have been approved for the Public Service and for statutory authorities financed wholly or partly from the Budget. 
These ceilings have been set taking fully into account the services that must be supplied to the Australian public. 
They represent staff levels which the 3 departments believe to be appropriate in the light of decisions so far taken by the Government for the efficient and economic performance of the functions of the Commonwealth. 
It is important to recognise that that is the framework within which the staff ceilings were imposed. The words 'the efficient and economic performance of the functions of the Commonwealth' are of paramount importance to this Government. No one is more concerned about the efficiency of the Public Service than is this Government. We do not accept anything that has been said here so far this afternoon as an indication that the Public Service is other than efficient in the circumstances in which it is operating. It is important that we examine also a statement that appeared on page 2 of that Press release by the Prime Minister of 9 February 1976, which reads: 
Employment under the Public Service Act would have increased by 2.8 per cent during the current financial year as a result of a decision by the previous Government. 
Instead there will now be a reduction compared with 1 July last year of 3.3 per cent. This will result in approximately 9800 fewer Public Service Act staff at 30 June than would have been the case if employment had risen by 2.8 per cent. 
It is very important to note that, first of all, this policy was set on the basis of wastage, as has been said by the honourable member for Corio; that it was achieved without retrenchments; and that it was achieved and promulgated with demonstrable public support for cuts in government expenditure. There could not be any doubt in the mind of the public. It is curious that the matter should be raised by the Opposition now, when there still can be little doubt in the mind of the public. The very people for whom the honourable member for Corio has said he is speaking when he tries to bring tears to our eyes are amongst the people who complain to me and other members on this side of the House that already there is developing a dual standard between public servants and non-public servants. Those very people, many of whom are pensioners, who are perhaps slightly inconvenienced on occasions are the people who complain about the discrepancies between their retirement benefits and those of people in the Public Service. 
It has a great deal to do with the work load. Over the years the Public Service unions have obtained such benefits for their members that the honourable member was able to cite the fact that something of the order of 10 per cent, I think it was, of the members of the Public Service were on leave at any one time. 
Those sorts of benefits having been gained, the same Public Service unions then complain that the overheads are such that the Government is not justified in reducing the rate of growth in the Public Service. This bonanza has had to be paid for by someone. In fact it is appropriate that the Public Service rate of growth has been curtailed. 
The honourable member for Corio interjected about the pensioners paying for it. They believe that they are paying for rights of retirement in the Public Service that so exceed those that they themselves are so-called enjoying that - 
-The honourable member knows very well that the predicament concerning someone on the Prime Minister's staff was caused by his classification as a journalist and had nothing to do with ordinary Public Service classifications. I will not be diverted again by the honourable member's interjections on that point. I wish to quote from another part of the lengthy statement by the Prime Minister because it puts in context the subject of this debate. He said: 
Departments and authorities are expected to reach their revised staff ceilings by processes of natural wastage such as retirements and resignations. 
Ministers and the Public Service Board have been asked to keep me informed as to any difficulty encountered in achieving the ceilings by June 30. 
The Public Service Board, the Treasury and my own Department are being asked to review further the revised staff ceilings in the light of additional information coming to hand in the weeks ahead, as the result of the Government's ongoing review of expenditure, and to bring forward suggestions of further reductions in such revised staff ceilings where appropriate. 
This has been done. The review is a continuing one. When information is brought before the Public Service Board or the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, that information is taken into account when the continuing review proceeds. It is strange that the Opposition should bring to this place this afternoon allegations of a broad, sweeping kind and then not substantiate them with specific objections that one would have thought the Opposition would have had if, as it has said, people have raised with it matters which have not been dealt with fairly and properly by the Public Service Board and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. I have given examples already of adjustments which have been made to the staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security. I can only repeat that the matters are being monitored constantly by the Public Service Board which, of course, is an independent statutory body exercising the authority that it  possesses  under the Act and which is not in any way trammelled in the exercise of those duties by decisions of the Government. 
I would like to quote finally from the Prime Minister's Press statement. It said: 
The new levels for Public Service Act and statutory authority employment have been made necessary by the enormous and unreasonable growth of the public sector over the past three years. As evidence of this, at the end of December 1972 the Public Service totalled 134 46S. This was exclusive of the Postmaster-General's Department which had a staff of 1 19 709 at the time and of statutory authorities. 
At June 30 1975 the Public Service had reached 160 177 and would have gone on to reach 164 650 at June 30 this year, if policies which then existed had continued. This is a growth of over 25 700 or 19 per cent in  2Vi  years in employment under the Public Service Act alone. 
The new level for June 30 1976 will be 154 881 in Public Service Act employment and 171 677 for statutory authorities ouside the Public Service Act and wholly or partly dependent on the Budget. 
It is worth observing that the number of persons employed outside the Public Service Act as a result of the 3 years of Labor Administration far exceeds the number of persons employed under the Public Service Act. In fact in the debate raised today we seem to be confined to a debate upon the Public Service itself as opposed to government employment generally. The attitude of the Government has been illustrated by the extracts I have quoted from the Prime Minister's press statement of 9 February 1976. It is worth saying that in the interim the Government has made a number of statements which have carried that policy forth and carried with it the review that the Opposition now complains apparently has not been fairly conducted. This is the first we have heard of that complaint. 
The figure as at 30 June 1977 is expected to be 153 675 compared with the figure at 30 June 1976 of 154 881. In fact the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  confirmed in his Budget Speech last August that the provisional ceilings that had been announced the previous June would stand. But in January of this year the Treasurer was able to say that in fact the ceiling would be 700 fewer than the number he announced in August. It is important to recognise that in making that statement the Treasurer was relying upon the advice of the Public Service Board which said that the objectives of the Government as originally outlined by the Prime Minister could be met. Those objectives were that there had to be government restraint and yet service to the public should not in fact be jeopardised. The Prime 
Minister has made it abundantly clear that ceilings will be reviewed by him when Ministers believe that they require additional manpower in order to perform particular jobs or that additional staff is needed to maintain a reasonable standard of service to the public. It is important to note that the Public Service Board 's advice to the Government is that those government targets can be met and that they can be met without jeopardising the quality of service to the public. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
In the few remaining minutes which I have I wish to repeat the essence of the Government's position, and that is that when we came into government we found a Public Service situation which had expanded beyond all cost justification. From the outset we set out very clearly our position regarding Public Service ceilings and the capacity of Ministers to go to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and have that position reviewed according to needs and according to complaints which had been received from within the departments and the community generally, including Public Service unions. To the extent that there have been complaints, they have been monitored and reviewed by the Public Service Board, by the Prime Minister and by the Government generally. 
We find it curious that today in what is called a matter of public importance we have assertions, generalisations and, as I understand it, a deliberate statement from the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that he did not intend to burden the House with specific examples of matters which, in fact, would have justified the bringing on for discussion of this matter of public importance. We believe that the matter of which the Opposition complains is without justification. We believe that the efficiency of the Public Service has been in no way impaired by the ceilings which have been implemented. We believe that the personal lives of persons employed within the Public Service have not been inconvenienced. In fact, there have not been retrenchments. There has been wastage. There has been no impairment to the service provided to the public. There has been a considerable cost saving to that public. We also believe that within the community there is support for the policies which we have adopted in the setting of limits to the rate of growth which, if the Opposition had its way, apparently would be boundless. 

 Mr SCHOLES (Corio)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No date can be given for the possible publication of a directory of support services for women. Manuscript material which has been prepared has been reviewed by the various interested departments. A factor which has emerged from this review is that there would be continual need for updating the information in any such publication. 
For these and other reasons the proposed publication has been listed, amongst others of a developmental nature, for consideration as part of a long-term welfare services directory program. 
In the short-term a factor which inhibits any immediate prodduction of such a directory is that the manner of provision of welfare and health services by the Commonwealth Government is currently the subject of a major review following the report by the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health. 
It is understood however, that the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations is going ahead with a handbook dealing with aspects of employment for women. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 25 November 1975 the Women's Trade Union Commission and the Queensland Women's Trade Union Committee received grants of $40,000 and $500 respectively from the International Women's Year allocation, to undertake activities which would assist women unionists and would work towards the elimination of discrimination against women in trade unions. 
The Women's Trade Union Commission has since received $22,400 for the 1977 calendar year from the Office of Child Care for a child care needs investigator: this covers salary assistance, rent and administrative expenses. The assistance will be used for a study which considers the need for child care services specifically in relation to working areas rather than residential areas. Consideration is also being given to a submission for further funds to cover recurrent expenditure during 1977-78. 
The Queensland Women's Trade Union Committee has not as yet made a further application for financial assistance. 
The Working Women's Centre in Footscray received $39,000 in June 1976 through the Western Regional Council of the Australian Assistance Program. The grant enabled the purchase of a house, the salary of a co-ordinator and general administrative costs. As there are now no funds available under the Australian Assistance Plan which could be used for this purpose, no further assistance can be provided under this program. 
During International Women 's Year the Federal Government purchased a building in Newcastle which was leased to the Hunter Region Working Women's Group as permanent premises for the Centre. Grants for purchase and renovations came from the Children's Commission, the Hospital and Health Services Commission, and the International Women 's Year appropriation, totalling $ 1 36, 1 77. Before the Centre's child care program began, the Office of Child Care gave salary support for a child care worker. From June 1976 the Office of Child Care has provided $10,973.93 recurrent assistance to the organisation. Support is continuing under the provisions of the Child Care Act. 
In Canberra, a women's union committee has been established, but as yet has not requested financial support for a working women 's centre. 
In Adelaide, a working women's centre has not yet been established. 
In Penh, the W.A. Trades and Labour Council 1WY Women's Committee received $1,500 during IWY for a working women's seminar. As yet, no working women's centre has been established and no requests have been made for further financial support 
Any future applications for working women's centres will be considered for financial assistance in the light of this 
Government's continuing commitment to ensuring equal opportunity for all people in our society and within the limits of available financial resources at the time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Hospitals and Health Services Commission has considered the establishment of an occupational health service for Australian Government employees and delivered a report to the Department of Health in 1 975. 
Discussions are currently in progress between the Department of Health, the Public Service Board and representatives of the Peak Union Councils as to the steps which can be taken to introduce an occupational health service for Australian Government employees taking into consideration the overriding need for economic restraint. 
See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
Yes, I do favour the establishment of mandatory occupational safety and health standards being made applicable to all employees of the Commonwealth Government and Commonwealth statutory authorities. The initiative in that area taken by the honourable member when he was Minister for Labour has been continued. However, the extension of those standards to Commonwealth Government contractors, employees engaged in the Territories and interstate trade and commerce poses jurisdictional questions, but with the co-operation of the State Ministers for Labour, considerable progress is being made in the development of uniform safety, health and welfare legislation. This could resolve the difficulties mentioned above. 
Yes, and this is why the Government has accorded a high priority to work in both these areas. 
I do recall the IAC report quite clearly. I am able to say that in recent months I have had discussions with Hawker de Havilland, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the other peak councils which are concerned. I expect that within the Budget context further consideration will be given to the matter by the Government and that during the Budget session an announcement will be made. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Live-stock Export Charge Bill, the Live-stock Export Charge Collection Bill, the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill, the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Collection Amendment Bill, and the Meat Research Amendment Bill, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 6 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to provide interim funds for the continuation of Commonwealth financial assistance to the States for road works during the first 3 months of 1977-78. The Bill provides for the appropriation of $1 18.75m, that is, one-quarter of the already announced program of Commonwealth assistance for 1977-78 totalling $475m. The legislation currently before the House can most easily be considered by taking the funding aspect separately from the general question of the administration and programming arrangements involved in the operation of the Commonwealth's roads assistance program. 
First of all, as far as the funding aspect is concerned, honourable members will be aware that at the present time financial assistance is provided to the States for road works under the National Roads and Roads Grants Acts. Appropriations under these Acts terminate on 30 June 1977 and new appropriations and legislation will therefore be needed to cover Commonwealth assistance from the beginning of the new financial year. It is the Government's intention to introduce legislation in the Budget sittings to provide for continuation of financial assistance to the States for road works over the 3 years 1977-78 to 1979-80 inclusive. The new road arrangements which we will be proposing from 1 July next onwards do involve a number of significant policy issues. It would in the Government 's view be inappropriate to rush such legislation through the Parliament without the opportunity for proper study of the specific provisions of the legislation by members of both Houses. However, the States will need funds in the early part of the 1977-78 financial year to meet the Commonwealth's share of the costs of the road program. We have decided to introduce the Bill now before the House so as to ensure that the necessary specific purpose funds are available for the States. 
I now turn to the administrative issues. I think honourable members are already aware of the general shape of the arrangements under which our roads assistance program operates. However, I have arranged to have circulated to honourable members background material explaining in some detail the principles on which the scheme is administered. In very general terms, the road arrangements involve approval by the Commonwealth of road programs proposed by the States on which Commonwealth funds are to be used. Programs are submitted for approval in relation to works to be carried out by the States on particular road categories, for example, national highways, rural arterials, local roads and so on. This system ensures that the Commonwealth can identify the uses to which its funds are to be put. Honourable members will be aware that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  makes available to each member of the House- irrespective of party affiliations- details of the programs that affect his electorate. 
Since coming to office we have held extensive discussions with the States, mainly through the Australian Transport Advisory Council, on the arrangements which are to apply in respect of Commonwealth assistance for road works to be carried out by the States in the future. The Bill now before the House contains some general provisions which have the effect of allowing, by the exercise of ministerial discretion, the proposed arrangements to operate virtually as if the legislation to be introduced in the Budget sittings had, in fact, been passed. As indicated, the States themselves are already aware of what is proposed with regard to future roads assistance programs. They have been assured, and I now give the House the Government's assurance, that the interim arrangements will be administered in accordance with the spirit of the proposed 3-year legislation. 
I now propose to deal in a little more detail with the Bill itself. Clauses 1 and 2 provide the usual details with regard to title and date of commencement of the Bill. Clause 3 sets out a number of definitions which are needed in order to limit the ways which Commonwealth funds may be used in relation to road works. I would also draw honourable members' attention to sub-clause 3 of clause 3 which has the effect of allowing pay-roll tax charged by the States to be treated as an eligible item of expenditure from Commonwealth grants. This is in line with assurances given to State governments. Clause 4 provides the Minister with discretionary powers to approve road works. The purpose of this clause is to ensure that the Commonwealth is aware in advance of the projects on which Commonwealth funds are to be used. As already indicated to the 
House, this power will be exercised strictly in accordance with the arrangements discussed in detail with State administrations. It will be up to the State governments to propose road programs. 
Clauses 5 and 6 are essentially to permit funds to be paid to and used by the States in accordance with their entitlement to Commonwealth funds as specified in the schedule. Each State already knows its entitlement of grants for the full year 1977-78. In the first 3 months of the year each State will be entitled to exactly onequarter of its proposed full year allocation. The amounts for each State in this period are: 

<graphic href="105131197705310_57_0.jpg"></graphic>

Honourable members will note that clause 6 also allows certain conditions to be attached to these payments. This has been done to ensure that policy objectives with regard to use of these funds are in fact adhered to. I would again stress that the Bill covers only a limited period and specifies the level of funds which may be used during this interim period. The Bill will be subsumed by the legislation to be introduced in the Budget sittings. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
in reply- I would like to make a couple of comments in reply to the remarks made by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  Firstly, I would like to repeat to the House the assurance that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will use the discretion specifically given to him in this Bill. The assurance to be given is that the spirit of the Federal-State agreement will be abided by. That has been made clear to the States. It has been made clear to the House in the second reading speech on the Bill and I repeat it once again. 
I agree with the point made by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  when he said that the Opposition this evening has certainly been devoid of any alternative policy. I might observe that attacks on the Minister for Transport certainly are no substitute for a policy. Likewise, we know it is a fact of life that in Federal-State negotiations on any subject there is a fair amount of rhetoric from the States for their own political reasons as they perceive them. Like the honourable member for Shortland, I wish this were not so. We certainly would like to see more harmonious discussion between the Federal and State goverments. But unlike the honourable member, I would not rise and repeat those attacks as a substitute for a policy because the inescapable fact is that the States have agreed to the substance of the matters contained in this legislation and those foreshadowed in the legislation to be introduced in the Budget session. 
The honourable member for Shortland said that the Government had been guilty of haste in introducing this Bill. He said that the Bill itself was hastily drawn and introduced and, in fact, that the Government had delayed. Since coming to office, the Government has given its full attention in this area of administration to discussions with the States through the Australian Transport Advisory Council. In approaching those discussions, we have adopted the spirit of federalism which we have advocated. In accordance with that spirit of federalism, the States have been given a full opportunity to communicate between themselves and to come back to further meetings. The honourable member said that the Parliament had not been given an opportunity to discuss this Bill, except in some haste. I make it clear again that this is interim legislation and that the Parliament will be given ample opportunity to discuss the matters in full when the further legislation is introduced in the Budget session. 
The honourable member for Shortland also commented on the triennium discussions and said that they were well advanced. He then went on to make some comments about the desirability of having an integrated transport budget. He raised the kinds of complex questions which have been occupying all 7 governments of Australia in this area. Because they are complex problems it is hopelessly optimistic to say that they could have been resolved in the last 18 months or that they could be resolved quickly in the next triennium. It is for this reason that the new legislation when it is introduced will incorporate the wishes of the States as well as the Federal Government as far as their thinking has now gone. If it is the wish of the States that the legislation contain some specific provisions or strategy planning, that can be achieved. If not, we must look to another day for that amount of progress to be made. 
In respect of the comments concerning the meetings of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, allocations were announced following those meetings but the allocations were in the nature of proposals. The States were advised that they were proposals and were given the opportunity to comment on the fact that these were proposals for consideration by all governments and ultimately by the Federal Government in respect of federal funds. The Minister for Transport did accept many of the comments that were made in respect of the proposed allocations. The honourable member for Shortland commented on a Press release in respect of an ATAC meeting. Again, the Press release contained a reference to the proposed allocation of $475m for 1977-78 to road categories in each State. State Ministers were advised by letter handed to them at the same time as the Press release was made that these were proposals for discussion. 
-That was not the honourable member's comment.  His  comment was that there was something mysterious and autocratic and mischievous about the nature of this Press release. In fact the Press release was combined with the letters which were given to the Ministers. The Commonwealth contribution in the total for the triennium 1974-75 to 1976-77 was $ 1,233m, and the Commonwealth grant in real terms for the 3 years 1977-78 to 1979-80 will be $ 1,425m. I draw attention to the Press statement and to the second reading speech, to which the honourable member referred, to show that it is the Government's intention to maintain this amount in real terms, at least over that triennium. 
In respect of the comments by the honourable member for Shortland about the State's funds for roads, the Commonwealth's share of the total roads expenditure increased from about 32 per cent to approximately 36 per cent between 1970 and 1975. The States' share during the same period decreased from about 33.5 per cent in 1970 to 30.3 per cent in 1975. It is an insupportable argument to say that there has been a squeeze on the States in respect of the Federal contribution. That is demonstrably not so. The total funds from the Commonwealth in the 1974-1977 triennium amounted to $ 1,233m, as I have said. Contrary to what has been said by the Opposition, the States have welcomed the changes introduced by the Government since it returned to office. One very important point to be made, and it supports the point made by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu),  is that almost immediately after coming into office this Government, through the Minister for Transport, dropped the demand of the previous Government that the Commonwealth should approve the expenditure in respect of all urban arterial programs. The previous Government, with its centralist policy, insisted on approving the urban arterial programs, whether they were to be funded from State funds or from Commonwealth funds. In fact, as part of its federalism policy, the present Government dropped that requirement, and the situation now is that the Commonwealth, in the spirit of co-operative federalism, simply wants to know where the States wish to spend Federal money. That is the nature and spirit of the legislation which has been introduced, and of the legislation which will be introduced for the next triennium in the Budget session. 
Reference was made by the honourable member for Shortland to the Bureau of Roads. I should again stress to him that the Bureau is an advisory body. It is only one of many advisory bodies to government It is the Government which has to decide ultimately on the resource allocation. The Bureau is not asked to consider comparisons between transportation, education, health, welfare and other priorities of government. It is up to the Government to assess all of the advice it gets and to make its own decision. While it is all right for the shadow Minister for Transport to say that transport never gets enough, so too do shadow Ministers for all of the other spheres of government make the same claim. In the end, of course, it is the Government which has to be accountable for the money it raises and the money it spends. 
In conclusion, I should like to reiterate that the Government does intend to introduce legislation during the Budget sittings which will provide section 96 grants- non-repayable grants- for road works over the 3 years from 1977-78 to 1979-80. The Government has decided that the Commonwealth's appropriations in respect of those road works will be maintained at a real level at least equal to the $475m which it has already been announced will be made available for the financial year 1977-78. It is important to recognise that this represents a very substantial commitment in the light of the extremely difficult budgetary problems which the Commonwealth Government has faced since returning to office. Commonwealth road funds are available for use by the States on a number of road categories. The Commonwealth Government provides substantial assistance to the declared national highway system, as well as assisting with the rural and urban road networks. State Ministers are well aware, as the Opposition is aware, of how the funds are to be allocated within each State to particular categories in 1977-78. Perhaps I should add that the proposed legislation will certainly provide for transfers of funds between road categories, for example, in those instances where demonstrated State priorities prove to be overriding considerations. I should reiterate and emphasise that local government road needs will continue to be an area of major interest for the Commonwealth Government, and certainly there will not be any backing off from these priorities. 
As I have said, legislation will be introduced in the Budget sittings for an appropriation of funds for 3 years, and under that legislation the States will be required to fund a quota of roads expenditure from their own resources. One can only repeat that the funding of roads is a responsibility of all 3 arms of government. The State quota is a minimum amount, as far as we are concerned. The Commonwealth Government sees no reason why State governments should not exceed the quota if they wish. If many of them believe all of the rhetoric which they espouse, then they certainly would exceed their quotas. It is of course a matter for the States to work out their own priorities, in the same way as we must balance transportation priorities with other priorities in the federal sphere. This is interim legislation. It is to ensure that the funds are available to the States for the first 3 months of the next financial year. It will certainly meet the cost of the Commonwealth's contribution to road programs in Australia. It has been welcomed by the States, and I believe that the Opposition has shown in this House an absence of any alternative POliCY with regard to this important legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Administrator recommending appropriation announced. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have been informed that the Queensland Department of Health informed the Hospitals and Health Services Commission by letter of 20 July 1976 that women's refuges in Brisbane and Townsville would be excluded from consideration when financial allocations under the Community Health Program were determined. 
The details of correspondence between a Premier and Prime Minister are regarded as confidential. 'Darwin Trader': Turnaround Times (Question No. 672) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 424 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  24 May 1977, page 1778). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) See the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 423 (House of Representatives  Hansard.  24 May 1977, page 1778). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Early last year, I wrote to the Prime Minister, Treasurer and Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, who are responsible for the provision of funds to the groups referred to by the honourable member, seeking their views on a proposal to use Qantas services wherever practicable. 
Each indicated in reply that, while they and their Departments would do whatever is reasonable to encourage Australian sporting teams to travel by Qantas, they would, nevertheless, not agree as a matter of general principle to restrict the freedom of choice of such organisations. I think it is important to note that where assistance is granted, most organisations such as sporting teams receive a 50 per cent travel subsidy from the Government, with the rest of the cost of travel being provided out of the organisation 's own funds. 
I fully support my colleagues ' views on this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Excursion fares are available to Australians travelling by air to more than 20 points within continental Europe. The fares are: 
2 1 / 1 80 day excursion fare Australia-Europe. 
b ) one-way excursion fare Australia-Europe. 
Excursion fares are also available for Europeans travelling to Australia from these points in Europe. The fares from European points are not in every case the same as the reciprocal tares from Australian points. Some are higher and some are lower. This is due to the differences in currency levels between Australia and the various European countries. 
and (4) No. Reduced fares are in fact available to other countries in Europe, including Switzerland and the Scandinavian countries. These special reduced fares are based on the excursion fare agreed with the European countries with which Australia nas concluded air services agreements. Normally Australia/Europe fares are established after consideration of recommendations by IATA, but for some years now promotional fares on this route have not been covered by an LATA agreement. 
In this situation it is only feasible to reach agreement on excursion fares with those European countries whose airlines operate scheduled services to Australia. Nevertheless, these special excursion fares are combinable with normal fares in Europe, so that a special reduced fare is available between Australia and any other point in Europe, including of course Copenhagen, Stockholm and Geneva. 
For economic reasons the price of the special reduced fares to Switzerland and Scandinavia must reflect the situation that neither area is linked on direct services with Australia. Accordingly, because the passenger has to travel to Copenhagen, Stockholm or Geneva on a combination of services involving a change of aircraft in another country, the cost to the airlines servicing Australia of providing travel to either country is greater than the cost of providing carriage to those European countries that are directly linked on air services with Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
$US 17,500.00. 
The circumstances surrounding Air New Zealand's fine involved contraventions against LATA regulations concerning "contra-deals". The Department has recently reviewed its filing requirements relating to "contra-deals" and will shortly be advising the international airline industry of the revised filing requirements. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The New South Wales Government submitted a proposal for electrification work between Gosford and Newcastle in 1975-76 estimated to cost $32.22m. An economic evaluation was provided and when reviewed by the Bureau of Transport Economics produced a benefit/cost ratio of 1 .03 at 7 per cent discounting and 0.79 when discounted at 10 per cent. No provision was made by the previous Government in its 1 975-76 Budget for new projects. 
Yes. The provision of funds for the purposes of the Urban Public Transport Agreement will be determined in the overall budgetary context and I will advise the State Minister accordingly. 
I am not prepared to speculate on the outcome of Budget deliberations at this dme. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
International airlines do not have entitlements to Australian domestic passenger traffic. 
Incident at Johannesburg Airport  (Question No. 802) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
) One vessel is being built in Germany with a capacity of 1 38 000 tonnes deadweight. 
It is not the practice to divulge confidential information concerning the line's commercial operations. 
Yes. 
It is necessary to take commercial considerations into account in making decisions on orders for new tonnage. For example, no Japanese yard was able to deliver the vessel currently under construction in Germany by the specified delivery date. There are no proposals under consideration for the construction of further large bulk carriers for Australian National Line use in the Japan ore trade. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The first and economy single fares to the cities, quoted in Australian dollars, are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Qantas and foreign international airlines are permitted to carry passengers between Australian capital cities provided that section of a journey forms part of an international ticket. Whether this is in fact in competition with the domestic carriers is a matter of interpretation. 
Estimates given by an Australian domestic carrier in evidence to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism estimated this traffic to be worth in the order of $30 m annually to the domestic carriers. 
The Australian domestic carriers certainly consider this to be so. The Department of Transport has commenced a study of all aspects of this question. 
International Airlines: Competition with Domestic Carriers (Question No. 925) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Under normal circumstances, no. 
Special circumstances are approved personally by the Minister for Transport from time to time whereby domestic passengers can in fact purchase tickets on international flights within Australia. Such circumstances include members of Federal Parliament travelling on urgent business where no suitable domestic service is available and officers of the Crown escorting visiting dignitaries on the Australian sectors of their arrival in or departure from Australia. 
International airlines are not permitted to offer this service. Arrangements are made with the appropriate airline in respect of a particular service at the time of travel following specific approval from the Minister for Transport. 
Less than 30. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
1) In the months of April and May, Qantas carried 5618 Advance Purchase Excursion Fare (APEF) passengers out of Australia and 2070 into Australia. The number of bookings currently held by Qantas for the first year of operation is 24 086 out of Australia and 26 566 into Australia. 
Precise figures are not available for the other airlines offering the APEF fares, but it is believed that these airlines hold a total of approximately 30 000 bookings for travel from Australia. 
The APEF fares operate from Britain to Australia for residents of the United Kingdom only. The Australian authorities have offered to European authorities similar fares arrangements to and from European destinations but arrangements have not been finalised. 
It is not possible to calculate the precise number of British citizens who have arrived in Australia since the introduction of the APEF fares. However, it is estimated that approximately 8000 British citizens have arrived in Australia during the months of April and May. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
It is not possible to verify individual fitness accounts of ozone irritation in United States aircraft but the United States Federal Aviation Administration has acknowledged that cases have been identified. Significant concentrations of ozone in the atmosphere occur normally above 40 000 feet, but the lower limit of such concentrations fluctuates with season and perhaps other factors. It is lowest in high latitudes in the northern hemisphere at this time of the year. Airline aircraft in this country do not normally operate above 40 000 feet. 
The Depanment of Transport has not carried out any studies on the effect of ozone on long distance air travellers. However, it is in contact with the Federal Aviation Administration and the American aircraft manufacturers and is monitoring the situation. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes- two such failures have been reported. The first occurred after take-off from Nowra on 20 October 1976 and the second en route Essendon to Sydney on 8 February 1977. 
Normal incident and defect investigation procedures were followed in each case including metallurgical examination of failed parts. 
The first failure involved a detached cylinder due to failure of hold down studs and the second resulted from a broken connecting rod due to galling of the bearing bore. 
The second incident involved reported malfunctioning of both engines of the aircraft and led to an emergency night landing at Goulburn. Investigation has so far confirmed one engine as mechanically defective. The reason for the reported malfunction of the other engine is still under investigation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Thursday, 12 May 1977. 
Southbank Aviation. 
Cessna Citation. Standard configuration six passengers. 
(e) (f) The flight was approved as a private flight. No information concerning the cost of the flight or the names of the passengers on board was sought by the Department as it was to be conducted as a private flight. 
and (4) I am aware that there has been considerable media comment concerning  Mr Wran's  trip. The flight was approved under the terms of Air Navigation Regulation 199AA- 'An aircraft other than an aircraft engaged in a regular public transport operation shall not  fly  between a place in Australian territory and a place outside Australian territory or between places outside Australian territory except with the express approval of the Secretary  the Secretary may gram the approval subject to compliance with such instructions and conditions as he considers necessary or desirable in relation to that flight '. 
No. So long as the flight complies with the terms of approval. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Domestic passengers are permitted to be carried between Australian cities in certain circumstances by foreign airlines in accordance with the personal direction of the Minister for Transport. Examples of instances where such direction has been given include members of Federal Parliament travelling on urgent business where suitable domestic services are not available and officers of the Crown escorting visiting foreign dignitaries over route sectors within Australia. 
Where these instances have occurred they have usually involved travel between Melbourne or Sydney and Darwin and Perth. Airlines involved are usually Qantas, British Airways or Air India. 
I would add that international carriers are permitted to carry international passengers between Australian cities where the route sector concerned forms part of a passenger's international journey. The Australian domestic operators have stated they consider that such carriage is in competition with their own operations. Whether this is so is a matter of interpretation. The Department of Transport has recently instituted an enquiry into all aspects of this question. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No firm decision has been made by the Australian National Railways to establish rail/road facilities at Manguri on the Tarcoola to Alice Springs railway for handling through traffic. However, normal facilities are to be provided at Manguri to handle local traffic from the surrounding areas, particularly Coober Pedy. 
There are no plans in hand regarding changes to existing arrangements for continued operations of the Marree to Alice Springs section of the Central Australia Railway. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In the case of Qantas and TAA: yes, subject to my approval. In the case of other airlines: yes, subject to my approval of the acquisition of the aircraft by the purchaser if the provisions of the Airlines Equipment Act are attracted. 
Air Nauru, Nauru, Air Niugini, Papua New Guinea, British Caledonian Airways Ltd, U.K., Commercial Airways Ltd, South Africa, Compania Interamericana ExportImport, U.S.A. 
Boeing 707-338C-2 aircraft, $A5,000,000 and $A4,325,000 respectively. 
Boeing 727-100 series-3 aircraft, $US3,550,000, $US 1 , 1 90,2 1 0 and $A 1 ,320,000 respectively. 
Fokker F27-200 series-1 aircraft, $A290,000; 4 aircraft, $A 1,638,000 (individual amounts not available). 
The amounts shown, except for the inclusive amount shown for the four Fokker F27-200 series aircraft above are the amounts stated as the value of the aircraft on Export Permit applications. 
1 Boeing 747-238B; 2 Boeing 727-200 series; 6 Fokker F27-500 series; 1 Sikorsky S.61 helicopter. 
Australian National Railways: House rents (Question No. 964) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Average rentals charged to employees occupying ANR houses at line locations is $4.50 per week and maximum charges approximately $6 per week. ANR advise that maintenance costs alone on each of these houses averages $ 1 1 00 per annum or approximately $2 1 per week. 
ANR house rentals at Port Augusta vary up to a maximum of approximately $23 per week. This compares with rentals for new tenants of between $29 and $34 per week charged by the South Australian Housing Trust in Port 
Augusta. This lower rental represents a form of subsidy offered by ANR as a means of attracting staff to Port Augusta. 
Defence Central Complex: Wearing of Uniform by Personnel (Question No. 966) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An area of land in the vicinity of Galston has been included in one of the four Zones currently being investigated as a possible location for a second major airport in the Sydney region. The basis of this inclusion is that the Commonwealth/State Committee conducting the investigation could find insufficient technical grounds presently available for the exclusion of this area as compared with other areas in the four Zones. It is stressed that the current study is very comprehensive and will look at the desirability of developing new airport facilities in comparison with the desirability of developing existing facilities taking into account the full range of social, environmental, technical and economic factors. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Payments to the States under each category of the  National Roads Act  1974, the  Road Grants Act  1974, and the  Transport (Planning and Research) Act  1 974 are outlined in the following tables. The tables incorporate transfers between categories and between years within Acts, and between Acts. The tables also take account of supplementary amounts provided to the States under the  Roads Acts Amendments Act  1976, the  Roads Acts Amendment Act (No. 2)  1976, and the  Roads Act Amendment Bill  1977. As allocations to the States under the Amendment Acts have been subject to variation under the principal Acts, it is not possible to provide information in relation to the actual expenditure per year for the supplementary amounts (see attached tables). 
As the honourable member will appreciate, both the National Roads Act and the Transport (Planning and Research) Act provide that, subject to commitments being entered into prior to 30 June, a State may expend funds provided for a financial year for a period of up to six months after completion of the financial year. The Roads Grants Act provides for expenditure to be incurred in the six months following the end of the year from funds set aside for that purpose before the expiry of the financial year. 
Given these provisions of the legislation I am not in a position to advise the honourable member of what amounts are expected to remain unexpended as at 30 June 1977. 
However, I have no reason to expect that the States, by making use of set aside and commitment provisions, will nol be able to expend all their allocations by 3 1 December 1 977. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to question No. 1003 
-The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable gentleman to the reply provided by the Prime Minister to question No. 1 003 on 2 June 1977. 1982 Commonwealth Games: Brisbane (Question No. 1030) 
It is disappointing to think that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  so timed the introduction of what he said were constructive ideas that he waited until he was due to finish speaking. We had a concentration on political point scoring and short term thinking. I was reminded of some remarks made to me by my old friend the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  when I was revelling in the luxury of being in opposition and being able to score political points at the drop of a hat without thinking through constructive alternatives and without putting myself in the position of the Government and saying: 'These are the difficulties. These are the long term causes. These will be the long term remedies'. My dear old friend whose electorate joins mine but whom I had known for a while before looked at me gravely and tried to point out that I was wrong in some of the things I said in order to try to gain a few points for the Opposition on a matter which had some popular public appeal. 
Reflecting on it the honourable member for Melbourne Ports was right. The honourable member for Adelaide has fallen into the same trap today. He said that our policies are political and not economic. I trust that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who follows him at least will not accuse us of making political decisions to try to win some support and ignoring the economics of the situation. It is facile to talk of the Fraser Government policies taking toll. That was the expression used by the honourable member for Adelaide. It is facile to start measuring the impact of unemployment from December 1976. It is beyond any doubt that if action to arrest inflation had not been taken when this Government came to office there would be many more unemployed now and the Opposition would rightly be discussing a matter of public importance because of the inflationary consequences. 
The Government has set out to curb inflation. The evidence last night- this is the only reference I shall make to the Budget-showed that it has lived up to its own aims and expectations. More will be said about that but it is important to recognise that if the action taken in the course of our economic strategy had not been taken in last night's Budget, last year's Budget and in the measures taken as soon as the Government came to office, more people would be unemployed now, there would be more hidden unemployment and more structural problems of unemployment. The honourable member for Adelaide also spoke about fluctuations in our economy. It was in distinct recognition of the fact that there are some fluctuations and structural problems that my own Department, the Department of Productivity, was created. It was created by the Government as an important initiative to begin coping with long term problems. It is a shame that we have a repetition of another cheap political point-scoring debate which concentrated so much on the short term that the honourable member for Adelaide had to be pulled up several times for concentrating on last night's Budget. No attention was given to the long term, to the causes and to the solutions. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer),  will be elaborating on a number of measures which have already been taken by this Government in respect of unemployment in the short term. I shall reiterate these manpower measures because they have been the subject of debate many times. The Government is proud of the endeavours it has taken. It acknowledges that there is  still  an unacceptably high level of unemployment. There is no one in this House who would take any joy from the levels of unemployment. To say that we have adopted political policies designed to achieve them is not worthy of the honourable member for Adelaide. The upgrading of the Commonwealth Employment Service is a matter which has been presented to this House and to the public by my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  In 1976-77 the Commonwealth Employment Service placed 467 000 people in employment. The expansion of the National Employment and Training program has been the subject of debate in this House. Despite the early criticism and scepticism, that program has been a resounding success. The Special Youth Employment Training program again has been a most important means of trying to bring in young persons for special training programs. The education program for unemployed youth is another initiative in the case of some disadvantaged youths. Increased assistance for apprenticeship training has also been the subject of debate in this House, including the training in government factories administered by my Department. 
As the honourable member for Adelaide said in respect of the Community Youth Support scheme, all these measures can be said to be small, but each of them helps individual people in need. Each of them contributes to a solution of our unemployment problems, not in the sense of making work but in the sense of giving people satisfying and sustainable employment in the years ahead. In addition to those programs there is the Relocation Assistance scheme, which my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations has presented to this House. It is a sad commentary, not only on this House but also on our society generally, that it is only when we get to unacceptable levels of unemployment that we begin to discuss the subject seriously. I do not think there is anyone in this House or anyone who understands the working of our economy who seriously expects that unemployment which now worries us all can be banished overnight, no matter how determined we are that it should be. 
I think it is worth summarising the reasons for the existing levels of unemployment. Firstly, they relate to the underlying structural changes in the economy to which the honourable member for Adelaide referred and to which we all, or anyone in this House interested in economics, have referred from time to time. They certainly relate to poor domestic economic management, especially during 1973 and 1974, and to unfavourable international trading patterns over a similar period. It is important that we get those things into perspective. The record of performance, and the figures were produced last night, shows that Australia has returned to sound domestic economic management. There certainly are some promising signs of an improvement in our international trade position. However, the underlying structural problems remain and this is acknowledged by the Government. It was acknowledged by the Government when it created the Department of Productivity. 
One salient fact that needs to be recognised when we talk about fluctuations in the economy, even when we have soundly based economic management and favourable trade patterns, is that we need to eliminate the structural problems and to harmonise the rate of technological change with the rate of retraining in order to try to minimise the peaks and troughs of the employment situation in future. By doing so we can harness advantages that come our way through favourable economic trade patterns and can cushion ourselves against the worst effects of adverse trade patterns, or, heaven preserve us, any return to management such as that of the Labor Government of 1 973 and 1 974. 
The problem of structural change has emerged gradually and will be resolved only gradually. This Government is endeavouring to tackle that situation. It certainly has rejected the notion of make-work programs. The honourable member for Adelaide did not mention the fact that in our federal structure we have seven governments. We have State governments, each of which has managed to show a healthy surplus and each of which has a responsibility in respect of capital works programs. Some of those capital works programs can employ people. It is very much the responsibility of particular State governments that they maintain their level of capital spending in those areas. In many cases they ought to do it at the expense of some of their current account expenditure. We will not correct the unemployment situation by short term make-work programs, as I have said. The fact that such suggestions are still implicit in matters of public importance raised by the Opposition in this House indicates a continuing preoccupation with the short term. I am sure we will all listen with interest to what the honourable member for Oxley has to say about any long term ideas. They certainly were not forthcoming from the mover of this motion. 
Everyone in the community, people on both sides of the House, people in the bureaucracy, people in management and the trade unions, and people elsewhere must bear responsibility for failing to see the underlying structural changes that were going on within industry. They were most dramatically exposed by the mismanagement of 1973 and 1974. That mismanagement graphically highlighted the magnitude of the problem we now face. It cannot be corrected overnight and it would be aggravated if we were not to embark upon a successful program of reducing inflation. 
It is important that we recognise that the labour force was increasing in the period of great growth, the 1 950s and the 1 960s, at a very strong rate. It is not growing at a very strong rate now. At that time there was perpetual discussion about immigration and whether the level of immigration placed too many demands upon our capacity to provide goods and services. Now the one variable we have, that of immigration has in fact been discounted by the previous administration. Our level of immigration has slowed to the point where we have no growth in the labour force and we now have built into it certain immobility and certain structural difficulties associated with relocating people and retraining people at the same time in order to fill some of our requirements in a rational way. 
I believe that the Green Paper on immigration and population is worthy of considerable nonparty political discussion. The Government requires constructive ideas from the community and from the Opposition on the long term matters raised in that paper. The long term matters in respect of structural unemployment of which we are all aware deserve dispassionate, sensible and mature consideration, not short term political point scoring in debates of this nature. The Opposition would do the community much more service by addressing itself to long term matters. Had it done so, during its term in government as well as in opposition, we would have had a much better employment picture than we have now. 
There are complex issues, not the least of which are a shortage of skills and obstacles in the way of training people to meet those skills. In this regard the trade unions have an obligation to overcome some of their previous prejudices about adult training, especially in some of the metal trades areas where there is a screaming shortage of skills. We now have the situation that if a person is not trained by the age of 23 to take up a particular trade he cannot take it up at all. We are so conscious these days of removing discrimination in employment that the community, and certainly the trade union movement, should give more attention to this aspect. 
I am very concerned because there are indications that the allocation and mobility of labour is becoming less flexible, as I have said before. In general a rapidly growing labour force tends to e more mobile because the new entrants, especially if they are migrants, can be directed more readily towards the faster growing sectors. 
In the future, with less scope for transfers from rural areas and, possibly, less immigration, there could well be problems of that nature in seeking to ensure a balanced supply of the different labour skills required. It is quite clear that increases in productive investment will be required to offset the shortages of many labour skills and to provide additional employment opportunities in other areas. As I have said, in order to see that these shortages are offset a great deal must be done to formulate future training policies. It is my Department which bears the principal responsibility for national training policy and it, together with the National Training Council, is seeing that these matters receive attention. The Government already has directed its attention to improved technical training and it is determined to solve unemployment in the future by an examination of the hard questions facing us in the long term so that we can return to full employment with improved production and improved productivity. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable Minister's time has expired. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the National Training Council for the year ended 3 1 December 1976.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a short statement relating to this report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Department of Aboriginal Affairs 
Attorney-General's Department 
Department of Education 
Department of Employment and Industrial Relations 
Department of Health 
Department of Social Security 
Department of Veterans ' Affairs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations on 9 December  (Hansard, page  3702) to the honourable member's previous question stated that there are Working Women's Centres or Groups in a number of cities, including Adelaide. 
There is no Working Women's Centre as yet in Adelaide. However, a group called the Working Women's Charter Campaign Group has plans to set up a centre. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Department is not conducting an inquiry into research and development in Australia. It is, however, conducting a review of Government incentives to companies to undertake industrial research and development activity, including the provisions of the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act 1976. 
Since my appointment to the Ministry in November 1976, I have spoken to some hundreds of businessmen and invited them to comment on the Act. Already a large number of companies and industry groups have contributed constructive views. These views, together with my own thoughts concerning possible improvements to the program, are currently being examined by officers of the Department. 
However, as the Act came into effect on 1 July 1976 and as the first grant payments under its provisions will only be made during the 1977-78 financial year, I consider that it is still too early to fully assess the effectiveness of the program. Accordingly, I do not propose that any major amendments will be made to the Act until there has been sufficient time to assess fully its effectiveness. 
The honourable member may be aware that the Australian Science and Technology Council and the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment are at present undertaking inquiries which encompass Government funding of industrial research and development. The Department of Productivity is contributing to these inquiries. 
The honourable member has referred to the report to my colleague, the Minister for Defence. Of course, I certainly cannot make a specific comment upon that report. However, I would say that all industrialised countries are experiencing gaps in their technologygaps which are due to the rapid rate of growth in technology and also the high cost which is associated with it and the installation of the capabilities that go with it. Of course, if Australia considers its small economies of scale, it is realised that we have a serious problem indeed. So our policy within the government factories has been to provide a basic capability so that we can adopt and adapt new technology when the need arises. The honourable member asks about productivity initiatives. We have installed within the factories numerically controlled machine tools. We have begun project management programs. We have improved plant and work place design and communication within the plants, and we have given great attention to industrial safety programs. 
Within the Government Aircraft Factories, we have adopted all of those policies. In addition, we have engaged outside consultants to ensure that those factories are able to compete with private enterprise. We have adopted marketing programs, especially in respect of the Nomad aircraft. We have done a lot of work for the Boeing Corporation under the offset program, and that has helped the Government Aircraft Factories to tender competitively with private enterprise. There is, I believe, evident in the public comment upon the report to my colleague a general willingness to criticise Australian technology. I think Australians ought to remind themselves that we have within the Government Aircraft Factories produced the Ikara, the Jindivik, the Nomad, and InterScan, the microwave landing system. All of these projects have received world acclaim. They are all fine pieces of technology which have brought spin-offs for private industry in Australia as well as employment opportunities. 
Shortly after taking up my position as Minister for Productivity, I appointed as  Chairman  of the Production Board which supervises the 12 Government factories,  Mr Robert  Millar, a highly respected Melbourne industrialist who has great experience in the private sector. He has made a considerable contribution towards the improvement of productivity within the Government factories. 
Pursuant to section 40 of the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act 1976 1 present the annual report of the 
Australian Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board for the year 1976-77.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a short statement relating to this report. 
-On behalf of my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife),  I wish to clarify one point in the second reading speech. The second reading speech contained an error. It said that the proposed reduction in duty on high quality coking coal was from $4.50 a tonne to $3 a tonne. It should have indicated a reduction from $4.50 a tonne to $3.50 a tonne. The Bill is correct. It is merely in the second reading speech that the error occurred. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to implement the recommendations of the Remuneration Tribunal as to salaries and allowances of judges and persons of judicial status. This is effected firstly by clause 4 of the Bill which provides for the salaries and allowances set out in the Second Schedule and secondly by clause 9 which repeals and re-enacts in substance the existing legislative 
E revision for remuneration of presidential members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission at rates fixed for the Federal Court of Australia. 
In accordance with the recommendations of the Remuneration Tribunal, the new salaries are back-dated to 1 June 1977. Opportunity has been taken to revise provisions in a number of Acts relating to the salaries and allowances payable to judges and persons of judicial status occupying offices created by those Acts. The amendments will bring those provisions into a form which accords with the present policy of fixation by the Parliament of judicial salaries after recommendation by the Remuneration Tribunal. Subject to some exceptions, no provision is made for additional remuneration for persons occupying more than one office. The exceptions to which I refer fall into two groups. Firstly, the Chief Judges of the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory receive $2,500 by way of salary and $250 by way of annual allowance over and above their remuneration as members of the Federal Court of Australia. Secondly, an additional annual allowance of $250 is payable to the Presidents of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and Trade 
Practices Tribunal and the Director-General of Security. 
Opportunity has also been taken to ensure that the appointment of a judge or presidential member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to some other offices does not effect tenure of office as a judge or presidential member, as the case may be. In the case of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, Trade Practices Tribunal and the Prices Justification Tribunal, the new provisions, to be inserted by clauses 5, 16 and 18, make explicit what is probably implicit in the existing legislation. In the case of the Law Reform Commission, the new provisions in clauses 1 1 and 13 of the Bill have the effect of extending to a presidential member of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission the existing provisions which protect the status of a judge appointed as  chairman  of the Law Reform Commission. Clauses 12 and IS make amendments of a drafting nature only consequent upon the new definition of 'judicial office' to be inserted by clause 1 1. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An experimental model of InterScan is in successful operation at Melbourne airport. 
The unique principle on which InterScan is based has been submitted to ICAO for acceptance as the world standard. The Australian submission is supported in ICAO by the United States, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and other countries and the prospects of international acceptance are very good. The ICAO decision is expected in April 1 978. 
In view of the large market which is likely to develop in the 1980s for microwave aircraft landing systems, to take maximum advantage of InterScan's commercial possibilities my Department initiated in 1 976 a program to develop commercial and cost effective versions of InterScan. 
The InterScan system can be realised in a number of ways and this gives flexibility in developing cost effective commercial versions. The InterScan antennas at Melbourne Airport are based on an original CSIRO concept specifically to DOT requirements. Since then CSIRO has earned out theoretical studies which have suggested a new and novel approach to antenna design which is considered more likely to meet the wide and varied world requirements and which could reduce the size of the system and offer prospects of considerably reducing product costs. 
An experimental sub-system based on the new concept has been made up and test results have confirmed the theoretical predictions. 
Other work has been aimed at cost effective packaging based on the integration of electrical and mechanical parts in order to maximise reliability and minimise production costs. Considerable progress has been made in this direction. 
Although appreciable further development is required at an estimated cost of about $6m the technological lead gained by Australia through Government sponsored developments has provided Australian industry with the opportunity of entering and successfully participating in the international market for microwave landing systems. 
The project to develop commercial versions of Interscan is funded by my Department. Expenditure to 30 June 1978 is expected to be about $Im mainly in industry. This is in addition to the funds of about $5. 5m already expended by the Department of Transport and CSIRO in their continuing program. 
At the present time there is no recommendation before the Government relating to further funding of the project. In view of InterScan's apparent superiority over competing systems and the size of the market likely to develop efforts are being made to develop cost sharing arrangements with industry covering the further development required. 
An ICAO Panel of Experts has already recommended that the systems on which InterScan is based should be adopted by ICAO as the world standard. In the most unlikely event that this recommendation is reversed in favour of the competing United Kingdom Doppler system the commercial possibilities of InterScan would be small. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The development of productivity criteria or assessment procedures to measure and monitor the efficiency of tertiary industry is a matter of some complexity, given the diverse nature of the tertiary sector. 
In all sectors of industry there is a need for meaningful evaluation and assessment of efficiency and productivity. Whether in all cases this can be codified in criteria and procedures is not clear. I am having this matter investigated, along with other potentially useful ways to achieve improvements in productivity. 
The Acting Minister for Special Trade Negotiations, on behalf of  Mr Howard,  has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) From a newspaper report I saw sometime in 1 976. 
To the best of my recollection, it was after I had received the telephone call from  Mr Licardy.  (3)I may have briefly alluded to the disciplinary proceedings referred to in question ( 1 ) after I became aware of them to the Senior Private Secretary of the Treasurer. Beyond that, I have no record or recollection of any communications direct, or indirect with members of the Treasurer's personal staff about  Mr Licardy  since becoming a Minister on 22 December 1 975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government remains firmly convinced that a high degree of wage restraint is necessary to assist economic recovery. It seems important too, for profit margins to be at a level sufficient to encourage investment which will strengthen business operations and enhance job security. The indexation guidelines of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission clearly embrace the view that, regardless of the reasons for increases in labour costs beyond current indexation guidelines, unless their impact in economic terms is 'negligible' the economy cannot afford these increases. Wage indexation principles of the Commission provide for consideration to be given each year to what increase in total wage should be awarded on account of national productivity. 
Increases in productivity can be encouraged by means other than financial inducements, for example the improvement in working conditions and the application of better technology. 
by leave-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a short clarifying statement. The second reading speech delivered in relation to this Bill included the following sentence: 
Firstly, the Chief Judges of the Supreme Courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory receive $2,500 by way of salary and $250 by way of annual allowance over and above their remuneration as members of the Federal Court of Australia. 
That statement was incorrect. The figure of $2,500 should read $1,000. 1 make that point by way of clarification. 
in reply- I thank the former Attorney-General, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  who is the architect of this Bill, for having clarified for the benefit of the House some of the points raised by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I congratulate the former Attorney-General on drawing together in this legislation some of the many loose ends which were associated with the payment of people of judicial office. At the same time I thank the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  for his willingness to grapple with the complexities of this legislation and for the constructive comments he made in the debate. I say that because the honourable member for Griffith made a number of comments arising out of his frustration in not getting his letters answered by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers).  Although one may have sympathy for him in not getting his letters answered, the fact is that the answer he received was at least on the subject matter of the inquiry- and the subject matter of the inquiry was not the subject matter of this Bill. I make no comment on the nature of the answer he received. He will have to take that up with the Minister for Administrative Services. 
I should at least comment on some of the other points he made. Firstly, comment was made about the growth in the number of Federal judges. In respect of the judges of the Federal Court of Australia it should be said that all but two of those who are now judges of the Federal Court were already judges in Federal jurisdictions. The honourable member for Griffith also referred to the permanency of employment and contrasted it with the employment of certain other people. I do not believe that he could have been really serious in his comments, because he would know - 
The honourable member says that he did not attack permanency of employment but said that it was a benefit. I reaffirm that not only is it a benefit to those on the Bench but also it is a great benefit to Australians in the administration of justice. 
If the honourable member does not argue, I will not press the point further. The honourable member referred to the number of judges of the Family Court of Australia and presumably he was referring to the cost of the administration of them. Again the remuneration of those judges has no bearing on the number of judges there may be. That rests with the work load and the work which they are asked to do by an Act of this Parliament. If there are inadequacies in that, they can be looked at; but they have no bearing on the remuneration which the judgesare receiving. 
The honourable member for Griffith has been a supporter in this Parliament of individual liberty. He was, and still is, an ardent supporter of the family law legislation and he has of course been an ardent supporter of Parliament. I am pleased that in his interjections he has clarified what appeared to me to be inconsistencies between support for those measures and the comments he made. I thought for one moment that he was trying to outdo his namesake the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in his attacks on the judiciary. I do not think that I need to pursue those remarks any further, except to remind the House and anyone who happened to be listening to the remarks of the honourable member for Griffith and who might have wondered whether there was some conspiracy to mislead- of the purpose of this Bill as stated in the second reading speech. It stated: 
The primary purpose of this Bill is to implement the recommendations of the Remuneration Tribunal as to salaries and allowances of judges and persons of judicial status. 
It did not go beyond that. As the honourable member for Wentworth has said and as the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith has said, the second reading speech also states: 
Opportunity has been taken to revise provisions in a number of Acts relating to the salaries and allowances payable to judges and persons of judicial status occupying offices created by those Acts. 
The second reading speech states: 
The amendments will bring those provisions into a form which accords with the present policy of fixation by the Parliament of judicial salaries after recommendation by the Remuneration Tribunal. 
I believe that this Bill is important in the way in which it fulfils those objectives set out in the second reading speech. I certainly commend it to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
There is only a limited amount of time left in which to reply to what has been at the very least a very wide ranging debate. The honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  who challenged me to make a couple of comments, certainly strayed very far from the estimates, but I am bound to agree with him that the vexed problem in the Latrobe Valley is and has been one of long standing, and has been serious many times in recent years. It has never been more serious than it is now. The honourable member knows that very well. 
It is more serious than it has been. It has been serious on other occasions. The honourable member for Melbourne also referred to the fact that over the years too little attention has been given to the problems of training and retraining and long term manpower planning. Knowing that that has been a common Australian failing and that we are all notoriously short term thinkers, whether in management or in the unions or in different political parties, the honourable member should recall that it was the Labor Government which introduced an acrosstheboard tariff cut of 25 per cent when it knew very well that there was not available to it appropriate training and retraining programs to take up the people who would become unemployed as a result. 
I do not wish to devote any more time to the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne. 
I will come to the comments of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr 
Hurford) shortly and take up the point that he has now raised. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  made a commendable remark about small business. He is an example of a successful small businessman, and he has made a considerable contribution to the policy which was announced by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  last week. He was right in identifying the question of costs rather than inefficiency, a term which has been used a number of times in this debate by speakers from both sides of the chamber as being the biggest problem. The honourable member for Adelaide and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  both spoke of the need for long term thinking. I fully agree with their remarks in that respect. I have indicated already that we have been a nation of short term thinkers. It ill becomes any  speaker  in this debate, as the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  acknowledges by nodding his head, to score points from each other by our overall lack of forward thinking. It is in recognition of the fact that we have not been forward thinking that the Department of Productivity was created. We have begun long term programs. The fact that they have not received much publicity so far is again an indication of the concentration of our public debate and our media coverage on short term sensational matters which distort the picture of what is going on in the Australian community and in government programs. 
The honourable member for Adelaide rightly said that many of our problems are structural and interdependent. I acknowledge that and I acknowledge that when economic mismanagement occurs domestically and unfavourable trade patterns occur, then of course the structural problems are highlighted. I do not think I need to amplify that point to put the debate in context. 
Let me emphasise, however, that no glib solutions will be appropriate. One has to look, for example, at the productivity of our resources. I think this partly comes back to the remarks of my friend, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. In the area of the productivity of our resources he asks: 'What is productivity?' It certainly can be looked at as input and output. It is in essence the effective use of our resources, material and human. It is in that respect that the Department of Productivity was created, namely, to try to assist the Government in devising policies in respect of technology and peoplepeople at work and working with the technologyin order to try to get to a situation where in Australia we have some sensible long term discussions and long term policies which harmonise the rate of technology change with the rate of retraining of people to work with that technology and to minimise the fluctuations in the employment situation which may come from periods of economic recession. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned the footwear, clothing and textile industries. An unheralded exercise which this Government has initiated through the Department of Productivity has been to examine all aspects of the cost structures of those three industries in the long term in order to improve their productivity, in order to ensure that the level of protection which will be required to maintain those industries and to sustain jobs in those industries will be at the lowest level necessary because the productivity resulting from the technology and restructured job situations will be the highest possible. 
The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  devoted quite a lot of his speech to the need for improved Australian technology. This Government has again indicated its desire to retrieve some of the mistakes of the past in that respect. Many of the Australian inventions of the past, however, have gone unheralded. We have a remarkable record, expecially in the factories administered by the Department of Productivity, for very sophisticated technology. That again is another area in relation to which we will be able to export in our manufacturing sector The Ikara, the Jindivik, the Nomad and Interscan are all great innovations which have been devised in Australia, and more particularly in the electronics industry and the aircraft industry, both in the public and private sectors. These are all important projects which the Government intends to develop further and to market further in order to encourage Australian sophisticated manufacturing and a potential export industry. 
-The Government in this year's Budget has already committed to the Department of Productivity, whose estimates we are now considering, funds for the accelerated development of InterScan. As the honourable member for Hindmarsh knows- I know he applauds it- there will be considerable spin-off to Australian industry, with the creation of new jobs in the electronics area of Australian industry. By the exporting of some of the manufactured goods and by the exporting of the expertise and the information we will make a great contribution not only to our own export earnings but also in the area of assistance to others. Now that InterScan has obtained international recognition as a microwave landing system it will eventually be marketed throughout the world. 
-At this stage it is being developed entirely by Australia but, of course, it will involve a lot of international assistance. It will be a co-operative venture. 

 Mr Deputy Chairman, I must not allow my friend the honourable member for Hindmarsh, to stray me away from considering the estimates. I undertook to answer the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam).  No one would deny the importance of the legislative framework for business regulation as administered by my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  The extent and the content of that framework and the substance of the policies administered within the framework is a matter for a policy debate and not a matter for discussion during consideration of the estimates. I think all of the matters raised by the honourable member for Grayndler have been debated many times in this House. I believe he made the mistake of identifying levels of expenditure with effective policies. Merely to observe that less money was allocated for this or for that specific item is, I think, to overlook the fact that good policies are not necessarily equated with high levels of spending. I seem to remember that we have discussed that topic in this place before. 
The honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  made the same mistake with respect to tourism. This Government has committed itself to promoting tourism and to developing tourism efficiently. To do it efficiently means that we must think before we spend. We have appointed a select committee of the House on tourism, a suggestion which came from the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  on the opposite side and which was adopted by the Government. In addition to that, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  has been having detailed discussions with parties representing all sectors of the tourist industry. The Government's policies in that area will certainly recognise the importance of that industry to Australia, both in terms of earnings and in terms of jobs. 
I agree with the remarks of the honourable member for Lang regarding the need for Australians, whether they be in government, in management or in the unions, to fulfil the potential of the country by co-operation rather than by confrontation. I think most people in this Committee would certainly endorse his remarks in that regard. I disagree with the remarks he made about the inefficiency of industry. I think he showed an unfortunate unawareness of the fact that it is the cost problems rather than the efficiency of our management about which we are really concerned. In order to be competitive we have to ensure that our industry is not merely as efficient as that in other countries but that it is more efficient. 
The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  made the same error with respect to efficiency. But he rightly shunned the extremes of the debate on free trade and protection. He said that the real argument is how much protection is required in Australia. I think I have made it clear that the Australian people certainly are prepared to pay for protection but they are entitled to be satisfied that productivity is of such an order that the protection provided is at the lowest level necessary to sustain those industries and those jobs. 
My time is certainly running out. I must conclude on the point of the creation of jobs, to which several honourable members have referred. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports said that we should ask ourselves not only what can we export but also how can we create jobs. We can certainly export our resources, our sophisticated technology, our information and knowledge in civil engineering and so forth, and we can certainly create more jobs not only by improving our productivity in respect of both human and material resources, but also by expanding our economy by means of growth. I believe that a better utilisation of our resources and a reduction in the rate of inflation will create for us the jobs which we require. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I do recall the Act and I do recall the very commendable features of the Act. I know that the Attorney-General gives it high priority and that he intends to have it proclaimed as soon as possible. He is currently working on regulations under the Act. If the term 'as soon as possible' is not precise enough for the honourable member, I shall ask the Attorney-General to convey a more precise time. But I know that it will be done as soon as possible. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill was foreshadowed in the statement to Parliament by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 6 October when he announced the Government's decision to appoint  Mr Justice  Fox as Ambassador-at-Large, to represent Australia overseas in international endeavours to secure a strengthened nuclear non-proliferation regime. In announcing that decision, the Prime Minister mentioned that the Government would be introducing legislation to enable  Mr Justice  Fox to retain his judicial status and the rights which attach to that status while he is AmbassadoratLarge. This Bill makes, provision for those matters. 

 Mr Justice Fox is at present the Chief Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory and he is also a Judge of the Federal Court of Australia. As the Prime Minister mentioned in his statement of 6 October,  His  Honour proposes, when the formalities in relation to his ambassadorial appointment have been completed, to resign his office of Chief Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. This is a step which will be greatly regretted. I know that  His  Honour has reached his decision to resign only after very careful consideration. It is an unselfish step which  His  Honour considers he should take in the interests of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, having regard to the administrative nature of the duties of the Chief Judge of that Court. 

 His Honour will nevertheless retain his appointment as a Judge of the Federal Court of Australia and the present Bill will remove any doubts that otherwise might exist as to the effect that the ambassadorial appointment might have had on his judicial office. This is in line with the legislative action that was taken to remove any doubts that the diplomatic appointments of  Sir John  Latham and  Sir Owen  Dixon in 1940 and 1942 respectively, and the appointment last year of  Mr Justice  Woodward as Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, may have had on their judicial offices. The Bill provides that while  Mr Justice  Fox is holding his appointment as Ambassador-at-Large he will retain his entitlements to remuneration and annual allowance that he would have had as Chief Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory.  His  pension entitlement under the Judges' Pensions Act 1968 is also to be retained on that basis. 
When  Mr Justice  Fox's appointment as Ambassador-at-Large comes to an end he will retain his position as a Judge of the Federal Court of Australia and he will be entitled to remuneration and annual allowance on that basis. This will be a somewhat lesser entitlement than  His  Honour would have had if he had retained the office of Chief Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, but  His  Honour has indicated that this is nevertheless acceptable to him. Somewhat different considerations, however, apply in relation to  His  Honour's pension entitlement under the Judges' Pensions Act. The Bill provides that  His  Honour will not suffer any loss of pension entitlement, which has largely accrued already, by reason of his proposed resignation as Chief Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. I am sure honourable members will agree that it is appropriate that  His  Honour should retain his pension rights. 
It remains only for me to endorse what the Prime Minister has already said about the importance which the Government attaches to  Mr Justice  Fox's proposed appointment as AmbassadoratLarge and to  His  Honour's pre-eminent qualifications for the task. It is a great pity that during the term of his appointment he will be unavailable for judicial service but his contribution towards our endeavours to secure a strengthened nuclear non-proliferation regime will, I am sure, more than make up for this. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-I am not aware of the matters raised by the honourable member but I will contact the Attorney-General and ask that he reply to the honourable member as soon as possible. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Department of Productivity for 1976-77 entitled Productivity 1977'. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
-Time is limited so I shall speak very briefly on behalf of my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  This debate was opened by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who made reference to the ratio of unemployed persons to job vacancies. The number of unfilled job vacancies has fallen in the past 12 months, as the honourable member observed, and one important reason for this is the fact that the staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service has increased and jobs have been filled more quickly. The CES is now placing more people in employment and training than ever before. In September 1977 the CES referred 25,000 people a week' for employment compared with 22,000 a week in September 1976. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand also made reference to the problem of job creation, in particular in the public sector. He referred to the Regional Employment Development scheme of the previous Government. On his own figures he indicated the astonishing cost of placing a very limited number of people in employment under that scheme. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said today, the Government has allocated unlimited funds for training programs. We are concerned with the placing of people in permanent employment. Whatever prospects there may be for an expansion of the public sector, as mentioned by the honourable member for Gellibrand, the primary area for job creation is undoubtedly in the private sector. Real prospects for employment opportunities in the private sector will come only when there is substantial economic growth. Enough has been said in this chamber in the past few days and also today to indicate strongly that that is the Government's policy and that that policy is being realised. 
I refer to some figures that were prepared by my colleague and released on 2 1 October. These indicate the number of persons who have been assisted in 1976-77 and who are likely to be assisted in 1977-78. In respect of apprenticeships, there were 24,000 in 1976-77 and we expect 34,000 to be assisted in 1977-78. In respect of the National Employment and Training scheme, 19,000 were assisted during 1976-77 and we expect 40,000 to be assisted in 1977-78-a very dramatic growth as a result of a program aimed at training people for permanent employment, not just a 'make work' program. Under the Special Youth Employment Training Program 15,000 were assisted in 1976-77- again a remarkable result for its first year of operationand we expect 45,000 to be assisted in 1977-78, a very substantial growth in respect of the Special Youth Employment Training Program. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  has just told us that the Government does not care for youth. In the second year after the introduction of the scheme we anticipate assisting 45,000 young people. Under the community youth support scheme 12,000 young people were assisted in 1976-77 and we expect 30,000 young people to be assisted in 1977-78. My colleague, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, in announcing these figures on 2 1 October said: 
The Government's determination to come to grips with the youth employment problem is further evidenced by its already announced commitment that no Commonwealth Government training program will be inhibited in its operations during 1 977-78 by lack of funds. 
The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  outlined the nature and extent of the various employment and training schemes to which I have referred. So later did the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie).  I do not believe, in the interests of time, I need add to the comments already made. The scheme was introduced thoughtfully by the Government and it has been an effective package of measures in respect of training programs for permanent employment. 
The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  made his maiden speech tonight. I congratulate him on its presentation. He spoke with confidence, with zest and with obvious knowledge of his electorate. But insofar as his remarks had national application, I believe that much the same can be said for them as I have said in respect of the remarks of the honourable member for Gellibrand. I mentioned the honourable member for Shortland in passing. I mentioned again that I will certainly draw his remarks to the attention of my colleague, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. But I should say that the Commonwealth Employment Service is instructed by my colleague that wherever it is aware of any abuse by an employer it is not to place with that employer persons for training purposes. Of course, it is still under an obligation to place people for employment purposes wherever it can and the employer still has the traditional right, subject to awards, to terminate employment. But in respect of any abuse of the training schemes of the Government, of course the Commonwealth Employment Service is under instructions not to allow an employer a second opportunity if an abuse has occurred. I shall nevertheless bring those matters to the attention of my colleague. 
In respect of my friend, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  - 
-I left the best until last. The honourable member has raised very serious matters. I am sure that my colleague, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, would be extremely concerned about them. I am sure that his Department will study the matters not only closely, but also as a matter of urgent public interest, and that my colleague will give attention to them and will make contact with the honourable member for Hindmarsh. I believe that  Mr Oliver  has been removed from the position of secretary of the New South Wales branch of the federally registered Australian Workers Union. It is sad to think of the historic AWU being the subject- one might say the victim- of yet another protracted industrial court battle. Undoubtedly the Federal Court of Australia is where that battle now belongs. No doubt the matter will be dealt with by that Court as expeditiously as possible and all the matters of substance will be judged then. The only thing it would be appropriate for me to say, beyond pointing out the fact that I know the matter will be dealt with by my colleague urgently, is that if I were in  Mr Oliver  s position I would be most pleased to have the industrial experience, wit, intelligence and eloquence of the honourable member for Hindmarsh as my adviser and advocate. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Ian Robinson)-  I call the honourable member for Mackellar. 
I seek leave of the House to move five motions relating to the proposed redistribution into electoral divisions of the States of New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The information sought by the honourable member is not held in my Department. However, I am informed that the overall figures are as set out below. If the honourable member wants more specific information he should make inquiries of the relevant State authorities. 
-I shall convey the question to the Attorney-General and ask him to answer the Leader of the Opposition as soon as possible. 
I do not think that I need to detain the House for very long. I believe that the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar' has responded most appropriately to the Opposition. We heard from the honourable member for Hughes (Mr Les Johnson),  who has now left the chamber, a lengthy, tedious and repetitious speech which was amply padded by newspaper editorials. As you observed,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  they had nothing to do with this BUI. As was observed by the honourable member for Kal.goorlie  (Mr Cotter),  it was interesting for us on the Government side to hear tonight the support which was forthcoming from the Opposition by means of newspaper editorials. Almost daily in this House members of the Opposition are prone to say that the newspapers are slanted against them. It was illuminating to hear the support for Australia 's leading newspapers which was given by the Opposition on this occasion. 
The speech of the honourable member for Hughes was repetitious. I am reminded of the fact that he was once Minister for Housing. It was then said of him that he could talk under wet cement but could not build a house. It has been demonstrated tonight that at least he can talk at great length on a Bill which occupies just over a page and contains six clauses. It is a simple Bill and it could be disposed of quickly. All of the points raised by the honourable member - 
-The honourable member for Oxley should know; he once aspired to be one. All of the points raised by the honourable member for Hughes argue in favour of the Bill. He raised the matter of expense. I understand that 12 people are permanently in the new Department. A few other people have been seconded, but only a few and only temporarily. He also referred to the function of this Department and made a point, again repetitiously and tediously, about overlap. This point was answered adequately by the honourable member for Wide Bay. 
The honourable member for Hughes mentioned confrontation. He said that there was potential for confrontation at ministerial and permanent head level. With respect to ministerial level, the matters with which the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations is concerned are decided by Cabinet, as are those of the Minister for Overseas Trade. That, one would have thought, would minimise confrontation at that level. The whole spirit and purpose of this BUI is to avoid any possible confrontation at permanent head level. So the honourable member for Hughes was speaking quite contrary to the BUI. One wonders whether he has read the BUI. 
I want to quote from the Press release referred to by the honourable member for Wide Bay. It was issued by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 17 July and in it he announced the appointment of  Mr Howard  as the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations. The Prime Minister said: 

 Mr Howard remains Minister Assisting the Prime Minister. He will work in close collaboration with the Ministers for Overseas Trade and Foreign Affairs. 
It is quite clear that there will be no confrontation there. The Prime Minister then went on to say: 

 Mr Howard's appointment has been made because Australia needs to be represented at the highest level, on a continuing basis, if the bilateral trade problems facing Australia and the EEC are to be resolved adequately. 
The need for this high level appointment became clear during my discussions in Europe with the  President  of the Commission and with heads of a number of European Governments. The decision to appoint a Minister to lead these negotiations demonstrates the importance which Australia places on its trading relations with Western Europe. 
Later in that Press statement, the Prime Minister said: 

 His role will extend to other areas in the international and commercial field, where problems of interest to Australia could profitably be discussed with the EEC. 
It is very clear from that statement- I have not bored the House by reading all of it- that none of the so-called fears expressed by the honourable members for Hughes is realised or realisable. I commend this Bill to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
) An officer of the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor's Office, Brisbane, had discussions with  Mr Fancher  between April and June 1976 concerning proceedings to wind up Yarraden Pastoral Holdings Pry Ltd. Between August 1976 and December 1976 there were discussions and correspondence between an officer of the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor's Office, Townsville and  Mr Fancher  concerning the recovery of telephone charges. 
So far as I am aware there was no occasion other than that mentioned in ( 1 ) above. 
Electoral Division of Bowman: Closure of Non-official Post Offices (Question No. 1266) 
The Attorney-General has furnished the following answer to the honourable member's question: (1)I have noted that in a paper presented at the 1 9th Australian Legal Convention it was suggested that the Government's 'review' of legal aid was a euphemism for 'disposal'. 
and (3) The suggestion is unfounded as appears from this year's Budget appropriation for legal aid of $23.4m which is an increase of $ 1 . 6m above last year's expenditure. 
The Government believes that legal aid in both the Federal and State area can be most effectively provided through a single legal aid commission in each State established under State law. The interest of the Commonwealth in the adequacy and equality of the provision of legal aid in the Federal area throughout Australia will be given effect to through the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission. The Commission will make recommendations to State and Territorial Commissions concerning the provision of legal aid in the Federal area and will monitor the performance of those Commissions in providing that aid. The Commission will also decide or advise upon the provision of legal aid in special Commonwealth matters in areas referred to it by Commonwealth legislation or by the Attorney-General. 
The Government has taken the view that the existing level of staffing should be maintained during the review of legal aid. Following the establishment of the Commonwealth Legal Aid Commission and the Legal Aid Commission of the Australian Capital Territory, the AttorneyGeneral's Department is taking up with the Public Service Board the question of the staff needed by the new Commissions to enable them to efficiently perform their functions. The staffing needs of the State Commissions will be a matter for consideration by the Commissions themselves after their establishment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The request was made after the wrong States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill 1976 had been assented to. 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
1 ) The Counsel were  Mr D.  G. McGregor, Q.C., and  Mr W.H.  Denton, Q.C. 
In addition to statements by the Solicitor-General and the Secretary to the Attorney-General's Department, there were statements from  Mr A.  C. C. Menzies and  Mr D.  J. Rose of that Department Statements were also available from  Mr N.  F. Wicks, formerly Secretary to the Federal Executive Council, and  Mr D.  W. Edgerley, formerly an officer of the Council. 
Hospitals Development Program 
This program was established in 1974-75 to provide capital assistance to the States over a five-year period for the provision of new hospitals, mental institutions, hostels and nursing homes and the upgrading of existing facilities. 
The following approved projects were included in the New South Wales total program of works for which a Hospitals Development Program block grant was provided. 
-The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The resident Judges of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court are the Chief Judge,  Mr Justice  Fox,  Mr Justice  Blackburn and  Mr Justice  Connor. The intention of  Mr Justice  Fox to resign from the Court has already been announced  (Hansard,  6 October 1977, page 177S) and it is anticipated that the person appointed to fill the vacancy thus created will then be available for full time service to the Court.  Mr Justice  Blackburn is presently on sabbatical leave and is expected to resume judicial duty on 12 December.  Mr Justice  Connor is presently committed to sit on the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia to hear appeals from the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court and on the Courts-Martial Appeal Tribunal for a total period of eight days. Subject to these commitments he is expected to be available to the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court until 9 December when he is scheduled to proceed on leave until early February. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Patent, Trade Marks and Designs Office annual report 1976-77. 

 -Mr Speaker, I will not detain the House for very long. I place on record my respect for the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean).  I agree with the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton).  I also represent an electorate that adjoins Melbourne Ports. Frank Crean has cooperated with me in all respects in the City of St Kilda, as he has with my colleague in the City of Prahran. It was my privilege to know Frank Crean well before I came into this place. We served together on the Council of Adult Education in Victoria, when he was  Chairman.  He was  Chairman  for 20 years. I know him to be a most worthy citizen. It is my hope that future governments, Federal and State, will make use of his great talents, because he is too young to retire from active duty on behalf of the Australian community. He has great experience. I believe that in this Parliament he has raised some very good questions. He has helped to point us a little along the way to finding some of the answers to those almost intractable questions. I, for one, look forward to hearing him express his opinions from time to time. I hope that a number of us are able to give him opportunities to do that 
The retiring Government members and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  know of my respect for them, and I need not amplify that. I have not had the privilege of knowing the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley),  but I believe that what my colleague the honourable member for Higgins has said is widely held. I, from my position, respect him also. I believe that he also still can make a contribution similar to that which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports can make. In conclusion I join with those who have congratulated you,  Mr Speaker,  on the way in which you have handled the difficult occasions in this Parliament. They erupt quickly and without warning. I believe that you have drawn upon your industrial relations background in conciliating and in defusing situations which someone less wise, less calm and with less sense of humour would have found getting out of hand. I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker. 

 - Mr Antony Whitlam asked me, as Minister representing the Attorney-General, the following question, without notice, on 25 October 1977: Is the Minister representing the Attorney-General aware that the Trade Practices Commission has recently contacted over 700 Australians about losses totalling $ 120,000 suffered by them in a fraudulent home-operated business scheme called Contra-Pac systems? Has the Commission referred to the Australian Legal Aid Office the hundreds of applications for legal aid which it has subsequently received. Can the honourable gentleman give an assurance that adequate legal assistance will be given promptly to the many people who lost their savings in this fraudulent scheme? 
The Attorney-General has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
The Australian Legal Aid Office has received a large number of applications for legal assistance under the Trade Practices Act from persons who have paid money in relation to a home-operated business venture initially known as 'Contra-Pac Systems ' and later as 'Duffs Contract Packers '. I have authorised the Director of the Australian Legal Aid Office to decide upon the applications in accordance with Section 170 of the Trade Practices Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 16 libraries in my Department The main purpose of each individual library is to meet the reference ana information needs of the establishment which it serves. In addition the Central Office library acts as a central coordinating unit for the provision of information services to Australian Industry through the Australian Industry Information Network and provides advice and systems support to other departmental libraries 
A complete list of Productivity libraries and their locations follows 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister to Senate question No. 1116, which appeared in  Hansard  on 8 November 1977. 
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: Expenditure on Travel (Question No. 1649) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Productivity was created on 8 November 1976. During the remainder of the financial year 1976-77, the following are the relevant details. 
(a) Overseas travel, 1976-77-$39,635 (b) Domestic travel, 1976-77- $439,818 
(a) The percentages of the Department's expenditure on travel and subsistence (excluding car hire) were: 
Overseas 8.3 per cent of total Domestic 9 1 .7 per cent of total 
Department of Veterans' Affairs: Expenditure on Travel (Question No. 1660) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
As soon as a decision has been taken. 
-The answer is no. I have not communicated with the South Australian Premier in that fashion. As a matter of fact I have not seen the South Australian Government's legislative policy in this area. I have read newspaper reports this week, as apparently has the South Australian Opposition, which relate to a proposed legislative program to place employees on the boards of both public and private corporations. In fact, as I understand the position, it was as a result of those reports that the Leader of the Opposition in South Australia asked a question in the South Australian Parliament, and the reply from the Premier was that I endorsed the policy. The only document which I have seen in relation to the South Australian policy, apart from a tripartite committee's advisory report, was a statement from the South Australian Minister for Labour and Industry from which I might quote an extract which I think illustrates the argument. He states: 
Considerable debate on industrial democracy takes place between the South Australian Government and the Opposition. However, this debate often ignores the very strong common element between both the major parties on this topic. The South Australian Liberal Party Policy is very similar to the one supported by the South Australian Labour Government in 1973-74. That policy supports job enrichment programs and the formation of joint consultative councilsthe types of initiatives which occupy most of the time of the Unit for Industrial Democracy. The major areas of difference are with respect to the involvement of trade unions and the election of workers directors. 
As the South Australian Minister has said, there is a strong common element between the policies of the two major parties in respect of so-called industrial democracy, employee participation and so forth and in practice the South Australian Branch of the Department of Productivity and the South Australian Department of Labour and Industry have worked together very closely in this area. I have not seen a statement of the legislative policy of the South Australian Government but if the South Australian Minister says that the major differences between the two parties relate to worker directors and the role of trade unions, I believe that would be the position. I support this Government's policy, and that is, therefore, the policy which I espouse.  His Excellency  the Governor-General made it clear yesterday. I quote: 
A wider spirit of participation and employee involvement in the work-place will be encouraged so that employees and employers can co-operate to improve industrial safety, working conditions, job satisfaction and productivity. 
Our policy is clear. The Premier of South Australia, as I understand it, has spoken about prescriptive and enabling legislation and said that there will not be prescriptive legislation; he will only facilitate the appointment of employees on the boards of companies. I believe that if that is the Premier's policy he is starting at the wrong end. The policy of this Government is to look for direct involvement between employees and employers regarding the matters mentioned yesterday by His Excellency. We believe that in fact it would be counter-productive to improved employee-employer relations for emphasis to be placed on employee-directors. 
-Work is still proceeding with the adaptation of the Nomad aircraft for surveillance purposes under the title Searchmaster. Work is still proceeding, in a technical sense, but submissions have been made to an interdepartmental committee which is looking at the whole question of coastal surveillance. When the time is right an announcement will be made about the appropriateness of the Nomad for that purpose. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Nil. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Productivity was created on 8 November 1976. From that date to 30 June 1977 a sum of $12,147 was spent on advertising and services. During the period 1 July 1 977 to 28 February 1 978 $ 1 4,743 was spent. 
The Department of Productivity has an ongoing and developing requirement for advertising services such as for the recruitment of staff and for promoting the activities for which the Department is responsible. No special campaigns were undertaken. 
Division 522-2-05- Department of Productivity- Advertising; Division 523-2-08- The Patent, Trade Marks and Designs Office- Incidental and other expenditure. 
to (6) All advertising undertaken on the Department of Productivity's behalf is arranged by the Australian Government Advertising Service. 
The estimated cost of advertising for 1977-78 is $42,400. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In common with many other nations Australia has no nationally compiled statistics on the time lost as a result of industrial accidents. The statistics which are available are the respective Commonwealth and State Governments' returns based on claims finalised during each year under workers' compensation insurance. Because of differences in the Federal and State compensation legislation and methods of statistical collection, national figures can only be based on extrapolations and must be regarded as approximations. With those qualifications, the time lost is of the order of 5 million man-days per annum. Consultations between my Department, the Australian Bureau of Statistics and State Government Departments are continuing with a view to removing this impediment but it may be some time before this objective is achieved. 
The Government's objectives in regard to its policy to reduce the incidence of industrial accidents and health problems in Australian industry and the principal measures by which it intends to implement them are as follows: 
The Government regards activities to reduce industrial accidents and prevent occupational disease as inter-related and: 
acknowledges industrial safety as a major objective to be pursued with employers, employees and their organisations; 
in consultation with the respective State Governments, will be concerned to continue to improve the safety of the working environment; 
will encourage employers and employees to develop and establish some continuing mechanism of their own choosing designed to further communication and understanding of their common interests in the matter of industrial safety procedures; 
will conduct continuing surveys of industrial practices in different enterprises and developments in these areas in overseas industrial countries and make this information generally available; 
v) will continue to promote and publish the results of its research as a means of encouraging the adoption of the most advanced practices in this field; and 
vi) will support voluntary organisations, for example the National Safety Council of Australia which is in receipt of Commonwealth financial assistance, to promote awareness of industrial safety and facilitate measures to reduce industrial accidents. The National Safety Council of Australia Federal Council recently held a meeting in Canberra to focus attention on its 1978 National Safety Campaign by all State Divisions on the need for a considerable reduction in the incidence of industrial accidents. In this respect my Department and the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia are co-operating to further the efforts of the Council in this work. 
I should add that the National Safety Council's record over the years shows that it promotes and teaches practices that have been demonstrated in application to be effective in reducing industrial accidents in almost all circumstances. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Employees at the munitions and the aircraft and guided weapons establishments belong to the following unions. 
Administrative and Clerical Officers Association 
Australian Public Service Association (4th Division Officers) 
Professional Officers Association 
Federated Clerks Union 
Commonwealth Foreman's Association 
Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draftsmen of Australia 
Association of Professional Engineers of Australia 
Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union 
Australian Society of Engineers 
Federated Storemen and Packers Union 
Building Workers Industrial Union 
Federated Engine Drivers and Firemens Association 
Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union 
Clothing Trades Union 
Amalgamated Society of Carpenters and Joiners 
Plumbers and Gasfitters Union 
Vehicle Builders Employees Federation of Australia 
Transport Workers Union 
Australian Workers Union 
Electrical Trades Union 
Australian Public Service Artisans Association 
Federated Iron Workers Association 
Operative Painters and Decorators Union 
Australian Timber Workers Union. 
Personnel in the factories are not required to disclose union membership and we are unable to answer the second part of the question. 
Royal Commission into Human Relationships: Recommendations (Question No.  691) 
-There is a long-standing principle underlying the offsets program, that is, that Australian industry must be competitive in price, delivery and quality. To the extent that Australian industry does not benefit from programs such as that to which the honourable member referred, the answer is found in its lack of competitiveness. The article this morning carried the implication that there was some reneging on the part of Australia on the obligation which - 
The Chrysler company has informed the Government of its decision. It made a commercial decision. 
Just before it made it public. As a matter of courtesy, the company informed the Government this morning prior to making its public announcement. The important point to be recognised is that this company has no doubts about its future viability in the market place. 
No thanks to the Leader of the Opposition. Some of the reasons for the decision are the rationalisation of its production line, the introduction of new technology, and the success of the Sigma, which in fact requires fewer employees working on it than do other models of vehicles produced by the company. It is a direct response by the company to its position in the market place that has led to this decision. It is a decision that the company heralds as being important for its future viability and it looks forward to the future with confidence. 
The answer is yes, there was such a meeting. If I may say so, it was something of a challenge at times, but I believe there was a frank discussion. I regret that it had not occurred some time ago. The representatives of both the company and the trade union movement together with the two members of Parliament from Tasmania gained information which, had it been available earlier would, I believe, have been very helpful in resolving a very difficult human problem more easily than has been the case in recent weeks. I believe that as a result of that discussion last night- and the rational way in which they approached a highly emotional subject was a tribute to each of the parties concernedthere will now be a discussion by the company with its employees and most humane treatment will be accorded in a very difficult situation. The only point I think I should add is that the decision was a commercial one by the Dunlop company in respect of three product lines, one of which will continue to be operated in Hobart. It is hoped it can expand its volume of production in that product Une. In respect of the other two it will enable employment to be gained elsewhere as a result of their transfer. 
I am pleased to be able to inform the House that the stretched version of the Nomad aircraft this week has received United States certification which is regarded in the aviation world as  world  recognition. The earlier version, the N22, had previously obtained that recognition. The Prime Minister tells  me  that he and a Canadian visitor this week were equally impressed with the aircraft. The importance of this, as the honourable member has raised, is that we have sales potential all around the world. The United States certification opens up world potential for this aircraft. In fact, so far orders have been placed for it by the Philippines, Malaysia, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, Iran and Chile. The United Kingdom and Sweden have options to purchase the aircraft, and leasing arrangements have been entered into in the United States of America. I might mention also that currently negotiations are taking place in many parts of the world, including Poland and India, in regard to the aircraft. That indicates that virtually we are operating our sales teams in all countries, certainly in all continents, and that there is a very great future for potential sales of the Nomad aircraft. 
I should say in respect of the second part of the honourable member's question that in conjunction with the Overseas Projects Corporation we could well market the  InterScan  airport land guidance system and the Nomad aircraft as a package. One should bear in mind all the other expertise available in Australia, which is at the end of the jet aircraft routes and which services jets from overseas. We have a great deal of skill and technology to provide to the world. I think it is most important that it be recognised that Australia can enter into negotiations with other countries in Asia and in the Pacific region in respect of such matters. Some of these countries may manufacture these products under licence. Certainly, we will train some of the workers in these countries to work with this technology. 
I think that there is a great deal of potential in this area. After hearing some of the comments made in the House this week of a very pessimistic nature about future employment prospects, we should think a little about our Australian inventiveness which is here and which is taking place and the marketing potential which we have if we are positive in our approach. This Government certainly will encourage industries to develop new, high technology to provide satisfying jobs and greater export earnings for this country. 
-The implication of the development of InterScan for all airports is very great throughout the world, not only for Australia. Its acceptance is a tribute to  Dr Wild  and his Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial 
Research Organisation colleagues who developed this very dramatic and marvellous invention. With regard to Australian airports, one of the benefits can be illustrated by reference to Sydney airport where both today and last Friday fogs greatly disrupted air services. Were Interscan installed there, services would be greatly improved as would the situation in Canberra. 
InterScan in fact provides a multiplicity of variable flight paths under the most extreme weather conditions. Environmental factors are again largely the responsibility of the Minister for Transport. In Sydney the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee is studying that element. I think that the honourable member should pursue that question with the Minister for Transport. 
With respect to the electronics industry, a great deal of progress has been made in the last few weeks towards establishing a commercial base for the manufacture and marketing of InterScan. I believe that this will provide a very great boost to the electronics industry in Australia for decades to come because it will be installed in every aircraft in every airport in the world. It will provide the Australian industry with a great deal of the market. Certainly this Government is determined to do all that it can to help Australian industry get the biggest possible slice of what will be a continuing world market. 
A number of the things that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said simply do not rest well together. The most important point made in the fifteen minutes of his speech was that made by way of interjection by the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton),  who asked the honourable member for Adelaide which companies he would close down. Let us look at what the honourable member for Adelaide spoke about. He said that we, as a Government, were neglecting people, neglecting the employment situation. At the same time he said that we had to have a rationalisation of product lines. He identified engines with a certain number of cylinders as being open to rationalisation. He spoke about the rationalisation of marketing procedures and the rationalisation of company structures. He talked about reducing the number of companies in the industry. Looking at each of those factors, we can conclude only that the Opposition intends, with regard to the motor vehicle industry, to implement the kinds of things which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and other shadow Ministers have been putting forward for some time. 
Each of those plans makes great sense economically and great sense in terms of market decisions, but each of them carries with it serious consequences as regards unemployment. It is all very well to talk about all those conceptsimproving productivity, improving economies of scale, the rationalisation of product lines and company structures and marketing procedures and so forth- but one cannot, in the same breath, condemn the Government for having a high protectionist policy, which is designed to enable a climate to be established in which companies will make decisions of that nature and which, as a consequence, will lead to some unemployment. 
It is humbug and hypocrisy to say, as has been said by the honourable member for Adelaide today, that we have been showing a benign neglect for manufacturing industry generally. In fact we have been criticised for various measures of high protection which we have adopted deliberately in order that industry will make decisions of the kind to which the honourable member was referring, in order that they will restructure themselves and will redevelop and make themselves more internationally competitive in order both to resist imports and to find export markets. We have been adopting those proposalsand we have been roundly criticised for it- in order to protect as much as possible employment in our manufacturing sector. At the same time- and this has been illustrated by the InterScan venture, the Nomad venture and other activities with which we have been identified most actively- we have been seeking to create new industries, with new job opportunities, to harness our high education and our technology and to create satisfying jobs, not to treat workers as chattels as the honourable member said. 
We cannot however, guarantee everyone a job; certainly not the same job he has always had. The Chifley White Paper on employment did not guarantee everyone the job of his choice but it did seek to guarantee a job within the market structure. We are seeking to do that; we are seeking to create the climate in which the transition can be made, with minimal dislocation to employment and to other economic and social aspects. So we are seeking to create a climate for investment of both capital and labour. In this regard there have been many debates in this Parliament about the training and retraining programs which have been adopted. One can only conclude that in respect of the motor vehicle industry, as in respect of manufacturing generally, the Opposition continues to talk the industry down, to talk the economy down. What that does to the morale of people, I really do not know. We talk about consumer demand and the stimulation of consumer demand. This Government set out to create tax cuts aimed at achieving consumer spending, a demand by consumers and the spending by consumers. As long as the Opposition talks the industry down and talks the economy down and convinces people that they should not spend, that they should put their further tax savings in the bank, of course there will not be a demand for motor vehicles or any other form of manufactured goods. 
The Government rejects out of hand the terms of this motion. Consistent with the Opposition's practice over the last two years, this motion is just part of its process of trying to create a lack of confidence when the Government is working very hard at creating confidence in the economy on the part of all concerned. The Opposition has not put forward one realistic or constructive proposal in this general debate. There have been allusions to the effect that surely it is not beyond the wit of government to do this or to do that. In fact it is not the role of government to decide exactly how the market will be rationalised, what will be produced or how it will be marketed, or which company will merge with what. It is the task of government to create the climate in which good management can prevail and in which the right decisions can be made. None of those decisions, in the difficult climate in which our manufacturing industry now finds itself, will be easy. None of them will be made without some ramifications, both social and economic. 
The Leader of the Opposition, on occasions, has claimed that a total cost of $250m would be required to halve sales tax. He says that this cost could be easily managed. Another example of the Opposition's failure to learn from its experience in government can be seen from this remark. Is this $250m to be an additional cost to the inflationary Budget deficit? If not, where would the Opposition raise this $250m? To mislead consumers into believing that sales tax is going to be cut is to damage consumers themselves. It will damage the health of the industry and the health of all those about whom the Opposition purports to be concerned. It will damage the morale and the security of employment of the people in the work force because the more the Opposition talks about the prospect of a sales tax cut, the more people will refrain from buying a car in case the price is going to be reduced. All that will be achieved is the creation of a bottleneck somewhere along the line if we do as  Dr Jim  Cairns did and introduce a cut in sales tax. This puts off the difficult question which the industry must face in due course. 
-The honourable member will have his chance to say so later. 
I do not know that. I know that in fact it created problems. This Government recognises the fact that the industry has experienced certain difficulties over the past 12 months and that registrations in the first quarter of the current year have been subdued. I want to stress that, nevertheless, the outlook for the motor vehicle market in 1978 is generally better than the result achieved in 1977. 
Yes, that is in spite of the Opposition and in spite of its persistent efforts to score short term political points at the long term expense of people employed in the industry. In particular there is the prospect for expansion and demand in the latter half of the year. The personal income tax reductions that have been introduced by the Government should underpin consumption spending and thereby contribute to an expansion of motor vehicle sales, if the Opposition helps the Government to create a climate in which people can have confidence in the future. Chrysler Australia Ltd has constantly expressed its confidence in its future as a result of the rationalisation measures it is adopting and which were recommended by the Opposition. But in fact it is the Opposition which is saying that the Chrysler company is in financial trouble. Improving market conditions, combined with continuing moderation in production costs should lead to better profit performance than in the past 12 months. 
Before describing in greater detail some of the Government's policies- these will be described by the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  as well- in the light of the comments made by the honourable member for Adelaide I have to say that these problems which we are now facing in the motor vehicle industry have not just begun and, more particularly, did not begin with the coming to power of the Fraser Government. 
I do not want to bore the House by reciting some of the difficulties which were inflicted by the previous Labor Government, but I am bound to ask the House to recall that the inflationary spiral created by the Labor Government's policies, combined with the credit squeeze of 1974, led to massive retrenchments and a virtual collapse of industry confidence. The House will also recall that the wage explosion generated by our predecessors destroyed, to all intents and purposes, the international competitiveness of the industry. We had great exports in this industry all around the world, now we have practically none at all. To illustrate my point, award wages for assemblers in the Australian motor vehicle industry rose by 35 per cent in the 12 months to June 1975, compared with increases in earnings for similar work in the United States of about 5 per cent for the same period. The dramatic increase in costs, aggravated by withdrawal of export incentives, led to a virtual cessation of exports of motor vehicles from Australia which by 1972 had risen to a level of 19,543 units. In addition, the rapid escalation in the level of interest rates added substantially to the purchasing costs of motor vehicles and compounded the effects of recession on vehicle sales. 
As well as the serious impact of economic mismanagement on the viability of the motor vehicle manufacturing sector, particular policies were adopted that caused disruption on an almost unprecedented scale. The honourable member for Higgins asked by way of interjection: 'What about the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut?' That certainly had a direct consequence in the retrenchment of thousands of employees in the industry. Most members of the Opposition wince at the mention of that, but in fact it is very important to remind the House of that today when we talk of relatively fewer retrenchments than were experienced in those days. 
The Labor Government showed itself incapable of coming to grips with the fundamental economic problems that were at the heart of the depression in the motor vehicle industry. It chose instead to adopt short-sighted and ineffectual measures such as temporary reductions in the rates of sales tax. These reductions did nothing more than artificially bring forward sales of motor vehicles which resulted in a consequential sales downturn later in the same year. In addition, they led directly to a fall-off in demand for other consumer goods, such as white goods. 
The present Government has moved effectively to try to strengthen the motor vehicle industry and to strengthen manufacturing generally. In the first place, the economic strategy that has been held in place over the past two years has led to a fundamental improvement in business conditions generally. Those conditions would be better still if the Opposition decided at last to try to encourage a better spirit and a better approach to the difficult problems facing investors and the industry's work force rather than to adopt its present policy. In fact, economic prospects are better now than they have been for at least five years. The fundamental distortions affecting the economy when the present Government came to office in late 1975 are gradually being worked out of the system. Some of those problems were easy to create; some were gradual. We can solve them only gradually. 
The rate of inflation, as measured by changes in the consumer price index, was 8.2 per cent over the 12 months to the end of the March quarter of this year. For the first time since 1972 Australia has an annual rate of inflation below 10 per cent and one which is now broadly in line with the average of our major trading partners. Production, consumption and investment spending strengthened during the second half of last year. With inflation coming under control, it has been possible to make a start on bringing interest rates down. The outlook is for further reductions in the course of 1978. Business cost pressures overall, including the cost of finance, should continue to ease. The personal income tax reductions which have come into force, combined with a lowering of interests rates, should give stimulus to steady expansion in consumer demand. 
In short, there is now every reason to expect that non-farm product will improve in calendar year 1978. In the second place, and apart from general economic measures, the Government has implemented a well understood and workable motor vehicle policy following the detailed review that was initiated late in 1 975. Even if the Opposition does not understand that policy, it is clearly understood by all manufacturers. Manufacturers are making decisions in accordance with the Government's policy. The policy is being achieved through the 85 per cent company average local content plan. In the case of the established manufacturers the Government's policy allows for a reduced local content requirement which provides vehicle manufacturers with flexibility to rearrange product mixes and enables them to source a higher proportion of componentry from lower cost sources overseas. Manufacturers are in fact doing what the Opposition advocates they do, and they are doing it in accordance with Government policy. 
If a high level of imports or import orders occurs and this level is not achieved, significant disruption to employment and the viability of companies is likely to occur. At present quantitative restrictions operate to support this policy. By all accounts the policy was in breach in June 1977. As a result, the Government introduced import quotas for six months and, following the report of the Industries Assistance Commission in October 1977, these quotas are to continue until the end of 1979. It cannot be said that the Government has not taken measures designed to protect the Australian motor vehicle industry. It must be said that ad hoc decisions made every few months will not improve the stability of the framework within which decisions are made. 
I stress that the Government's policies for the motor vehicle industry are designed to provide a framework in which normal commercial forces can operate. It is not for the Government to guarantee every company in every industry the right to exist nor to guarantee every worker at every plant in every industry a right to exist. It is our task to adopt overall policies which enable decisions to be made so that maximum manufacturing activity may occur in Australia with maximum productivity improvement and maximum possible employment levels. This we have done in respect of the motor vehicle industry. We monitor it constantly. It will always be our desire to make sure that we maintain the highest possible level of consumer demand and employment in that sector. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, might I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this BUI I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering the Bill, the Estate Duty Amendment Bill, the Gift Duty Assessment Amendment Bill and the Gift Duty Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the four Bills to be discussed in this one debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply provided by the Prime Minister to Question No. 468 which appeared in  Hansard (page 978) on 4 April  1978. 
-The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has authorised me to say a few words on his behalf to close this debate. I should say, first of all, perhaps as a member of this House rather than as a Minister, that this debate and the previous debate on taxation measures, have been two of the most interesting debates to take place for quite some time. I think we do not get as much opportunity for constructive debate of difficult matters as we would like in this chamber. With a couple of exceptions, I feel the tone of the debate has been one of real comprehension of the difficulties in taxation matters. I do not wish, therefore, to be provocative in my remarks, although it did seem to me that a couple of the newer members of the Opposition forgot some of the moderation that was injected into the debate by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  regarding the difficulties involved in what he saw as the total taxation situation. 
The honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  asked the Treasurer three questions. The Treasurer has authorised me to comment on each of those questions. First, the honourable member for Lilley said that he should like the Treasurer to indicate the extent of the loss of income tax revenue that will result from gifts of property between husbands and wives by reason of the abolition of gift duty. Secondly, he asked whether the Treasurer would consider changing the income tax law so that husbands and wives will each bear tax on one-half of the combined income as a means of cutting down the potential losses of revenue. Thirdly, he asked whether the 
Treasurer would arrange for the Treasury and Taxation Office to make an estimate over three years of the loss of income tax revenue resulting from the abolition of duty. The answer from the Treasurer is: 
It is inevitable that there will be an increase in income tax revenue losses as a consequence of the abolition of gilt duty but the extent of the increase will be hard to gauge because there has been substantial tax minimisation in the incomesplitting category during the life of the gift duty law. It would be hard to distinguish cases of asset transfers resulting from the abolition of the duty from cases that would have occurred anyway. 
The suggestion about combining incomes of husbands and wives and calling upon each for half of the tax is one of various forms of family unit taxation that have been canvassed from time to time. Observations by the Asprey Committee about family unit taxation is one aspect of its report that the Government has yet to consider. I will certainly arrange for the honourable member's suggestion to be borne in mind in that context. A check will be made with the Treasury and the Tax Office to determine whether it would be practicable to implement monitoring arrangements to facilitate the suggested three year estimate. 
That suggestion comes from the Treasurer as a result of the constructive contribution to this debate by the honourable member for Lilley. 
I should like now to make some general comments. The honourable member for Tangney  (Mr Shack)  referred today to some of the remarks of two of the Opposition speakers as suggesting that the Opposition was still a party of high taxation. He also made some observations which are relevant to the remarks of the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe),  to the effect that the honourable member was concerned to relate the level of taxation to the level of expenditure. It was the contention of the honourable member for Batman that as a community we are not over taxed. Honourable members on the Government side of the House contended that as a community we are over taxed. Certainly the Government says that we are and the Opposition says that we are not. On that aspect, one is bound to say that one has to look at the Opposition's total expenditure proposals. If the Opposition still maintains that it is to be a party of high expenditure then it has to be a party of high taxation. One must recall their endeavour to tax so-called unearned income and remember some of the ways in which the Opposition when in government had its fingers burnt when it attacked that method of tax collection. 
A few other comments are in order with regard to the general suggestions of a so-called capital gains tax. First, reference was made to the Asprey Committee and to a possible wealth tax. In respect of a wealth tax the Asprey Committee said that an efficient annual levy upon wealth would involve administrative problems of insuperable difficulty and would be extremely costly to collect. The Asprey Committee made recommendations regarding a capital gains tax but these have not been finally evaluated. No doubt the Treasurer will take note of the remarks of all honourable members who took part in this debate, especially from the Opposition side of the House those of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  It should be recalled that in 1974 the Labor Government announced its intention to introduce a capital gains tax. In January 1975 it announced that it would not, after all, proceed with that proposal. There was no suggestion then that that was a temporary decision. If one listened to some of the debate this afternoon one would have thought that the instant the Labor Party came back into power it would not only re-introduce estate duty but also go ahead with a capital gains measure. If one looks at the Press release of the former Prime Minister it is quite evident why the former government decided not to proceed. That Press release implies that the introduction of a capital gains tax would in fact provide a further set back to business confidence. It is worth reminding the House that on 29 January 1975 the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  said: 
The Government has decided on an important measure to provide a further boost to business confidence, and to stimulate private investment. 
Cabinet decided today that it would not proceed with the capital gains tax which was announced as part of the Budget measures on 17 September last year. 
The decision follows consideration by Cabinet in the past two days of a general review of the economy. 
Although the capital gains tax measure was announced in principle last September, no legislation has been introduced to implement it. 
Thorough investigation of the proposal has shown that considerable difficulties are associated with such a measure at a time of inflation. 
Although the Government is proud of its record in bringing down the rate of inflation, it is still not satisfied that compared with our major trading partners we are in a strongly placed position. The former Prime Minister's Press statement continued: 
The Government is also concerned at the downturn which has been evident in private investment, and it is aiming, with this decision, to provide the basis for a revival in investment. 
Private investment is essential for the welfare of the economy and the maintenance of full employment. The Government considered that it was essential for the maintenance of full employment that it take steps to assure the private sector that it will receive adequate rates of return on investment. 
My point in quoting that Press release is to indicate the discovery that the Labor Party made in government about the need for a healthy private  sector, the need for investment and the need to remove tax disincentives to investment. Yet at least some Opposition members have indicated a complete ignorance of the lessons learned by the Labor Party when it was in power. One additional point that ought to be made relates to estate and gift duties. The Government is satisfied that the reasons for the abolition given in the Prime Minister's policy speech are appropriate to justify this legislation. Both sides of Parliament when in government have found some aspects of estate duty unsatisfactory and both sides have eased the situation by legislation. The Labor Government did that in respect of matrimonial homes passing to surviving spouses. The Government believes that the amendment drawn was a clumsy one. The Government has since replaced it with a broader and more rational form of relief. However, there still remain some of the effects of this duty which the Government considers must go and which justify its eventual removal. In concluding these remarks one can ask only: Would the Opposition re-introduce estate duty and would it introduce a capital gains tax? If so, honourable members and the community are entitled to know in what form. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I was not aware that the Conference was a sell-out but I am delighted that it is. I am not surprised because I believe that people throughout Australia want to see a diminution of confrontation and a great improvement in labour-management relations as they do, 1 think, in every area of human relations. With regard to the Federal Government's attitude, I believe that our policy, which we have stated here and which was stated in the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General, is a sensible one for a national government. If we are going to make progress in this area it will be at the grass roots. It will be at every plant and at every office. It can be guided by State governments much more easily than by the Federal Government. Our role is to try to co-ordinate the activities and to try to make sure that in this very difficult area people do not go off with half-baked ideas but in fact understand the same terms in the same manner and try to achieve the moderating progress to which the honourable member has referred. I believe we are well placed to do that but we certainly are not well placed, as a Federal Government, to impose things on people at the grass roots. Our role is to act as a catalyst and to co-ordinate activities. We are doing that. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments in 1976-77 as shown in the accounting records of the Department of Productivity were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I understand all Departments were approached by the Administrative Review Council and requested to supply the information to which the honourable member refers. The Department of Productivity responded to the request and provided relevant information. Under legislation for which I am responsible there are no tribunals created, administered or serviced which should be included in the list given at Appendix III of the Administrative Review Council 's report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. This was a most valuable opportunity to demonstrate our Australian aircraft to  Mr Engle,  who is a leading operator of aircraft in Canada. While the aircraft was in Canberra on 2 May it was also demonstrated to several other people. These included a representative of an overseas government which is a potential customer for the aircraft, Department of Trade and Resources officers concerned with promoting export sales of Nomad, and Department of Transport officers concerned with coastal surveillance. 
and (3) Very close liaison exists between the Minister for Defence and myself, and our two departments, and I have no doubt that Nomad will be used by the Defence Services wherever it is suitable. The Prime Minister is as anxious as I am to ensure that Australian products are used to the fullest possible extent by the Commonwealth Government, its departments and authorities. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, and the two related Bills, namely, the Statutory Rules Publication Amendment Bill and the Seat of Government (Administration) Amendment Bill are intended to deal with a situation that has arisen because there have been occasions when copies of regulations and other statutory rules and ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory have not been available for purchase, at the place specified in the notice in the  Gazette  of the making of the ordinances or statutory rules, at the time the notice was published. 
The validity of such notices in these circumstances has been raised in proceedings in the High Court in respect of alleged offences against the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations and the purpose of the Ordinances and Regulations (Notification) Bill is to remove the possibility of invalidity flowing from the unavailability of copies. In the particular case, the offences in question occurred more than a year after copies were, in fact, available. The point in that case is, consequently, a technical one, and the Government is greatly concerned about the effect of its success. If successful a whole range of regulations and ordinances would be struck down. However, the Bill expressly provides that the validation it provides for is not to affect existing prosecutions under the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, thus excluding the High Court proceedings referred to from the scope of the Bill. Those regulations will nevertheless be validated for the future so that in any new proceedings the technical point will not be available as a possible defence. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Whilst the Ordinances and Regulations (Notification) Bill will 'validate' any existing ordinances and statutory rules that might conceivably have otherwise been held invalid, this Bill is directed, as is the Seat of Government (Administration) Amendment Bill, to achieving a more satisfactory situation for the future. In summary, it provides: 
copies of statutory rules are to be made available for purchase at the time a notice of their making is published in the  Gazette,  or as soon as practicable thereafter, at the place or places specified in the nonce; 
where there are no copies available for purchase on the date of publication of the notice, the Minister for Administrative Services is to lay before each House of the Parliament, within 15 sitting days, a statement explaining why copies were not available; 
failure to comply with these two requirements is not, however, to result in invalidity of the notice or of the statutory rules. 
The effect of the Bill will be to ensure for the future, so far as is practicable, that copies of statutory rules are available for purchase at the time of notification, while recognising that special cases will arise where subordinate legislation has to be made to have immediate operation, notwithstanding that copies are not immediately available for purchase. The Bill ensures that Parliament will be informed of cases where copies are not available on the date of notification and of the reason for this. Honourable members will appreciate that the provisions made by the Bill in relation to the future position will be more satisfactory than the existing position. A positive direction to have copies available at the time of notification is provided for, supported by a requirement to explain any failure to do so to the Parliament. At the same time, the validity of subordinate legislation will not be in jeopardy on a technical ground. I believe the provisions included in the Bill will result in the best practical solution to the difficulties that have arisen. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill makes, in relation to the notification of ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory, provisions for the future corresponding to those contained in the Statutory Rules Publications Amendment Bill. As in the case of the latter Bill in relation to notification of statutory rules, the provisions made by the Seat of Government (Administration) Amendment Bill will result in a more satisfactory position in relation to notification of ordinances of the Australian Capital Territory. A positive direction to have copies available at the time of notification is provided for, supported by a requirement to explain any failure to do so to the Parliament. At the same time, the validity of subordinate legislation will not be in jeopardy on a technical ground. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Acts Interpretation Amendment Bill is the first of the set of Bills relating to the December 
Administrative changes. The Bill plugs a small gap which has been found in the provisions inserted in the Acts Interpretation Act in 1976 to facilitate translation of references to Ministers following administrative changes. It will be of assistance in future Administrative changes. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Administrative Changes (Consequential Provisions) Bill, together with the Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve Amendment Bill which I shall deal with separately, makes necessary textual changes in legislation following the administrative changes of 20 December 1977, and writes into the statute book the 'deemed' changes made by the Orders under section 19B and 19BA of the Acts Interpretation Act made on and after that date. 
The Schedules to the Administrative Changes (Consequential Provisions) Bill specify some 550 separate amendments of some 180 Acts which need to be made because of the ministerial and departmental changes made following the election last year. It is important that these changes be made so that the proper references will appear on the face of the respective Acts and not merely left to follow from a general 'translation' provision in Orders under the Acts Interpretation Act. 
With a few minor exceptions, the amendments made by the Bill and its Schedules merely give effect to the Orders that were made under the Acts Interpretation Act or make associated amendments which were not able to be made by such Orders, for example, renaming the body corporate established by section 62B(2) of the Audit Act. In one or two cases other minor administrative changes that have been agreed as desirable have been made, for example, in the case of the Criminology Research Act, the reference to the Treasurer in one provision- section 28 (4)- has been changed to a reference to the Attorney-General. 
The Bill provides for a number of saving provisions that are necessary because of the change from Treasurer to Minister for Finance, particularly in the Audit Act and in Regulations and Directions under that Act. Because of the extensive ramifications of the Audit Act and those Regulations and Directions throughout the whole fabric of the control of finances, it is vital that these saving provisions be made. 
The Bill makes provision for the various Orders under the Acts Interpretation Act to which the changes made by the Bill relate to cease to apply except in relation to Regulations or Directions. The reason for this is that all the amendments of Acts that are necessary should have been identified and dealt with in the Schedules of the Bill. All departments have been consulted to ensure this. However, there could be some provisions of Regulations or Directions that have not yet been identified and these will need to be dealt with by amending Regulations or Directions when they are identified. 
The provisions made by the Bill I am sure will commend themselves to honourable members. As I have indicated, they are of a machinery nature and will up-date the statute book. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Everingham)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a secondtime. 
The Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve Amendment Bill makes some provisions which were found necessary in consequence of the changes in the administration of the Audit Act and are supplementary to those made by the Administrative Changes (Consequential Provisions) Bill. It has been thought better to place these supplementary provisions in a separate Bill. 
The December Order under section 19BA of the Acts Interpretation Act and the confirming changes now being made to section 62B of the Audit Act by the Administrative Changes (Consequential Provisions) Bill would, if no special provision were made, have the effect of transferring power of investment of moneys standing to the credit of the Reserve from the Treasurer to the Minister for Finance. The Loan Consolidation and Investment Reserve Amendment Bill makes such special provision. It proposes to ensure that the Treasurer will continue to have full responsibility for the Reserve, and to that end provides specific investment powers for the Treasurer and creates a separate corporationconsisting of the Treasurer and his successors. The Minister for Finance will, however, continue to be able to invest in treasury bills moneys of the Reserve that are not required by the Treasurer for investment or other purposes. By virtue of the Bill, the Reserve will cease to be a Trust Account under section 62A of the Audit Act, but will remain part of the trust Fund. The Bill includes some necessary saving and machinery provisions, including a power of delegation by the Treasurer in respect of his powers under section 6- investment of the Reserve- corresponding with the power to delegate already given to the Minister for Finance by section 70a of the Audit Act. Like the Administrative Changes (Consequential Provisions) Bill, the provisions made by this Bill are of a machinery nature, designed to give effect to the December administrative changes. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
I am aware of the fact that bush pilots are flying the Nomad daily in the honourable member's electorate. I am also very aware that there is great customer popularity for the Nomad aircraft in that electorate. I did not see the television film in question, but I understand that the Australian Broadcasting Commission did endeavour to present a most informative, balanced and entertaining program. But it created in the minds of some people the thought that the Nomad is in some way not safe. This was apparently because the program highlighted the fact that during the Nomad 's history there had been an experiment with a certain type of wing which had led to a serious accident in 1976. The program featured a flight engineer,  Mr Larcey,  who had been injured in the accident. In fact the program aimed to show that  Mr Larcey  still has full confidence in the Nomad and that he and his wife have no recriminations at all. 
The experimental modifications were abandoned after that accident. There has never been any safety problem with those production aircraft which had been delivered, nor will there be. 
The Department of Transport in Australia and the Federal Aviation Administration in the United States of America have the highest standards of safety and the Nomad conforms to those in all respects. I assure the House that no one who intends purchasing a Nomad or who intends flying in one need have any fears about its safety in any respect. Extensive testing is being done constantly by the Government Aircraft Factories and by the Aeronautical Research Laboratories. With regard to our world prospects, at the moment we are flying the Nomad aircraft in India with a view to selling it there. In other parts of the world our prospects look very good. There is no question about the safety of the aircraft. 
-Nobody in this House, after the work of the honourable member for Denison and his colleagues, could be unaware of the plight of Tasmania. As it happens, the Leader of the Opposition of the Tasmanian Parliament made a special trip to Canberra this week and saw the Acting Prime Minister and the Minister for National Development on this very subject and he also had a discussion with me. I can assure the honourable member that the Government will do all that it can to ensure that, if possible, the talents, experience and skills in Tasmania are utilised when we enter the production stage of the InterScan program. I must caution the honourable member that that could be some time away. We have established the very kind of consortium which he has mentioned- InterScan Australia- to act as the company to enter into international commercial negotiations. When those negotiations are concluded, I trust that there will be some work for a number of Australian companies, and certainly the Government will have very seriously in mind the role that Tasmania might play in that. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A considerable range of assistance is available to small business, aimed mainly at helping individual firms, or groups of firms, by advice and collaborative programs to improve their efficiency and productivity. Research facilities as such are not provided, except to the extent necessary to support the various programs in which the Department and firms are together involved. 
One significant channel of contact for small business is the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia (PPCA), through which the Working Environment Division of my Department (located in Melbourne), supports enterprise productivity improvement without discrimination as to the size of firms. Indeed, a number of programs are specifically oriented toward assisting the small firm, especially in services designed to promote the development of small business management skills and techniques for unit cost reduction. 
Specific programs available through the PPCA are: productivity improvement team service, to help small companies plan cost reduction, industry sector working circles, aimed to identify cost and productivity factors beyond the capacity of individual firms to deal with alone, an information service, included in which are specific small business management publications, audiovisuals and films, et cetera, small business management training programs, productivity achievement programs for supervisors and operators, small business liaison, with State Government small business agencies. 
The Working Environment Division is represented in my Department's offices in each of the capital cities, and is available for consultation and inquiry on any of the above services. 
Other services are provided by means of: the National Materials Handling Bureau, located at Ryde, New South Wales, which encourages and assists industry at all levels, through project and ad hoc advisory services, to achieve productivity improvement through better handling, packaging and distribution practices, inter-firm comparison studies which enable firms to compare their performance with other firms, consultative services to industry to complement the inter-firm comparison services, development of a computerised simulation model to help the small business operator, encouraging labour/management co-operation, development and dissemination of Codes of Practice in the field of Occupational Safety and Health, specific industry productivity programs to identify and implement ways of improving the productivity and competitiveness of particular industries, development of a model cost reduction program for adoption by medium to small businesses. 
This latter group of services, including the activities of the National Materials Handling Bureau, is the responsibility of the Productivity Development Division in my Department's central office in Canberra. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Government has decided to implement the Code of General Principles on Occupational Safety and Health in Commonwealth Government Employment. The Government has also approved procedures for dealing with the associated Codes of Practice. As the Code of General Principles is a complete document in itself, progress continued to be made- prior to the Government's decision- by drawing up a number of Codes of Practice covering particular subjects such as machine guarding, explosives, power tools, materials handling, welding, and cranes. I draw the honourable member's attention to the Press statement of 14 May 1 978 by the Prime Minister which contained further information on this subject. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following departments are represented on the Committee: 
Prime Minister and Cabinet (Chair) 
Business and Consumer Affairs 
Primary Industry 
Transport 
Defence. 
and (3) On 17 January 1978 the Government directed that the Permanent Heads of the designated departments report to Government on the general question of the present approach to coastal surveillance, including strategy, equipment and use of the RAN and RAAF. 
The report by Permanent Heads has been submitted to the Government, and an announcement of the Government's decisions was made on 9 July 1 978. 
Expenditure on Urban and Regional Development and the Environment (Question No. 678) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) seventy-three. 
$10,806.62. 
Commonwealth Land in Lalor Division (Question No. 644) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill represents the first of a number of proposed changes to Australian industrial property legislation which I hope to introduce into the Parliament later in the session. The legislation will be aimed at better adapting industrial property legislation and catering for the practical needs of Australian industry and commerce. The initial changes are particularly intended to modify and extend the scope of existing legislation to encourage increased industrial productivity through innovation and improved commercial competitiveness. 
At the turn of this century Australia had achieved a high level of innovative activity. The necessities created by a different geographical environment and worsening economic conditions lead to outstanding and profitable inventions in the agricultural field. Innovative activity not only improves productivity but more importantly it creates new employment opportunities. I see my portfolio as having a major role to play in the development of a climate in Australia which is more conducive to innovation having direct industrial application and this I see as the main purpose of a patent system. 
The ownership of inventions, trade marks and designs creates important monopoly rights recognised to a greater or lesser degree in most countries. Laws in Australia in the past have tended to concentrate on the narrow legal issues of the regulation and grant of those monopoly rights. Little attention has been given to benefits which may accrue to an industrialised society by the existence or non-existence of industrial property laws. I have been concerned at this apparent lack of a coherent policy in developing industrial property laws relevant to Australia's present and future industrial capacity. For this reason I have established an Industrial Property Advisory Committee which comprises industry, technical and economics representation. This Committee is an ongoing body which will undertake a continuous review of our industrial property laws and practices and advise me on proposals to reform industrial property laws and practices. 
The present Bill involves a change in the current provisions of the Patents Act 1952 governing the publication of Australian patent specifications in order to reduce the period during which the information contained in those documents is unavailable to the Australian public. The primary purpose of that change is to encourage a positive approach to invention by Australian industry by providing it with earlier access than is presently available to the technical developments which are the subject of an application for patent protection in this country. 
Currently, approximately 11,000 effective patent applications are lodged in Australia annually in respect of inventions made both in this country and overseas. Each application includes a document- the so-called complete specification- containing a full description of the technological advance made by the inventor and, additionally, a definition of the scope of the patent monopoly claimed by the applicant. Under the present legislation, a complete specification is not required to be published until 18 months after the date of lodgment of that document at the Patent Office. As the legislation also provides that a complete specification need not be lodged until 12 months after the filing of an Australian application for a patent or the filing of an earlier foreign application for protection of the same invention, the present provision for the publication of complete specifications involves a delay of up to  2Vi  years during which information on technological developments considered sufficiently important by their owners to be made the subject of patent protection is unavailable to Austraiian industry. Moreover, even if information of such developments is obtainable from other sources, industries interested in commercially exploiting such developments, are unable during that period to determine whether they are entitled to do so without infringing an Australian patent. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m.  (Quorum formed). 
The present provisions in the Patents Act for the publication - 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill represents a major initiative by the Government in developing the Australian industrial property system to enable that system more adequately to fulfil its basic function as a machanism for encouraging and assisting industrial development and commercial activity. The specific area of industrial property with which the Bill is concerned is trade marks and the purpose of the Bill is to amend the Trade Marks Act 1955 to extend the business and commercial activities within which trade marks may be used in order to qualify for the statutory protection provided by registration under that Act. 
Currently, the Trade Marks Act is limited to the registration of marks which are used or intended to be used in the course of trade for the purpose of identifying the goods of a person entitled to use a particular mark and distinguishing those goods from the corresponding goods of competitors. This Bill will extend the scope of the protection provided by that Act by permitting the registration of marks which are used in the course of trade to identify and distinguish the services supplied by a particular business. In providing for the registration of marks used in connection with services, the Bill will remove an undesirable gap in Australian trade mark legislation which has seriously disadvantaged an important segment of Australian business. 
As honourable members will appreciate, trade marks have become an important factor in restricting unfair trading and encouraging trade expansion through competition. In this context, mark' is used in a generic sense and includes not only such things as symbols but also names, words, letters and numerals. The provision of statutory protection for trade marks used in respect of goods has assisted the traders involved by providing sufficiently easily enforceable proprietorial rights to discourage unfair trading. Similarly, the exclusion from such protection of trade marks which are incapable of distinguishing the goods of a particular trader or which are likely to deceive or cause confusion has assisted consumers by discouraging consumer deception. 
Commercial activities, however, are not confined to trade in goods. The provision of business and professional services, such as transportation, repair, banking, insurance and entertainment constitutes an important segment of modern commerce and the individual businesses engaged in such services have the same needs as other businesses in identifying and distinguishing their services. On 26 January 1978, I announced the Government's proposal to introduce statutory protection for trade marks used in relation to services. That announcement received unqualified approval by service industries and industry organisations. The present Bill is intended to implement the Government's proposal in this matter. 
Prior to this Bill, successive Australian trade marks Acts have recognised as trade marks only marks used, or proposed to be used, in relation to goods. This restriction was a legacy of British trade mark legislation and initially reflected the relative insignificance of business and industrial services at the date of the transfer to the Commonwealth of the power to legislate in this field. The limitation of the concept of registrable trade marks to marks used in relation to goods has been a continuing feature of British trade mark legislation which has been reflected in the corresponding Australian legislation. The limitation, however, has disadvantaged those businesses offering services and using a mark to distinguish their particular service from the corresponding services of competitors. In the absence of statutory protection, such businesses have been forced to rely on their common law rights based on the reputation achieved by their marks. 
The question of the introduction in Great Britain of statutory protection for marks used in relation to services was considered by a departmental committee on British trade mark law and practice which was established in 1972 and reported in 1973. That committee received evidence from all the main organisations representing industry, trade, commerce and the professions, all of which were uniformly in favour of extending the British Trade Marks Act to provide for the registration of marks used for distinguishing services. The committee recommended inter alia, that the British Trade Marks Act should be amended to permit the registration of marks used, or proposed to be used, for distinguishing services offered in the course of trade or business and that the provisions relating to goods should apply so far as feasible to marks for services. 
Extension of the trade marks recognised by statute to include marks used in relation to services has already been effected in the trade marks legislation of a substantial number of countries. In the United States of America, the Lanham Trademark Act of 1946 included service marks as entitled to statutory protection under that Act. In addition to the United States, 42 other countries including major industrial countries, such as France, Italy, Sweden, Canada and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and neighbouring countries, such as the Philippines, Taiwan and Korea, had by the end of 1970 introduced legislation providing statutory protection for marks for services. In this respect therefore Australia lags behind many of the countries with which it maintains extensive trade relations. 
The absence in Australia of statutory protection for marks for services has significant consequences for Australian businesses operating services in overseas countries. Under the legislation of a number of countries, the entitlement of foreign businesses to statutory protection for marks used in relation to services is conditional upon the provision of corresponding statutory protection in the country of" origin of those businesses. Accordingly, the absence of statutory protection in Australia for marks for services constitutes a basis in a number of countries for refusing Australian owners of marks for services entitlement to register their marks in those countries. Australian businesses can thus be significantly disadvantaged in relation to those competitors able to obtain statutory protection for their trade marks. 
Until recently, it has been generally accepted that the Commonwealth constitutional power to legislate in respect of trade marks did not extend to marks used in relation to services. An early judgment of the High Court, in the Union Label case in 1908, concluded that the Commonwealth legislative powers in respect of trade marks did not extend to marks applied to goods to identify the source of labour employed by the manufacturers of those goods. On the basis of that judgment, it has since been accepted that the Commonwealth was not empowered to legislate in respect of marks used in connection with the provision of services. The Government, however, has recently been informed by its legal advisers that that conclusion is not consistent with interpretations of the Constitution by the High Court of Australia subsequent to the Union Label case and that the trade marks provision of section 51 (xviii) of the Constitution does, in fact, empower the Commonwealth to legislate in respect of marks used to identify and distinguish services. This Bill therefore will implement that power by including trade marks used in relation to services as registrable trade marks under the Trade Marks Act. 
The main purpose of the Bill is achieved, firstly, by the extension of the definition of a trade mark' in section 6 of the principal Act to include marks used, or proposed to be used, in connection with services as marks constituting trade marks under the Act. Trade marks for services therefore are intended to be treated on an equal footing with trade marks for goods. Secondly, the Bill extends the provisions of the principal Act to trade marks for services by amending where appropriate the references to 'goods' to include 'goods or services'. 
The Bill also recognises the corresponding potential for conflict between substantially identical or deceptively similar marks used by different proprietors in relation to services or services and goods as is recognised in the present Act in respect of trade marks used in relation to goods. The Bill avoids such conflict by extending the present prohibition against the registration of substantially identical or deceptively similar trade marks in respect of goods to services and introducing a prohibition against the registration of such marks in respect of goods and closely related services, and vice versa. 
Finally, under the principal international industrial property agreement to which Australia is a party, this country is required to undertake to protect service marks. Although that obligation does not extend to a commitment to provide for the registration of service marks, there has been a long established trend by the other countries subscribing to that agreement to provide statutory protection for service marks. This Bill is therefore consistent with international trends in the protection of marks used in relation to services. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are three statutory authorities for which I have responsibility. These are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. The Government decided early in 1977 that all Commonwealth employee food services would be operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. Handover of these services to the company was completed on 13.11.77. However, in 1976-77 the cafeterias listed in (4) were operated by my department. 
Commonwealth employee food services are required to operate on a self-supporting financial basis, within the division of costs prescribed in Treasury (Finance) Directions, Section 8. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Government expenditure on the development and promotion of the InterScan Microwave Landing System to the end of the 1977-78 fiscal year is $7.0m. $6.0m of this was for the technical development of InterScan to meet the operational requirements drawn up by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) leading to its submission and selection as the system of the future. In parallel with the later stages of the technical development program, Australian industry was funded- initially by the Department of Industry and Commerce and later by the Department of Productivity- to carry out a$l.0m program aimed at the commercial exploitation of InterScan. 
) No. However, I understand that the US Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) has spent $US78.8m up to June of this year on research, development and promotion of various microwave landing systems. 
The direct return to the Government from the manufacture of InterScan in Australia has not been estimated. The microwave landing system world market is estimated to be some $2000m. Australia's present technological developments have placed it in a strong position to receive a substantive share of this market with the InterScan system. 
A direct benefit of the InterScan project is the acceptance internationally of a system suited to Australian aviation requirements. Substantial benefits in the form of increased export earnings and long-term employment prospects will also be realised as the result of the decision to complete the development and manufacture of InterScan within Australian industry. A further most important benefit is the opportunity to supply 'turn-key' systems of airport facilities and navigation aids including InterScan to Middle East and South East Asian countries. The potential worth of these systems could be many hundreds of million dollars. 
Yes, my attention has been drawn to  Mr Benjamin's  statement and yes, the Government intends to take a central role. The total cost to put InterScan on the world market will be around$1 5m. Government approval has been given to a joint government/industry program for the commercial development of InterScan and the Government will contribute some $8m in the three year engineering development phase. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce and I will be arranging special briefings for Australian industry to keep it informed of opportunities arising from this program. 
Yes, as a result of the earlier programs aimed at the commercial exploitation of InterScan the Government was in a position to immediately arrange engineering development programs and undertake commercial arrangements which will lead to significant manufacturing activity in Australia. A new company InterScan Australia Pry Ltd has already been established for this purpose. 
See(7). 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My Depanment has provided the following information. The figures for 1976 are for the full year and include details covering elements of the Departments of Industry and Commerce, Employment and Industrial Relations, Business and Consumer Affairs, and Transport which were brought together to establish the Department of Productivity, and whose leave records are held by the Department. 
(a) 1976-$376,700; (b) 1977-$367,970; (c) 1978-$157,694(to31 May 1978). 
329,687 hours. 
1976-50; 1977-70; 1978-16. 
( 1976) first-$329,093, second-$44,567, third-$3,040; (1977) first-$3 1 5,696, second-$50,739, third-$l,535; (1978) first- $133,956, second-$23,738, third- nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) In respect of offices occupied by my department and statutory authorities for which I am responsible, and which are under the control of the Department of Administrative Services, arrangements for the collection and disposal of waste paper are made by that Department. In this regard I would refer the honourable member to the reply provided by the Minister for Administrative Services to Question No. 1437  (Hansard,  page 334,15 August 1978). 
In various factories operated by my department separate arrangements have been made for the sale of waste paper for recycling, where this has been found to be practicable. 
There is negligible generation of glass and metal waste in the offices of the department and, consequently, no arrangements are made for recycling these materials. However, all factories with metal working facilities recycle ferrous and non-ferrous scrap metal usually by sale. Some factories reuse appropriate metals in their own casting facilities. Only one factory generates sufficient waste glass to warrant recycling and this is done. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 

Former Commonwealth Lands in the New Hebrides  (Question No. 1892) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bounty (Metal- working Machine Tools) Bill 1978 is to give effect to the Government's decision to provide assistance, by way of a revised bounty scheme, to the metal working machine tools industry in Australia. Honourable members will be aware that assistance, by way of bounty, at the rate of one-third of the factory cost of the machine, is currently accorded to the manufacture in Australia of certain machine tools and drilling machines under the Metal Working Machine Tools Act 1 972 and the Bounty (Drilling Machines) Act 1978. 
Following advice from the Industries Assistance Commission in its report No. 155 of 23 December 1977 on metal working machine tools it has been decided that, in order to maintain at least the nucleus of a machine tool industry in Australia, the assistance currently provided is to continue and bounty assistance at the same rate is to be paid to Australian manufacturers of nonportable power operated metal working machine tools of the metal removing, forming or shearing type. It has also been decided, with a view to influencing the maintenance of design activity in Australia, that an additional bounty, at the rate of one-quarter of design costs incurred in Australia, will be paid to Australian manufacturers involved in the design of machines covered by the Bill. The revised scheme, which is to be operative as from 25 May 1978, will cease on 30 June 1984 or such later date as is fixed by proclamation. 
Clause 2 1 of the Bill continues the Government 's policy of expanding, wherever possible, the jurisdiction of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in relation to administrative decisions which affect the rights or entitlements of persons under Commonwealth legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bounty (Drilling Machines) Amendment Bill 1978 is to make consequential amendments of a transitional nature to the Bounty (Drilling Machines) Act 1978, phasing out the bounty scheme under this Act from 25 May 1978. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Amendment Bill 1978 is to make consequential amendments, of a transitional nature, to the Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Act 1 972, phasing out the bounty scheme under this Act from 25 May 1978. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
-The answer to the first two questions is yes. With respect to my own views, I will be having formal discussions shortly with the Minister for Transport. 
I have had informal discussions. Formal discussions are now appropriate. With respect to the last questions - 
I do not recall the final question. 
-The answer is yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) One hundred and twenty one persons are employed at the establishment, which is usually described as the Albion Explosives Factory. 
(a) High explosives, RDX, TNT and RDX/Tetryl; 
Double base gun propellants and extruded propellants; 
Acid treatment and concentration associated with high explosive manufacture; (d) Chemicals for propellants and detonators. 
The quantities of these products produced by the factory vary from time to time and are dependent on Defence munitions requirements. 
The sales value of production has been: 1972-73-$2.012m; 1973-74-$1.707m; 1974-75-$1.252m; 1 975-76-$ 1 . 370m; 1 976-77-$ 1 . 088m. 
Albion Explosives Factory is the only Department of Productivity establishment with a capability to manufacture high explosives of the RDX and TNT types. Other types of explosives and chemicals are maunufactured at the Explosives Factory, Maribyrnong and the Mulwala Explosives Factory. The scale of operation varies with the Defence demand. 
The Derrimut Explosives Storage area is used for long term storage of explosives and chemicals by the Department of Productivity. Explosives and chemicals are stored on a short term basis for Explosives Factory, Marbyrnong, Albion Explosives Factory and Ammunition Factory, Footscray. In addition Derrimut is used as a trans-shipment centre for Productivity explosives and explosive stores. 
Fourteen persons are employed at the Derrimut Explosives Storage Depot. 
The building floor area of 6,21 1.49 sq metres of which 54.5 per cent is currently utilised. The utilisation varies from time to time and is dependent on Defence munitions requirements. 
No. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Patents Amendment Bill 1978 as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
in reply-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  we certainly did not have quantity in this debate, but we did have quality. I thank the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  for his support on behalf of the Opposition of these measures and I particularly commend the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  for the contribution he made. He most ably replied to the one point of criticism which came from the Opposition and I will not detain the House by repeating what the honourable member so ably said. I do think it is important to stress that the two Bills will do a great deal to improve productivity and to stress again that they are by no means ad hoc, patchwork measures: They are very much part of a concerted program to make industrial property laws in Australia more outgoing and to make them not merely a protection of people's innovations, but to make them a source of information for other people to be innovative themselves, at least in the adaption of other people's inventions, if not in their own original inventions. 
I believe most strongly that the Trade Marks Amendment Bill, which provides for the introduction of a concept of trade marks in respect of services, will do a great deal to improve competition in Australia in the service sector. It will reward people who work up a business and who identify it with a logo, a symbol or some other mark and which currently has no legal protection afforded to it, although there is, of course, protection in respect of trademarks on goods. So we are now providing a much needed boost to the service sector so that people can mark their services, knowing that the symbol which they use will be protected by legislation in the same way as trade marks in respect of goods. The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  might have thought that he was not going to find this a riveting debate, but I think he would have found it so after listening to the two speakers who preceded him. 
The industrial property advisory committee, I believe, will be important to continue the work of updating and reviewing our industrial property laws. These measures, when taken in conjunction with the other measures- the industrial research and development grants, the export market development grants, the moves towards an information technology council, the making available of more information by the patents information service and the pilot programs in respect of technology transfer will improve the quality of innovation in Australia, the quality of competition and productivity improvement generally. 
The one point of criticism which came from the honourable member for Adelaide was that we have not indicated which industries ought to be developed and in which industries people ought to seek to get patents and to extend their services. We do have a White Paper on this matter. It is, as was the work of the Jackson Committee, aimed at encouraging exportoriented internationally competitive industries. I believe that the total of measures to which the honourable member for Herbert has referred and which are conducted by my Department will assist our industries to be that way. We do not believe that as a government we can impose on investors, on management decisions about where they should invest their capital and where they should do their research and development. We believe that we have an obligation to make the maximum information available to them and that with that knowledge they will respond to market trends, both domestic and international, as they assess them. 
As the honourable member for Herbert has said, we do have industry programming groups and we have advisory councils. These are all of a tripartite character. They are doing studies and they are applying their findings. They are getting what one might call micro-knowledge, which is instantly being translated into practice. At the same time this is providing a storehouse of information upon which the macro-thinking and planning, whether it be manpower planning or future research programs, can be built. We are approaching this in a most practical way from a government point of view, leaving the market to make its own practical decisions. I commend the Bills to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Motion (by  Mr Macphee,  on behalf of  Mr Sinclair)  agreed to: 
That this Bill be referred to a legislation committee for report by 26 October 1978. 
The debate on this matter has roamed far and wide. I did not intend to enter into the debate, and I will not stay in it very long. Let me make a couple of comments on matters raised. Firstly, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who it seems to me strayed a fair way from the matter of public importance, said that we need another inquiry into technological change, as suggested by the Leader of Opposition  (Mr Hayden);  yet in the next breath he said that we have too many inquiries pending and that the Government is saying that it cannot do anything until it has the recommendations of this or that inquiry. I venture to say that if we had pending another inquiry such as has been suggested we would find a general tendency in the community and in the Parliament to hold off action until the report of the inquiry had been received. 
One of the most important points to note is that a number of active policies of the Government are already being implemented. One such policy relates to the tyre industry. It was in respect of the tyre industry that this matter was raised today. I think it is important to note that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  acting with appropriate concern, not cynicism, of which he was accused by the Opposition, has raised a matter because he is concerned about the well-being of employees of a certain tyre company in Brisbane. 
-The honourable member should listen to me. I will tell him about the matter. The honourable member for Adelaide has said that the Government rests too much on the marketplace. We believe most strongly- this is a philosophical point- that the role of government is to create the climate in which sensible marketplace decisions can be made. It is not for governments to indicate which companies will remain in business, where and how big their market size will be, let alone precisely what the structure of a given industry will be. 
-The honourable member for Reid is right. That is the difference. We do not believe that people in Canberra can dictate the precise nature and structure or corporate and market size of a company, which the Opposition seems to believe it can do. We believe that we have created for the tyre industry a breathing space within which it can examine every aspect of its cost structure. It can examine its marketing methods, location of plant, layout of plant, human relations, engineering, technology and corporate structure. As we understand it, that is what the company about which the honourable member for Lilley complains has actually done. The company has offered its employees employment with the same company in other States. Of course, not all of them would be keen to move to another State at their time of life. One acknowledges that. But the company gave them three months warning of its decision to restructure its operations. The honourable member said that it did not happen because of a drop in demand but, in fact, that plant was built for crossply tyres and they are the diminished sector of the market. So within the tyre industry demand for the products of that plant has dropped. 
As a matter of policy, we have given the tyre industry temporary protection, with a clear request and an undertaking being given by the industry to enter into tripartite productivity improvement programs. That it has done. The management of the eight companies concerned, the unions and my department are working in a day by day study of the structural problems of the industry. We do not need a national inquiry into technology to understand what is happening in that industry. The eight people in management, the eight companies and the trade unions involved can see what shifts there are in the market forces, what shifts there are in the need for new technology, new systems of work, new plant layout, new location and even new corporate restructuring. These sorts of things are being tackled and inevitably, as a result of decisions made during the breathing space provided by extra protection, there will be some social and economic dislocation. I can only say that it would be infinitely greater if those moves were not taken. The Opposition would then be justified in being critical of the Government for upping the ante in terms of cost to the consumer and not delving into the deep structural problems which, in fact, exist. In fact, the industry is to be commended for recognising- one might say almost belatedly- very genuinely the problems which it has in a structural sense. The Government is giving it every assistance it can to face up to those problems. Of course we are concerned to minimise the dislocation as much as we can. It is a fact, and the honourable member for Lilley has pointed this out, that when companies decide to restructure they tend to move in a more centralised way. This means that States such as Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania have a problem. Our task, in conjunction with State governments, must be to try to make the climate attractive enough economically in those States- it is certainly attractive in other respects- in order to encourage investment in new industries there. It is one of the facts of life, and I believe we will see much more of it, that people in restructuring their product lines and relocating their factories will tend to centralise in Sydney and Melbourne. There may need to be some very positive initiatives from State governments to encourage industries to move to more country centres or to rationalise their plants in the capital cities or in other major cities in Queensland or South Australia. 
I did not intend to enter into this debate for very long, but it seemed important to me that there should be some statement from the Government in respect of the whole range of matters which has been raised. We believe that it is inevitable that there will be some economic dislocation as a result of restructuring. The restructuring proposals are being made by the industry itself. I think that in this case the information given to me suggests that the company has done as much as it could reasonably do in respect of its employees. Had it not done what it did I am afraid that in the end it would have caused greater dislocation to all concerned. 
I move: 
That the report of the Legislation Committee be adopted. 
I also remind the House that the Legislation Committee agreed to the Bill without amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the report of the Legislation Committee be adopted. 
I again remind the House that the Legislation Committee agreed to the Bill without amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I have taken extensive steps to communicate to industry the Budget allocation of $24m in this financial year for improved industrial research and development grants. In fact, I have sent out over 2,000 letters to companies which have previously received grants, I have made a number of Press releases in trade journals, and I am conducting at present seminars in all the capital cities, the first having been yesterday in Sydney, aimed at acquainting industry at first hand with the grants. We are effectively doubling the project grants and the commencement grants which help small businesses in particular to get new technology. We are introducing a new streamlined system that overcomes the problems which industry has complained of in the past. In addition, we are introducing new public interest grants to assist new industries to be created. 
It is our concern that the debate on technology has looked at the more negative effects of technology on employment when there are many positive impacts, not only by way of making our existing industries more competitive with imports and more able to find and compete in export markets, but also by way of creating new industries. The InterScan example, of which the House is aware, is only one of those industries. We are concentrating very much on the creation of new industries by new technology as well as on the creation of new employment opportunities by developing more export-oriented industries. I believe that most of the concern is about the rate of change, and as a government we are doing all we can to assist Australian industry to be more competitive through improved innovation; not by slavishly adopting other people's technology but by designing its own technology for its own requirements. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Patent, Trade marks and Designs Office for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following Nomad aircraft on order have to be delivered: 
On this the second anniversary of the establishment of the Department of Productivity, I present for the information of honourable members the annual report of the Department of Productivity for 1977-78 entitled  Productivity 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The total number of people employed at the Ordnance Factory Bendigo at 20 September 1978 was 597. 
The level of staff ceilings applicable to the Ordnance Factory Bendigo, to be effective at 30 June 1 979, is 588. 
Persons employed at the factory as at 30 June of each year totalled-(a) 1977-606; (b) 1976-614; and (c) 1975-654. 
-Yes, I can report to the House that we have received the co-operation of all State governments in furthering the work begun by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. Again this is rather typical of what the Prime Minister was referring to when he was saying that the seven governments are able to work together. When the honourable member for Hindmarsh was Minister for Labor he began work aimed at reducing the cost to Australia of occupational ill health and industrial accidents. We have reached agreement with all areas of public sector employment to set standards in respect of each classification in the public sector and in respect of all modes of carrying out work so that - 
-Yes. The agreement covers all aspects of the public sector. It has been endorsed by the State governments. Codes to apply to all occupations in the public sector have been published or are in the course of preparation. It is the Government's hope that the private sector legislation, which is, of course, State legislation, will adopt similar standards as set for the public sector as a result of work begun by the honourable member. I suspect that this process will be a little slower. Legislation covering factories and shops has been introduced and updated at different times. We are now working on a model Act for adoption by the States in respect of the private sector. In respect of the public sector, we have made great strides in reaching agreement on a general code of principles and in the adoption of that code in a number of specific areas. 
Perhaps I should add also that in the Budget we have allocated money for promotion of a national campaign for an awareness of the cost to the nation of bad occupational health and safety practices. I expect that the Prime Minister will soon be writing to the Premiers to ask them for their co-operation in that matter, which is very much allied to that raised by the honourable member. 
A number of important matters were raised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  It seemed to me that there were three main themes running through what he was saying. He was referring to the short term and the long term in the economic sense and also, towards the end of his speech, to a number of other areas which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has covered on other occasions. Recently the Prime Minister addressed the Academy of Technological Sciences and gave a great deal of attention to the role of technology in the 1980s. On other occasions the Prime Minister and I have spoken about employee participation programs and consultation with employees about the introduction of new technology. I have had discussions with officers of the Australian Bank Officials Association, amongst others, about the way in which it might be introduced and about the way in which consultation ought to take place. A considerable amount is being done by the Government on those last matters raised. It was not possible to refer to that in the Prime Minister's relatively short speech on Sunday night. 
As this matter of public importance relates to that speech, let me remind the House of what the Prime Minister endeavoured to say on Sunday night. He endeavoured to address himself to the changes in the longer term economy of this country. He endeavoured to paint the short term strategies in the context of longer term recovery and prosperity and job creation. This, I believe, he did most effectively. It is interesting that the honourable member for Port Adelaide did not quote from the Prime Minister's speech. Let me remind the House briefly of some of the matters raised by the Prime Minister, First of all, he referred to the agreement reached with the States at the Loan Council meeting regarding infrastructure finance. He said that he believed that this was important and that it had been possible only because of the strategy adopted over the last three years in cutting back inflation and interest rates and reducing costs generally. He said that he believed that, with interest rates and inflation falling, employment prospects were improving. He said, in fact, in respect of unemployment: 
Unfortunately unemployment is still far too high. That is of great concern to me, and I know it is of concern to all of you. It is because the Government is so concerned that we are prepared to take the hard, unpopular decisions that we know are right for Australia. We are. not prepared to take those decisions that might appear to help, but which we know will not. 
Actions that we have already taken are enabling Australian manufacturing industry to get back into export markets. 
The Prime Minister went on to give examples of how we are getting back into export markets. The export awards will be presented in the next 10 days or so. They are always inspiring examples of 'coal to Newcastle' stories, and the stories this year are even better than before. I know, in some of the labour intensive industries in which my Department has been working with the trade union movement and with the employers directly, of a number of cases where the situation is turning around. The firm of Julius Marlow, which has always been a leading company in the shoe industry, is now employing 200 more people than it employed at this time last year. It is now selling high quality shoes of a fashion and design that Australian consumers want. It is considerably undercutting the price of imported shoes and will be able to look to quality exports. 
It seemed to me that the honourable member for Port Adelaide raised a number of very important matters; but, in talking in both the short and long term as he did, he left behind a picture which was distinctly different from that referred to by the Prime Minister. No one in this House has denied the difficulties in the short term regarding employment. No one has denied the social impact for those who are affected. What we have said in Government is that we do not possess a magic wand. If we did, we would use it. That is one of the important facts which has to be faced. The honourable member for Port Adelaide did not say that we should not introduce new technology, but he did identify what we identify as problems, namely, the rate of change of its introduction, the manner of its introduction and the way in which it is designed. We have tried to address ourselves to that. Let me refer once again to the Prime Minister's address. He said: 
All this is possible only because inflation is down, because costs have stabilised, and Australian manufacturing industry is more competitive in our own market and in export markets. 
The Prime Minister then went on to talk of the position in the mining industry as the result of some of the policies of the Government. In respect of oil he said: 
That means more oil reserves. It means more jobs for Australians. 
It has to be acknowledged that the jobs to which the Prime Minister is referring there are not in high labour intensive industries. It has to be acknowledged that the manufacturing sector will not itself return to high labour intensive areas of employment unless we can find more export markets. We are going through extremely difficult times, but we as a Government are endeavouring to co-operate with the States in order to overcome those difficulties as rapidly as we can. 
The importance of the Prime Minister's address was that it focused attention on what the seven governments in Australia have been able to negotiate at the Loan Council meeting.  His  speech was devoted to that. The Prime Minister gave details of the infrastructure projects which the Premiers put forward and which had been accepted by the Loan Council. Most of those do have long lead times involved, but the construction phase will begin soon and each of those projects will contribute greatly to the prosperity of Australia. At the same time they will free precious capital held by the States for investment in other projects such as roads, schools, hospitals, bridges and so on, which will employ people in the construction phase. So let us have a look at some of those projects and at some of the vision that was in the minds of the seven leaders of government when they met at the Loan Council. I shall read again from the Prime Minister's address to the nation: 
Your Federal Government has always been committed to working in co-operation with the States, and last week we took that commitment to federalism a significant stage further. After two years of negotiations, at a special Loan Council meeting, the States were given authority to borrow overseas to assist major developing projects. Earlier in the year, in June, there was agreement about the guidelines. Now all seven governments, the States and the Commonwealth, acting together have taken decisions that will enable major development works to proceed. 
In New South Wales and Queensland, coal export facilities will be vastly improved. In all the eastern States there will be a great expansion of power generation, as well as in the Pilbara of Western Australia. Hydro-electric and water supplies in Tasmania will be greatly improved. For Western Australia we have taken decisions that will encourage the great North West Shelf development to go ahead, and also an alumina project. 
In South Australia, where there was some concern about the future of industrial development, we have taken decisions that will enable the State Government to construct power supplies and pipelines that will encourage a great petrochemical plant at Redcliff. 
Again, in Melbourne, a great world trade centre will be built that will encourage trade, to and from Australia, around the world. 
It was a rare show of unity between governments- acting together to advance Australia's cause. All seven governments have worked and planned together to encourage Australia's development. It was an historic meeting. 
It is against that background that this matter of public importance is raised today. Let me refer to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide. First of all, he spoke of job displacement through technological change. I say to him that what he presented was false in the sense that it assumed that too many elements were fixed. He presented pessimism galore because he did not look at the chain reaction of the effect of reducing unit costs by the introduction of new technology. We must strive in Australia to introduce technology of a kind suitable for the market, for the people who will work with the technology, and for our potential customers domestically and internationally. We must design our technology so that it does cater for all of those requirements. By doing those things we will so rejuvenate our existing industries that we will sustain a high level of employment in them. We will not extend employment in them but, by extending demand for the goods and services, a chain reaction can be achieved in which other employment opportunities are created. 
-Not necessarily in the existing manufacturing sectors. However, I shall deal with that matter first. Concurrent with our thrust to improve our technology in existing manufacturing is our thrust to create new manufacturing enterprises. So not only will we inevitably adopt micro-processing but also we ought to do all that we can to manufacture the technology involved in the micro-processes. For example, in respect of InterScan which has been hailed as an important initiative, we are determined to manufacture as much of the components as we possibly can for the world market. A piece of legislation which I will be introducing later this afternoon and which will greatly increase the industrial research and development grants is aimed not just at improving the technology to be adopted in existing industry, not just at enabling people to use the investment allowance more effectively by adopting the right kind of innovative technology for themselves, but also at creating new industry such as InterScan. We as a government are prepared to fund, if we have to, 100 per cent further research into and development of Australian innovations to a point where it is commercially feasible for risk capital to be injected for the creation of new industries, some of which will be manufacturing industries. I know the views of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  on this matter. As I have heard him speak on it before, I would have thought that we were talking the same language. 
Very few of them will be labour intensive. It is very difficult to see labour intensive industries being created. 
If we are really export oriented and if we really do those things we can do well enough to compete with other countries in quality and in delivery, we will find that people will pay for quality. It is the volume of goods and a reduction in unit costs which have to come together. It seems to me that there are four elements that have to come together for us in the 1980s if we are to return to high levels of employment and prosperity. Those four elements are a return to economic growth to which the strategies of this Government have been aimed - 
It is not at all a pipe dream. If a person living in our country with its human and material resources thinks that that is a pipe dream, it is a sad commentary on our innovative capacity. One can see so many other countries with very little in the way of resources coping far better than we have been coping with the international downturn and with the rate of change which is facing us, both economically and socially. Let me complete the picture. Four elements are important. One is a rejuvenation of our existing industries so that, whilst they may not be as labour intensive as they were before, we will retain as much skilled, satisfying employment in those industries as is possible. It involves a combination of ingenuity in a number of areas, including the introduction of technology, but that is not the only area for creativity and cooperation. 
We need also the creation of enough new industries, which will largely be capital intensive but enough of them being of a creative, innovative kind, to develop export potential for this country. One which has been spoken of recently- it is another Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation innovation- is Sirotherm, which is a process for the desalination of brackish water. Another is Sirofloc, a process for the removal of other impurities from water. These innovations will be of benefit all around the world. When we have developed those processes to a stage where they are commercially marketable we will have a manufacturing industry for the components for sale all around the world. There are a great many other innovations in the area of medical research which we can market. I believe that these will be developed further by my Department in the next few months. Economic growth and a willingness to look at changes in our patterns of working hours are two other important elements. I have spoken on other occasions of a willingness to look at a 14 day fortnight in which we all work the same number of days but not on the same days. 
-As far as possible, with no lost income. Certainly, people should be working pro rata if they opt to work permanently on a part-time basis, but as far as possible our goal must be to give full-time employment to those who want it. We should give those who opt for early semi-retirement or who opt for part-time employment the opportunity to have that work on pro rata conditions. A variety of factors must come together to create the longer term objective. There is no magic wand which can be used to achieve our shorter term objective. Certainly we do not want a slavish adoption of other nation's policies and technology. We want to return to specialisation, efficiency, equality of working life and development of a leisure ethic. All of those things and all the other factors that I have mentioned have to come together. It is a complex world of change. I believe we have a coherent strategy. We have a clear philosophy. It is based on a vision for Australia which is aimed at high levels of employment and sound standards of living. These things will not be achieved easily and in the short term but I do not believe that the Opposition can reasonably suggest that the policies which we have adopted in the short term can do other than bring on as quickly as possible the long term prospects of which the Prime Minister spoke. I believe that the 1980s are years of optimism for us. It is about time that we started talking positively. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The Minister's time has expired. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill, to amend the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act 1976, was foreshadowed by my colleague the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch),  and me in a joint statement on 1 6 August 1978 when we announced that the $24m allocated for industrial research and development grants in the 1978-79 Budget was intended to fund a new policy for Commonwealth financial incentives provided under the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act 1976. The purpose of the proposed Bill is to introduce a number of changes to the existing grant schemes to enable the full implementation of important elements of the new policy for the 1978-79 and later grant years. A number of administrative actions have already been taken under the existing terms of the Act to give effect to other aspects of the new policy. 
A strong private sector research and development capability is of vital importance for Australian industry to develop the new and improved products and processes necessary to better meet competition from imports and to create new growth opportunities based on exports. For this reason Commonwealth financial incentives for industrial research and development- IR and D- have been provided to Australian manufacturing and mining companies since 1967 through the medium of various types of grants made available under legislation. The current Act, introduced in 1976, provides for the payment of two types of grants and there is also provision under section 39 for the undertaking of projects of industrial research considered to be in the public interest. However, there is strong evidence of a substantial rundown in corporate research and development activity over the past three years. This rundown has been a matter of serious concern to the Government. The extent of this concern is indicated by the decision, despite a difficult budgetary situation, to provide $24m to fund the new policy- an increase of over 70 per cent on the $ 14m allocated in the previous financial year. 
The immediate objectives of the new policy are to prevent further wastage of Australian and research and development resources and to contribute advances in productivity, innovation and sound industry development. It is intended that these will be achieved by a balanced and costeffective strengthening of the existing grant schemes, together with a simplification of the procedures required of companies in making application for grants to allow for reduced administrative effort both on the part of the companies and the administering authority- the Australian Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board. 
I will now relate the provisions of the Bill to the three main elements of the new policy. Firstly, the Bill makes provision for an increase in the level of the project grants provided under Division 2 of Part III of the Act from the existing 25 per cent of company expenditure, subject to an overall annual limit on grant payments to any company' of $250,000, to 50 per cent, subject to a new annual limit of $500,000. The new grant levels will allow the Board greater scope to encourage company research and development projects assessed to have high technical and commercial merit. The existing levels have been found to be insufficient for this purpose and extensive discussions with industry have indicated that support up to the new levels would be required for many potentially important projects to be undertaken. 
In this respect, I also intend to give careful consideration to recommendations from the Board concerning my authority under the Act to approve a higher annual limit on project grant payments to a company, or a group of related companies, than the proposed new limit of $500,000. Companies considering undertaking research and development projects which may place them above the new limit should approach the Board in relation to their proposed research and development program for 1978-79. The Board could then assess the technical and commercial merits of the program with a view to making an appropriate recommendation. 
Other provisions of the Bill designed to improve the effectiveness of the project grant scheme include the introduction of eligibility of project expenditure from the date of a company's application and changes which would allow the Board to enter into a single project grant agreement with a company which is acting on behalf of a number of companies engaged in a collaborative research and development project. Eligibility of project expenditure from the date of application will allow the Board and the company more time to negotiate an acceptable agreement and a single agreement for collaborative research and development projects will act to encourage technological co-operation between firms which, in many cases, provides a means of making the most effective use of limited Australian research and development resources. 
The project grant scheme is intended to provide the main avenue for Commonwealth encouragement of company research and development, and I would like to take this opportunity to clarify several points which have been the subject of some widespread misunderstanding. In this respect, one of the features of the new policy which is worthy of further emphasis is the reduced administrative effort that will be required of companies in making applications for grants. New procedures are to be introduced to overcome the delays in finalising agreements and in settling grant payments which have to date inhibited company participation. 
Other aspects of the scheme which require clarification relate to supposed mandatory requirements for the payment of royalties to the Commonwealth, and for the acquisition of the rights to grant-assisted research and development when a company decides to terminate a project. The Act does not contain any provisions in respect of royalty payments or for the acquisition of the results of grant-assisted research and development. The Government regrets the concern amongst industry in both these respects, and I have recently issued a direction to the Board which should ensure that no further confusion arises over these matters. 
Concern has also been expressed by companies in relation to the eligibility of projects directed towards improved process technology. I regard the development of improved industrial processes as essential to realising major advances in industry productivity and such developments will be accorded a high priority. The project grant scheme has always been intended to provide support for advances in process technology as well as for the development of new and improved products. 
The new policy provides for a strengthening of the commencement grants made available under Division 1 of Part III of the Act. The commencement grant scheme is intended to encourage small and medium-sized companies to gain an appreciation of the benefits of research and development, and regulations have already been made increasing the level of the grant, for the 1978-79 grant year, from the previous level of 25 per cent of 'eligible' company expenditure- up to an annual limit of $15,000- to 50 per cent- up to a new annual limit of $25,000. In conjunction with the increased grant level it is proposed to introduce the progressive settlement of the commencement grants which have previously been paid retrospectively, usually in the subsequent financial year. This particular change has been made in recognition of the current importance of company cash flows and should make a significant contribution towards improving the effectiveness of the grants as an incentive to companies to commence an involvement in research and development. 
The Bill also makes provision for several other changes to the commencement grant scheme, and the most significant of these is a simplification in the eligibility criteria required of companies. Under the existing provisions of the Act a company must have had an employee engaged in 'professional or technical research and development' for a 'continuous' period of at least 4 weeks, whereas the Bill will allow for company eligibility on the basis of at least one employee engaged in R&amp;D for a cumulative period of not less than 4 weeks, or alternatively on the basis of 'eligible contract expenditure' in excess of $1,500. The requirement for a 'continuous' period has, in practice, caused severe administrative difficulties and has been a continuing source of concern amongst industry. 
Other changes provided for in the Bill in respect of commencement grants include a simplification of the definition of 'eligible contract expenditure', and a new requirement that regulations setting the amount of the commencement grant shall not be made later than 31 March in the grant year preceding the one to which they relate. The simplified definition will provide for reduced administrative effort on the part of the Board, and the new deadline of 3 1 March will allow for more certainty in company R&amp;D planning. 
The new policy also provides for support to be made available to enable the undertaking of projects of industrial research considered to be in the public interest. Under section 39 of the Act industrial research contracts will be placed in industry to encourage the commercial development of important Australian innovations, including the development of the process technologies required to increase the competitiveness of particular industry sectors. It is intended that this particular element of the new policy will be developed progressively. However, the Bill does allow for a clarification of the role of the Australian Industrial Research and Development Incentives Advisory Committee in providing me with advice on all aspects of the operation of the Act In particular, it is my intention that an appropriately constituted Advisory Committee should provide me with advice in relation to the use of section 39. An initial task which I will set the Committee is the development of a set of guidelines on what constitutes a 'public interest' project. 
The opportunity provided by the present Bill has also been used to introduce a number of minor clarifications to particular aspects of the Act which have been the subject of some discussion. The clarifications, which relate to the definition of 'eligible plant expenditure', the meaning of the term 'payable' and my right to give notices under section 31 to an acting chairman, are all consistent with the way in which the Act has been interpreted since it came into operation. 
Finally, it is my view that the new policy for Commonwealth industrial research and development incentives, provided for in part by the BUI, represents a positive expression of the Government's confidence in the ability of Australian industry to develop the new products and processes required to resist competition from imports and to create new growth opportunities based on exports. The Government now looks to private enterprise for strong co-operation in stimulating major new R&amp;D activity to secure the technological advancement of Australian industry- an advancement based on the proven ability of Australian scientists and technologists. I commend the BUI to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Cass)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department and the Ordnance Factory Bendigo itself are continuously and strenuously seeking work to maintain a forward workload. This has involved seeking out defence work, overseas orders and commercial work of an appropriate nature from Australian customers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Staff ceilings of588 people have been applied to the Ordnance Factory, Bendigo to be effective as at 30 June 1979. This number is expected to be adequate for the foreseeable workload in 1978-79. 
Staff ceilings have been applied to all government factories. 
Suitable work is sought for and allocated to the Ordnance Factory, Bendigo with the object of maintaining, as far as possible, stability in the factory's operations. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Ten of the 24 apprentices who will be completing their indentures at the Ordnance Factory Bendigo early in 1979 were recently advised by management that employment at the factory could not be offered to them at the end of their time. This action was taken having regard to: the anticipated demand for tradesmen to meet the factory workload in 1979; the desire of factory management to provide the maximum accommodation, within the staff ceiling, for intake of first year apprentices in early 1979; the shortage of skilled tradesmen available to general industry. 
The advice was subsequently rescinded pending further consultation with union representatives. 
No. Apprentice training at Ordnance Factory Bendigo is being maintained at its usual high standard. 
by leave- In recent months a number of initiatives have been taken by the Government, stemming from work undertaken by the Department of Productivity, in which many honourable members have expressed considerable interest. These announcements have included: The Government's decision to proceed with the commercial development of InterScan; the big increase in government funding for industrial research and development announced in the 1978-79 Budget; and the Commonwealth's new policy on employee participation. As November 1978 marks the second anniversary of the Department of Productivity, I believe it is appropriate that some of the Departments better known initiatives should be placed into an overall framework, hence this brief review of its most significant activities. When announcing the establishment of the Department of Productivity in 
November 1976 the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said: 
This initiative has been taken in recognition of the need to provide a technology orientated agency with the responsibility of providing increased industrial productivity. 
With two years behind us there is a general understanding by those who are working with the Department of Productivity that it has done a great deal to help people in management, unions and governments to think more deeply about the nature of change and their longer-term responses to it. I believe the creation of these longer-term perspectives in the minds of such people is also improving the quality of their short-term decisions. The Department of Productivity is not, as some people might imagine a group of white coated efficiency experts with stop watches, this Government's concept of improving Australia's productivity performance is far wider than that, as I will show. 
It is true that the Department of Productivity does encourage firms, or enterprises, to examine every aspect of their cost structure in the most thorough and challenging way possible. It does this in a variety of ways like the Industry Program Groups- IPGs- the Interfirm Comparison Program, plus the range of activities supported by the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia. I have said on many occasions that no stone should be left unturned by management in its endeavours to improve the cost structure and hence the productivity of its enterprise. In our modern, open economy, failure to improve our productivity will lead inevitably to a loss of competitiveness and ultimately jobs. That in the end, is why productivity improvement is so important. 
While we are concerned with encouraging individual firms to look closely at their cost structures, the range of activity of the Department of Productivity is much wider and more comprehensive than that. It includes: The encouragement of new technology to improve the productivity performance of existing industries and to create opportunities for the development of new industries; the need to relate new technology to people at the workplace; the need for excellence in Australian design to enable industries better to compete, not only in the domestic market but also in the world marketplace; the need to look seriously at our existing patterns of work, to explore the options offered for part-time employment, flexible working hours and the like; the need to improve the quality of Australia's goods and services; the need to improve our physical distribution systems, that is, every aspect of the packaging, storage, handling and movement of goods; the need to improve our industrial safety and health record; the need to improve the physical working environment of Australians, not simply for safety or occupational health reasons, but to provide the more satisfying and challenging jobs that a younger, better educated workforce is demanding; the need for a greater involvement of employees in decisions affecting their work through better communication and improved consultation and through new systems of work involving concepts such as semi-autonomous work groups; and, finally and most importantly, the need to stimulate industry, both management and employees, to integrate each of these elements of productivity improvement to each other instead of treating them in individual compartments as matters to be looked at and dealt with in isolation. 
Reflecting the Government's concern that all these matters should be seen clearly to be interconnected in the important contribution they make to improving national productivity, the Department was largely formed from elements which came from a number of other departments. The result is a Department which complements- rather than competes with- other economic and industry departments in the Commonwealth Public Service. Similarly, productivity programs complement and, I believe, render more effective the many other activities of this Government in support of industry, whether they be export incentives, the investment allowance, or the many other programs of support. 
I will outline some of these specific productivity programs. I want first, however, to draw the attention of honourable members to a number of characteristics which distinguish the Department of Productivity and which emphasise its importance. Firstly, I emphasise that the Ministry is concerned principally with medium to longer-term issues- matters which do not tend to make headlines. The task of substantially upgrading Australia's technological capability will not be achieved overnight. Neither will the attitudes of Australians to alternative work patterns alter magically because of a policy pronouncement from Canberra. Nor will much needed uniform legislation between State and Commonwealth governments be achieved without the co-operation of all governments and affected industry sectors. They are the kinds of issues on which we are working patiently and persistently. Whilst those in industry and the unions who are working with us appreciate very clearly what we are doing, there is a need for much wider understanding in the community of these long-term issues. Consequently, we are now planning a series of major publicity programs to augment the many industry seminars which we have helped to sponsor. 
Secondly, the Department has been conscious of the need actively to involve all those people and groups who have an interest in improving productivity. In many of our programs, therefore, we have approached problem solving on a tripartite basis- involving government, management and and the unions. In this respect the Department has adopted a catalytic role, helping people to help themselves. Central to this 'working together' or 'hands on' approach has been the belief that people who know most about Australian industry and who have most to benefit from its improvement are those working in it. When problems are identified in this way management will consider afresh matters such as new markets and products, new methods of distribution and production and, perhaps most importantly, new ways of harnessing the talents of the people working in their enterprises. Equally, union officials who are informed of the real position of an industry and the issues it faces have reacted positively in order to seek solutions to what, in reality, are mutual problems. Our faith in this innovative approach has been vindicated by experience: Unions and management are seeking to explore matters of mutual self interest. It is, we hope, providing an example to a wider audience. 
Thirdly, the Department of Productivity has adopted new and innovative ways of doing things. The tripartite approach in many of its programs is a case in point. Another has been the formation of a company under the sponsorship of the Australian Industry Development Corporation to carry through the commercial development of InterScan. This method is a significant experiment in government-industry cooperation. It recognised the reality that no single Australian company or consortium could have taken this development further as a commercial proposition at this stage. The new emphasis on funding for 'public interest' projects under the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act is further evidence of the new approaches. Projects under consideration in this field will demonstrate that InterScan is no isolated instance of our determination to carry Australian inventiveness and innovation through to commercial viability on world markets. 
There is not time today for me to outline all the Department's current programs. However some of the highlights include the following: I have already made mention of the big increase in funds available in this year's Budget for industrial research and development- a lift of 75 per cent to $24m. We have also significantly improved the scheme by increasing the level of grants to individual companies and providing for progressive payment of grants. We are also actively pursuing section 39 of the Act which relates to 'public interest' projects. These improvements to the industrial research and development incentives scheme is just one of the ways in which the Government, through my Department, is aiming to stimulate the design and introduction of new technology by Australian industries. 
There are a number of ways in which my Department is attempting to improve the dissemmination of technological information. The Patent Office now provides a technology information service for Australian business from world patent literature. We have recently begun overhauling the legislation dealing with industrial property. Amendments to the patents legislation have been introduced this session, aimed at providing for patent specifications to be open for public inspection at least a year earlier than is presently the case. The Trade Marks Act has also been amended to cover services as well as goods. Legislation will be introduced next session to establish a system of petty patents aimed to cater primarily for innovation developed by small business or short term fashions. 
In the past the laws regarding inventions, trade marks and designs have been formed and administered on the narrow grounds of the granting of proprietary rights. It is clear, however, that these laws are the mechanisms for encouraging innovation and productivity. Apart from the legislation we have introduced, I have also established an industrial property advisory committee to advise me, on a continuing basis, on the need for changes in industrial property law. 
To exploit our own innovations and to ensure that the latest overseas technology is available to Australian industry, a technology transfer network has been established. In this regard a pilot program is underway- aimed primarily at the metal manufacturing sector- which has the object of facilitating the technology transfer of information from academic, government and private research institutions to private industry to assist in the effective exploitation and application of available technologies. 
In particular industries it has been necessary to go further and to develop formal bodies. The Information Technology Council is an example of a group which has been set up to address an area of major industrial potential, which also happens to be of current popular concern. This group seeks to guide, instruct, demonstrate and provide support for the use of information technologies, including micrographics and computers, to enhance the efficiency of industry. Australia has, until now, been somewhat lagging behind in its promotion and use of computer-aided design and computer-aided manufacture CAD/CAM compared with other industriallydeveloped countries. My Department is demonstrating its confidence in CAD/CAM in the most practical way- by using it in its own factories as well as promoting it in private industry. 
My department has inaugurated a number of programs aimed at improving productivity in specific industries- for example in textiles, clothing and footwear. In these industry sectors many enterprises have been particularly affected by the rapid development of similar industries in developing countries. Because of the ability of these countries to sell their products at much lower cost than many Australian made products. The Australian industries have suffered a declining share of the local market and falling employment. In August last year the Government asked me to examine their scope for productivity improvement. The Department's approach has been to seek the co-operative involvement of all concerned in the industries- the industry associations and employers, the trade unions, and representatives of the Governments- both Commonwealth and State- and of government agencies such as the Commonwealth Scientific Industrial Research Organisation. Industry program groups- IPGs- have been formed from these three areas, the aim of the IPGs being to identify areas in each industry sector which show potential to produce the greatest improvement in productivity. In this approach the Department of Productivity acts as a catalyst to set the examination processes in action. 
These industry-based IPGs provide an important extension to the well-established work of the regional, multi-industry, productivity groups. These groups are now well integrated with the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia and the Department. A recent national conference of productivity group chairmen from throughout Australia made extensive recommendations for more action-oriented activities for productivity groups. Like the IPGs, productivity groups help identify problems and assist in efforts to overcome the problems through training, workshops, and seminars. 
The approach of the IPGs is largely one of self-help, with all participants contributing on a mutually agreed basis. The textile, clothing and footwear industries are made up of about 3,000 firms, employing about 120,000 people- and there are many small firms in these industries. I am pleased to be able to report that definite progress in improving productivity in these industries is being made. In some cases, the improvement is quite dramatic and provides an answer to those people who said that such industries could not survive in Australia. There is now no doubt of their surviving and the main question remaining relates to their market share. I have no doubt that the companies which participate most effectively in the IPGs will extend their market shares considerably. Similar IPGs in other industries show promise as well, although most are in the early stages of activity. 
The Government has announced major initiatives in employee participation. It believes that people who are fully aware of difficulties and are involved in their solution can participate positively and for mutual benefit. A national steering committee, representing employer and union organisations, has been set up to reach a consensus about terminology and concepts and to consider methods of implementing employee participation as thus conceived. I chair that committee and would like to pay tribute to the most constructive attitude taken by all its members, whether representing the public sector or the private sector, unions, managements or government. 
We are also vitally concerned with industrial safety and occupational health in the interaction of people and machines. Industrial accidents not only inflict pain and suffering on those involved, but also the costs to industry and the consumer are astronomical. Our studies have shown that a large proportion of industrial accidents are avoidable. We are actively promoting appropriate changes to current practices which will cost relatively little in terms of finance or personal inconvenience. The Commonwealth has implemented a code of general principles on occupational safety and health, much of which has also been implemented by the State governments. I would like to thank the State governments generally and the Ministers for Labour in particular for their willingness to share their expertise with us in this vital area of human and economic cost. We have also initiated pilot testing of a national promotional campaign in an attempt to change the attitudes of employers and employees. I expect this campaign to achieve a great deal over the next few years. 
With all the best will and management in the world, economies cannot evolve without some dislocation in the lives of firms and individuals. 
My Department has been studying such things as redundancy policies and practices, retirement planning, information sharing with employees, and trade union attitudes to varied working hours to assess the scope for amelioration of some of the problems. In short, although the Department is still quite young, I believe it is making a useful contribution to improving productivity in Australia. It is continuing to look at new and innovative ways of lifting Australia's productivity performance. In doing so it recognises the need to raise the community's general consciousness of benefits flowing from increased productivity. For this reason it is currently assessing the idea of having a national productivity year in 1 980 with a view to advising the Government on the matter. The concept of a national productivity year needs a great deal of thought. To be successful it would need to have wide community support. Honourable members might therefore like to give this matter some thought and advise me of their views on the desirability of such an initiative and how they think it might be best organised. Earlier this year the Prime Minister said: 
It is up to all of us as Australians to commit ourselves to this country: To commit ourselves to success, to boldness, to innovation: To seek out and develop new markets here and abroad, not merely by aping products and techniques devised overseas, but by developing our own expertise. 
The concept of a national productivity year could play an important role in engineering this spirit of enthusiasm in the community. The continued endeavours of the Department of Productivity will be aimed at engendering this spirit in programs of action within industry in order to improve our trading position, our standards of living and our employment prospects. I present the following papen 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply given by the Prime Minister to question No. 2090 (House of Representatives  Hansard,  17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development: Liaison with States  (Question No.  2117) 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on the Bill, I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the motions to take note of the papers and ministerial statements on the Ranger uranium project agreement between the 
Commonwealth and the Northern Land Council and the Kakadu National Park Agreement and the memoranda of leases, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on the Bill and each motion to take note of the paper at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the Bill and the two ministerial statements and papers to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes; approximately 73 per cent of its output is directly attributable to defence purposes. 
The Government plans in the short term and the long term to retain the Small Arms Factory, Lithgow as a production facility to meet Defence production needs as required. 
The staff strength of the factory: 
a) as at 30 June in recent years was- 
1975,989; (u) 1976,910; (iii) 1977,891. 
and was 914 as at 20 September 1978. 
Apprentice intakes at the factory were: 1975, 18; 1976,21; 1977,25; 1978,25. 
Staffing restraint has been exercised at factory as a result of staff ceilings. Staff ceilings have not affected output of defence work. There have however been some inhibiting considerations in quoting for commercial work of a nature which can be undertaken elsewhere in the Australian private sector. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For the purpose of answering the series of questions 1773-1799 as Minister responsible for the Department administering and co-ordinating the Offset Program I have provided information which was sought from the other Ministers to whom the question was directed with the exception of the Minister for Defence. 
My colleague, the Minister for Defence, will provide a detailed reply to question number 1773 regarding offset obligations required and discharged for major defence purchases. 
I will therefore confine my answer to the contracts entered into by other Departments and associated statutory bodies and the offsets generated in this regard up to 30 September 1978. 
The Australian Offsets Program has its origin in a decision by the Australian Government in 1970 to require that offset orders be placed in Australia against major Government purchases of overseas manufactured equipment. Offsets were first sought against purchases of defence equipment and civil aircraft. The program was later extended to include other major purchases by the Government including computers, telecommunications and electronic equipment It aims principally to stimulate technological advancement in Australian industries and to broaden the capabilities of industries of strategic significance. 
It achieves its objectives by obtaining tasks that either stimulate continuing activities in the same field of technology as the equipment being purchased or that result in a transfer of technology in areas of significance to Australian defence or industrial development. Other factors taken into consideration are the extent to which Australian design and development resources can be utilised and the workload that can be obtained for underutilised sectors of industry of technological or strategic significance. 
Tasks undertaken include involvement in part production programs were overseas contractors arrange for Australian industry to participate in the manufacture of selected assemblies or sub-assemblies of the prime equipment being purchased. Co-production programs are also undertaken where items are manufactured in conjunction with the overseas supplier either for domestic and overseas use or the latter alone. In some instances Australian firms have succeeded in becoming the sole suppliers of certain items. 
The program also seeks to obtain collaborative tasks which involve overseas and Australian firms participating in the conceptual, design, development and production stages of a project. 
Encouragement is also given to the purchase of Australian products of defence or technological significance by overseas firms or Governments. Commercial items that normally have ready overseas markets and purchases of primary and mineral products do not qualify as offsets. 
Since its inception in 1970 the program in total, including Defence buys, nas resulted in offsets for Australia amounting to more than $220m. In some cases overseas companies have placed orders in Australia as offsets which because of their nature will be spread over a number of years. These are included in the above figure. Most offset work has gone to the aircraft industry with computer and electronic firms benefiting to a lesser extent. 
While overseas companies are required to submit appropriate offset proposals before being awarded a major Government contract a number of companies have placed approved offset work on Australian industry without commitment. These overseas companies build up an offset credit which can be used if and when the company tenders for and obtains a contract against which offsets are required. 
It should be emphasised that the Offset Program is not an isolated means for obtaining workload for significant sections of Australian industry. In defence and public communication spheres conditions are written into contracts where appropriate, requiring that certain tasks and work content be undertaken locally. In other situations licence agreements are entered into which permit the production in Australia of specific equipment such as military aircraft, arms and ammunition and patrol craft. The Offset Program complements these arrangements by ensuring that workload is obtained relating to equipment that cannot at this point in time, for good reasons, be manufactured in Australia. 
1 ) During the eight years over which the Offset Program has operated, a total of 33 contracts incurring an offset obligation have been entered into by Departments and Statutory Bodies. 
Contracts have covered major purchases such as civil aircraft bought by TAA, Qantas and Ansett, simulators for civil airline pilot training and computers for use by Government Departments and Statutory Bodies. Details of the value of contracts entered into are contained in the summary below. 
Offsets are negotiated in a competitive situation. Details of the individual arrangements between overseas and local firms and the exact type and value of work placed in Australia are treated as company confidential. 
However the offsets generated against overseas orders have been of considerable benefit to Australian industry. While explicit details cannot be given it can be stated that aircraft component manufacture (including wine flaps, rudders, elevators, doors and escape systems for Boeing, Douglas and Fokker aircraft) is being successfully undertaken in Australia. 
Against computer purchases offset orders have been obtained for terminal manufacture, software development and component design and development. In addition offset work has also been generated in the telecommunication field in areas such as component manufacture, radar modules and electronic simulator production. 
Individual offset obligations against each contract let are a matter of discreet negotiations between the parties concerned- namely, the overseas prime supplier and the local firm receiving the offset order. Overseas tenderers are required to submit proposals for offset work to be placed in Australia to a substantial percentage of the value of the overseas order- nominally 30 per cent. This may include partproduction of the prime equipment, co-production to satisfy larger markets, or the reciprocal purchase of goods and services of Australian origin. Offset credit is also allowed for the value of transferred technology, the waiver of licence fees, manufacturing rights and royalty payments and the like. 
It is the practice with any major purchase to try to finalise offset arrangements so that aU details can be included in the contract. Where this is not possible, contractors must enter into a firm commitment to continue to try to place work in Australia up to the target level. 
Because of the confidential nature of offset negotiations and the manner by which some firms place work far in excess of immediate requirements it is not possible to identify individual offset achievements against the various contracts entered into by the Government. 
The Australian Offset Program is an ongoing scheme in which offsets are negotiated against individual contracts let, or anticipated. 
Offsets placed in Australia as a result of the program sometimes exceed the value of offsets sought. This credit can be utilised against future orders. 
In other situations there is a considerable time span between the placement of an order requiring offsets and the discharge of the offset obligation. In these cases an early comparison of offsets owed and those actually received would infer that a considerable offset debt exists with respect to certain individual contracts. This assumption should not lead to the conclusion that the full amount of the offset obligation will not ultimately be met. 
In general it can be stated that the Offset Program in its eight years of operation has been a success. In this period more that $220m worth of offsets have been placed in Australia. As well as providing invaluable workload these offsets have stimulated the technological and managerial capabilities of Australian industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) Owned 7; (b) operated 7; (c) in the process of being purchased/rented l;(d) rented nil. 
In respect of the seven computers already owned: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
By way of introduction the site concerned at Robinson's Road, Deer Park is known as Ravenhall Siding. The Minister for Administrative Services advised  (Hansard,  9 November 1978, page 2682) that the total area of the site is 217.278 hectares. The area is no longer used as a railway siding. 
None. 
A pan of the area is used occasionally as a site for rocket motor static firings by staff from the Explosives Factory Maribyrnong. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the assumption that the honourable member's question relates to funds allocated to the Australian Industrial Research and Development Incentives Scheme this is within my area of responsibility. 
The current position is that despite a difficult budgetary situation the Government has decided to allocate $24m for IR&amp; D grants in 1978-79, which represents an increase of71 per cent over the 1977-78 allocation of $ 14m. 
I am not aware of the precise recommendation to which the honourable member refers, but I am aware that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has in the past recommended that Australia should place increased emphasis on increasing its research effort. The Government has done this in the IR &amp; D and other fields of research. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The ICL System 4/50, operated on behalf of my Department by the Regional Office (Victoria) performs the function of a service bureau and as such holds information belonging to the following organisations: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
See answer to(l). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the reply I gave to question number 1794 (House of Representatives,  Hansard 23  November 1978, page 3351) for general information concerningthe Offset Program. 
For a general outline on offset matters in relation to defence I refer the honourable member to my colleague, the Minister for Defence's reply to question number 1773. If the honourable member wishes to obtain further information relating to defence I suggest he could make a direct approach to the Minister for Defence. 
There were no civil aviation purchases requiring offsets in the financial year 1977-78 but as the Offset Program is a continuing undertaking, orders to the value of $8.3m were placed against earlier civil aircraft purchases. 
In addition orders worth more than $6m were placed in this period by overseas aircraft companies without an offset commitment in anticipation of future purchases of civil or military aircraft. 
No funds are available under the Offset Program for investment in Australian technology or expertise; any such investment is the responsibility of the Australian companies involved. However offset credits are awarded to overseas companies for their costs incurred in providing technical assistance, plant and tooling. In 1 977-78 this amounted to over $.5m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Department's factories employ apprentices. They also train first year apprentices under the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations Group Scheme. No other apprentices are employed. 
(a) New apprentices engaged in each of the six years are: 
1972-73-159; 1973-74-120; 1974-75-169 (25); 1975-76-180 (27); 1976-77-234 (56); 1977-78-257 (94). 
Figures in brackets are group scheme apprentices included in totals. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Patents Amendment Bill 1979 represents a further new development in the Australian patent system. Its purpose is to bring into operation an optional form of patent protection that has been devised specifically to assist small Australian industries and businesses. It will achieve that by encouraging the inventive activity of Australians in fields that are particularly suited to commercial exploitation by small Australian enterprises. To that extent, therefore, this Bill reflects the continuing commitment of the Government to upgrading Australia's industrial property laws through a process of reform which we believe will make them more responsive to the economic needs of the nation. 
Access by inventors and entrepreneurs to quick, easily obtainable and inexpensive patent protection is the major feature of this measure. The Bill introduces into the existing patent system provision for the statutory protection of patentable inventions by means of the grant of a new short-term patent to be known as a petty patent. The form of this new Australian petty patent system is unique and has no counterpart in other industrial property legislation around the world. The new petty patent will be an additional form of protection to the grant of a patent as traditionally provided for under the present Patents Act. A petty patent will have a minimum term of one year and a maximum of six years, by contrast with the existing patent which has a 16 year term. The existing, traditional patent will in future be known as a 'standard' patent. 
The technological developments which are most likely to qualify to this new form of petty patent protection are those suited to protection by means of a single patent claim. This means they would normally be inventions which have only one inventive characteristic and which usually consist of only one product. Honourable members will appreciate that the new petty patent system proposed by this Bill is therefore intended to provide a form of protection which will positively encourage innovation in Australian industry plus the creation of small industries based on innovation. The kinds of innovation aimed for will involve the rapid development of inventions which individually have a short commercially-exploitable life, such as household or office accessories, gadgets, small appliances, and so on. 
Honourable members will better appreciate the real significance of the changes to our patents system proposed by the Bill if I explain that existing Australian patents law is founded upon principles developed within the British patent system at the time of the introduction of a national patent system in Australia in 1904- almost 75 years ago to the day. Until now, Australia's patent law had been comprehensively reviewed only twice- in 1937 and in 1952- on both occasions by committees established by the Attorney-General of the day. In the course of these reviews, investigations were confined largely to the legal aspects of patents laws without regard to the underlying economic basis of the patent system which is being recognised here today. Additionally, those early reviews relied heavily on the reports of counterpart reviews of the British patents laws; again without regard to whether the results of those reviews were relevant to the specific needs of the Australian industry. These attitudes have changed with the growing awareness of the economic value of the patents system as a source of technical information. Britain's patents laws have been amended to accommodate the needs of British industry in its new relationship with the European Economic Community. This Bill similarly recognises that, here in Australia, reform of our industrial property system can provide a significant contribution to improving the productivity of industry. 
The existing patents law is based on a system of uniform, relatively long-term protection for inventions. Prior to the grant of a patent, every application is subjected to extensive and lengthy investigations within the Patent Office. The purpose of such precise and drawn-out procedures is to provide patent grants which have a substantial presumption of validity. The system provides certainty, but at the cost of delays and expense. Because of the time required to perform the operations involved- and their complexity- plus the large numbers of patent applications being lodged, the grant of a patent in Australia is subject to extensive delays. Obtaining a patent does involve considerable expense and difficulties for applicants. I hasten to add that Australia is, of course, not the only country facing such problems in its patent system nor are all such problems entirely new. Similar difficulties have led others to a number of solutions including the provision in some countries of a more narrow form of protection generally described as 'petty patents' for technically simple developments, which are generally described as 'utility models'. 
To determine whether similar measures might be appropriate to Australian circumstances, the Designs Law Review Committee- the so-called Franki Committee- established in 1970, was authorised under one of its terms of reference to consider 
. whether separate legislative provisions should be made in Australia with respect to utility models, and, if the Committee recommended such legislation, the provisions which it considered should be included in the legislation. 
The Franki Committee reported in 1973 recommending the introduction of a petty patent system within the existing patents legislation and that report has been widely circulated. Not all the features of the petty patent system recommended by the Franki Committee received unqualified support from industry in Australia. In view of these divided opinions on an appropriate system among the users, I referred the question to the Industrial Property Advisory Committee for resolution. This Advisory Committee, established last year as an industryoriented body to advise me on questions of industrial property, is itself another example of patents and industrial property law reform I referred to earlier. In considering petty patents the Advisory Committee received submissions from industry; inventors and patent attorney organisations, with only one exception, the recommendations of the Committee are incorporated in this Bill. The Committee's report to me on this question is available in the Parliamentary Library or my office will supply honourable members who are interested with copies. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, having provided that background to the Bill let me go on to a brief explanation of the major features of the petty patent system which it introduces. Obviously, a basic feature is the scope of the technological developments for which petty patent protection can be obtained under the Bill. The existing standard of inventiveness required for an invention to be patentable has not been changed whether for a standard patent or a petty patent. But an important feature of the new petty patent system is that an application for a petty patent will not automatically be subjected to the rigorous examination applied to applications for standard patents. I wish to emphasise that this distinction does not mean that the Commissioner of Patents will be issuing petty patents with a low presumption of validity. In fact, the Bill requires that he should not do so. But it is anticipated that the nature of inventions covered by a petty patent will be in mechanical and electrical areas with perhaps some simple chemical-type inventions. It is therefore expected that it should be relatively easy to have quicker examination of such applications for petty patents. The result of this should be that a petty patent will issue well within one year of lodgment compared to about five years for a standard patent. There will be tangible benefits from this greatly reduced period of examination. A manufacturer or inventor will be able to market or license his petty patent far more expeditiously; secondly, they will have a far higher degree of confidence in such commercial negotiations without the previous long delays; and, finally, the cost involved should generally be reduced by half or perhaps more. As I mentioned, the time now taken to grant letters patent for a standard patent is about five years. 
The Bill further expedites the grant of petty patents by the absence of opposition proceedings prior to grant. But, in order to preserve the rights of both competitors and the public, the Bill limits the initial term of a petty patent to 12 months from the date of grant. It makes extension of that term conditional upon the Commissioner being satisfied that there is no ground for refusing to extend the term. To avoid the extension beyond 12 months of the term of petty patents, considered by interested parties to be valid, the Bill has provisions for such persons to notify the Commissioner, during the initial term, of any published matter that affects the validity of a petty patent. To provide petty patent protection which is consistent with the short commerciallyexploitable life of simple inventions, the period of extension of the initial 12 months term of a petty patent is limited to a maximum six years from the date of lodgment of a petty application- that is, an extension of five years. This limited term is a disincentive to unnecessary use of the petty patent system in respect of complex inventions. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, this Bill will provide a new and optional form of patent protection for Australian industry. The nature of this protection means that it is primarily directed to the many small businesses which are active in commercial innovation. The BUI also allows further choice by permitting an applicant to convert a petty patent application into a standard patent application or vice versa. The Bill also provides that, on the grant of the petty patent, the Patent Office file becomes available for public inspection. This is an important departure from the previous Patent Office practice and will enable interested parties to examine the correspondence between the Patent Office and the applicant. 
Another important feature of the Bill, and one which will be of considerable value to applicants for both standard and petty patents is the inclusion of a provision for the lodgment of all patent applications in the State capital cities. This will help many applicants for patents to avoid the delays and expense involved in the present requirement to lodge patent applications at the Patent Office in Canberra. Applicants for trade marks and designs have been able to lodge applications in the State capitals for over 60 years. Inventors will now have the same rights. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I will not go further into the procedural aspects of the petty patent system in the Bill. However, it is of considerable practical importance that the new system is capable of immediate use by applicants. In this regard it is important to emphasise that the operation of the new petty patent system will not involve radically new procedures. It will be based on existing expertise and practices in the Patent Office. Business should therefore be able to exploit the full benefits of the system as soon as it is introduced. 
I hope it is clear to honourable members from this brief description that this measure is an extremely innovative development in the Australian patent system. The fundamental purpose of the new petty patent system is to encourage the commercial exploitation of inventions which now go largely unexploited or unprotected or both due to deficiencies in existing patent protection. In the past it has been too easily overlooked that the simple kind of inventions involved constitute a big proportion of patentable inventions. They encompass many areas, particularly in consumer-oriented products which collectively have considerable marketing potential. When the number of inventions involved and the extent of their potential use are considered it is clear that our failure in the past to provide adequate protection for such inventions seriously diminished the effectiveness of the patent system. A large part of the inventive effort of Australians has always been directed to such inventions. It follows that the patent system has not been utilising the product of that effort. 
An indication of the great contribution which petty patent protection may make is available from the experience of other countries. In West Germany 41,000 applications were lodged in 1976 for petty patents as against approximately 62,000 applications for ordinary patents. In Japan 179,000 applications for petty patents were lodged as against 161,000 applications for ordinary patents. The majority of the world 's inventions are in these consumer oriented fields. By way of explanation, I point out that the petty patent system being introduced in this Bill covers the same subject matter as that covered by standard patents. Overseas petty patents have been applied to inventions which are not otherwise patentable. I give that explanation of what otherwise might appear to be a contradiction in referring to the experience of other people while pointing out the unique nature of this legislation. 
Because the particular petty patent system of this Bill is unique and has no counterpart in other industrial property legislation in the world, the introduction of the system is to a large degree experimental. In view of its unique character, it is not possible to predict the exact effects which the system will achieve in practice, although its broad impact is clear enough. This factor is well understood and I assure honourable members of my intention that the system will be continuously monitored with a view to making such alterations as from time to time appear necessary to ensure that the basic aim of assisting innovation and productivity in Australia is fulfilled. I commend the Bill to the House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Before the debate is adjourned, I understand that the honourable member for Hawker is seeking the indulgence of the Chair to ask the Minister for Productivity a question. 
-The Industrial Property Advisory Committee is not itself the subject of legislation. At this stage I see no reason why it need be. The particular representations made to me by the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  were considered by the Committee when it met on Tuesday, which was its first meeting since the honourable member made the representations to me. To be quite frank, I have not heard from the Committee since that meeting but I assure the honourable member that the matter was being considered. I will send him a letter as soon as I hear from the Committee. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I assure you that it was an oversight and I apologise to the Opposition. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, this House of 124 males is being asked to deny medical benefits to females who have had an abortion in accordance with the law. The law is established by State parliaments and interpreted primarily by State courts. This Parliament has jurisdiction only in respect of Commonwealth Territories. Why then do we have this motion before us? Why is this House being asked to deny medical benefits to women having an operation in accordance with the law of the State in which the operation is performed? 
Several reasons have been advanced and I will try to deal with them all in the limited time available. Perhaps the main reason lies in the statement of the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Sydney, Cardinal  Sir James  Freeman. Cardinal Freeman's remarks were widely reported yesterday. The  Age  quoted Cardinal Freeman as saying: 'The Australian Government has a heavy responsibility before God and man to reinforce and positively promote right morality in the community and to undertake the protection of the unborn'. Cardinal Freeman is then reported to have added that he and his bishops wished again to raise their voices in protest against 'the ready availability of abortions in this country and the steady growth in the abortion mentality among its citizens'. 
Other comments made yesterday support this view and show clearly that this Parliament's jurisdiction over health matters is being used in order to try to limit the number of abortions carried out under State law. The comments to which I refer were made last night by the National  President  of the Right to Life Association,  Mrs Judge,  on the radio program  PM  and by the sponsors of this motion, the honourable members for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  and Perth  (Mr McLean),  on the television program  Nationwide.  Their comments could leave one in no doubt that this motion is an endeavour to narrow the effect of State laws and reduce the number of abortions performed in Australia. 
All of us would favour measures which would reduce the number of abortions- especially education regarding sex, contraception and human relationships generally. But this motion is ill founded and it will not be the means whereby abortions are reduced in number. I respect the sincere views of the mover and seconder of this motion, but I do not respect the device which they have chosen to try to achieve a change in the law and practice relating to abortion. These are matters primarily within the responsibility of the State parliaments. 
Australia's present abortion rate is conservatively estimated at 60,000 a year, a fact known to the Government when formulating its current policy for the funding of abortions under the health scheme. The abortion rate has always been of that order and there is no reason to suppose that it would lessen simply because the funding was altered. On the contrary, the abortions would continue but under less satisfactory conditions. Some women would be tempted to go to cheap 'backyard' abortionists, with a consequent risk of physical injury or even death. 
I have no doubt that there will be fewer abortions when there is a greater understanding of contraception and I do not believe that the problems associated with abortions will be solved by denying people the right to recover some of their medical expenses for this operation as they would for any other lawful operation. It would be unconscionable for the Commonwealth Government to deny people the right to recover medical costs incurred when having an abortion in accordance with the law of a State or the Commonwealth. Medical expenses for illegal abortions are not recoverable. The medical funds are not obliged to insure people in respect of abortions but most funds do provide such insurance. Many arguments are raised by people of goodwill against the practice of abortion itself, but it is simply not practicable to oblige women to have children they do not wish to have, and it is not realistic or fair to argue that if a woman did not want a child she should not have become pregnant in the first place. 
It is the essence of democracy and liberalism that governments create a climate in which individuals decide for themselves how they will live their lives. The funding of abortions is available to those who satisfy doctors that they ought to have an abortion. In this respect, therefore, an abortion is in precisely the same situation as any other operation. When abortions occur they ought to be treated like any other operation. Individuals considering having an abortion have access to counselling services and must answer to their own conscience about the issue; it is not for parliaments to impose a particular code of conduct upon individuals in such matters. 
The honourable member for Hume claims that the aim of the motion is to ensure the proper use of Federal funds. But what is a 'proper' use? What constitutes 'endangered life'? The implementation of the motion is fraught with risks of grave inequities, discrimination and massive administrative problems. A reading of pages 134 to 144 of Volume 3 of the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships illustrates the magnitude of these problems when related to the abortion laws of the various States. As this debate is ostensibly dealing with medical benefits I will refrain as much as possible from entering the wider debate on abortion laws and policies but will give one illustration in order to show the effect of this motion. Although the New South Wales law is the most liberal on abortion and is, therefore, the one regarding which most problems will arise, I am answerable to a Victorian electorate and should, perhaps, draw my example from that State. 
The Victorian legislation was interpreted by  Mr Justice  Menhennitt in 1969. Under that ruling a doctor must honestly believe, on reasonable grounds, that it is necessary to perform an abortion because the woman's life or mental or physical health would otherwise be in danger. If he is so satisfied, an abortion is lawful. The State Parliament, recognising that that ruling reflects widely held social values, has not sought to change that interpretation of the law. This House, however, is now being asked to dispute the judgment of the responsible State Parliament and only allow medical benefits to cover abortions 'performed to protect the life of the mother from a physical pathological condition' and where 'the life could be protected in no other way'. Doctors are also asked to certify to that effect, thereby breaching the highly valued confidential relationship between doctor and patient. Furthermore, doctors performing other gynaecological operations, such as curettes or hysterectomies, will have to certify that, in doing so, they did not procure an abortion unless it was to save the woman 's life. 
A curious aspect of the cost-saving approach of this motion is highlighted in this morning's Age in an article written by Claude Forell who points out that, on the logic of this motion, medical benefits ought not to be paid to women for prenatal treatment or for childbirth unless such treatment is to save the woman's life, as such treatment is not prescribed for the 'physical, pathological condition' described in this motion.  Mr Forell  also points out the ways in which the taxpayer will pay more to support unwanted children than is paid for abortions and that, if cost saving is really the purpose of this motion, there are other items in the medical benefits schedule which should be scrutinised ahead of the relatively low expenditure on abortions. 
An editorial in yesterday's  Age  recorded views which I endorse strongly. In referring to the legal, moral and social complexities of the abortion issues, the  Age  was correct. This motion does lack insight. It also lacks compassion for the women who are concerned. It makes no effort to stress the need for advice on family planning and for the prevention of unwanted pregnancies by contraception. It discriminates against the less well off and would not necessarily reduce the number of abortions. 
Those who oppose contraception in Australia are in a very small minority and yet it is that small minority which is sponsoring this motion in an effort to impose its own values on the majority of the community under the guise of cost-saving. The reasons for individual abortions are matters for the patient-doctor relationship. If, in having the abortion, a woman has transgressed a teaching of her church, that is between her and her church. It is not a matter for this Parliament. The separation of Church and State occurred a long time ago. 
Abortion is a serious social problem which poses grave moral problems and great dilemmas for the community as well as for the persons who are directly involved. This motion is not, however, the means whereby such problems can be fairly examined. A debate on the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships would be the most appropriate avenue for an exploration of the issues and possible action by each of the Parliaments concerned. The report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships observed that there was no unified religious view and that social attitudes are also divided. One of the three commissioners was an anglican Bishop,  Dr Felix  Arnott, and the other two were equally distinguished in terms of human experience and intellect. In volume 1, page 54, paragraphs 81 to 84, the report records: 
There is no clear majority favouring prohibition of abortion. We consider that the life of the foetus is different in quality from the life of a human being after binh and that it is valid to take into account the social circumstances of the mother in deciding whether abortion is justified. Although abortion is not seen as desirable, its consequences must be weighed in the balance against the consequences of proceeding with the pregnancy. We do not consider that easier access to abortion should be seen as a substitute for effective contraception or that it would have this result. Improvements in contraceptive services are needed, although they would not necessarily eliminate the need for abortion. In our view the persons best placed to assess the need for abortion are the woman herself and her doctor. The doctor's role is to weigh up the circumstances, to advise of the risks and to ensure proper medical practice. The woman should have counselling to enable her to consider the options free of pressure. 
I hold those views personally and I believe that those findings of the royal commissioners reflect accurately the views of the majority of the community and that it is those views which this Parliament should also reflect. I hope that Parliament will soon be given time to debate that excellent report in depth. The quality of debate on this motion could only have been improved if members had been enabled to consider carefully the sane, principled and practical recommendations contained in that report. One does not have to accept all of its findings to recognise its great worth as a document from which to begin informed analysis rather than reflex rhetoric. 
The nub of the problem is that the community does not agree on precisely what so-called rights' should be accorded to a woman and the foetus she might be carrying. The Right To Life Association expresses with great militancy its conviction that the alleged 'rights' of the foetus prevail over those of the woman carrying it. That Association has waged a campaign of intimidation on members of this House in support of this motion. It has labelled those who do not share its convictions as being 'pro-abortion', but such a label is most unfair. The problems are far more complex than that Association acknowledges and the foetal rights it claims have never been recognised by law in that simple manner. 
I do not know anyone who is pro-abortion. In an ideal world we would not have abortions apart from those induced by nature itself. But we are not now, and are never likely to be, in an ideal world. Certainly the passage of the motion now before the House will not make it so. On the contrary it is likely to aggravate human suffering without reducing the numbers of abortions. I am convinced that the majority of people- perhaps the silent majority- recognise the complexities of the problems relating to the abortion debate. I believe that the preponderant public view in our community is that abortion is most undesirable, the very last resort but sometimes a necessary evil. I do not believe that the majority of people adopt a holier-than-thou approach to a woman who decides, after appropriate counselling and medical advice, that she wants an abortion. The public testimony of women who have had abortions is that it is painful and traumatic. No woman would undertake it lightly and the period of decision-making would be one of great mental anguish for any woman. 
The effect of the motion now before the House would be to place major obstacles in the way of a woman seeking an abortion. For, if she could not satisfy a doctor that her life was in danger from a physical pathological condition', she could not obtain medical benefits for an abortion performed even though her doctor believed that her mental health was endangered. Presumably, even in the event of a mental breakdown a woman is to be denied medical benefits for an abortion unless her life as well as her sanity is endangered. I think that position is quite clear from notes which have been circulated by the honourable member for Hume. I ask: Is he qualified to say whether an operation is medically necessary? Surely it is for the doctors to say whether an operation is medically necessary. 
In short, this motion I believe is punitive in character, it is devious in design and it is utterly impractical. Perhaps, above all, it ill becomes a group of men to tell the women of Australia what their responsibilities are and that they should save their housekeeping money to pay for abortions which are deemed by doctors under State laws to be legally necessary in the interests of the woman 's health. 
Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question 2903  (Hansard  of 24 November 1 978, page 3577). 
(a) None; (b) None; (c) None. 
On official business, none. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The provisions concerning the safety, health and welfare of employees in the asbestos industry are covered by State legislation. Due to differences between the workers ' compensation legislation in each of the States, it is not possible to identify on a national basis the cost of time lost due to asbestos caused diseases or the cost of testing of workers in the asbestos industry for contamination. 
As regards data published by State authorities responsible for compilation of workers' compensation statistics, I am advised that the only information which appears to be of relevance is that published by the New South Wales Workers' Compensation (Dust Diseases) Board. 
In the Board's report for the year ended 30 June 1977, compensation payments were recorded to a total of $308,089 in the employment classification 'Asbestos industry'. This amount included weekly payments to workers including lump sum redemptions ($175,099); payments in respect of hospital, medical and ambulance expenses of disabled workers ($5,154); payments in respect of burials and cremations of deceased workers ($799); lump sums of compensation awarded to independants of deceased workers ($43,224); and weekly payments to dependants of deceased workers ($83,813). It will be noted that this dissection represents payments for specified purposes, and does not give an indication of costs incurred in NSW through time lost. 
The report also indicates that expenditure from the NSW Workers' Compensation (Dust Diseases) Fund in 1976-77 for medical examination of workers was $70,633. However, this amount represents expenditure on behalf of claimants against the Board from all industries covered by the Workers' Compensation (Dust Diseases) Act 1942, and no breakdown by industry classification is given. 
Under these circumstances I regret that, due to lack of information, I am unable to provide a direct reply to the honourable member's question. 
Indexing of 'Hansard' (Question No. 3103) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) I refer the honourable member to the answers provided by the Prime Minister to Question No. 2638  (Hansard,  21 November 1978, page 3156), and Questions Nos 3065 and 3082  (Hansard,  20 February 1979, page 130). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
a ) The following countries have acceded to the European Patent Convention Treaty. In each case, the date of accession is shown in brackets after the respective country: 
Belgium ( 14 July 1977), France ( 1 July 1977), Federal Republic of Germany (7 July 1976), Italy (29 September 1978), Luxembourg (7 July 1977), the Netherlands (28 February 1977), Sweden (17 February 1978), Switzerland (20 April 1977), United Kingdom (3 March 1977). 
Austria, Denmark, Greece, Ireland, Norway, Monaco, Liechtenstein. Austria is expected to ratify the Convention shortly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Heat pump equipment has been developed by many firms in the United States of America and Europe including Lucas Aerospace. 
Yes. 
Heat pumps are available in (a) the United States of America, (b) the United Kingdom, and (c) Australia. 
(a) Heat pumps are available in Australia from single room units to complete home systems and range in price from around $500 to $5,000. 
The thermodynamic efficiency of the heat pump greatly exceeds the conventional heating methods such as electric or gas space heating. 
The principle of the heat pump has been taught at Australian universities for many years, and technical data on heat pumps is available in textbooks as well as from the Refrigeration/Air Conditioning Industry in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by my colleague the Minister for Health in answer to question No. 3302  (Hansard of 28  March 1979, page 1276). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by my colleague the Minister for Health in answer to Question No. 3303  (Hansard of 28  March 1979, page 1277). 
Government Advisory Committee on Adelaide's Airline Requirements  (Question No. 3340) 
For the information of honourable members I present a report of the National Employee Participation Steering Committee entitled 'Employee Participation: A Broad View'. I seek leave to make a statement relating to the report. 
Leave granted. 
I would like to inform the House that in the past 24 hours I have been privileged to participate in two highly important functions both of which had a direct bearing on my portfolio. This morning in Melbourne, the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Bob  Hawke, and the principal employer spokesman,  Mr George  Polites, joined me in launching a slim but significant booklet entitled 'Employee Participation: A Broad View'. This booklet sets out for the first time in Australia on a national level an agreed view on employee participation policy by employers, unions and government. The fact that Bob Hawke and George Polites were prepared to find time to launch this booklet is a testament to the importance they place on the development of a consensus approach to employee participation. 
The other function also involved  Mr Hawke.  We were both guest speakers in Melbourne last night at the Australian Boot Trade Employees Federation centenary dinner. 
-The honourable member for Melbourne Ports was there as well. The presence of a Federal Minister, along with employer representatives, signifies the success of the tripartite approach to the difficulties which have been encountered in the footwear industry. For a long time the footwear industry has been in decline, but that situation is changing. Eighteen months ago my Department initiated a tripartite footwear industry productivity group. Employers and unions sat down with government to discuss their mutual problems. As a result of these deliberations, a consultant was hired and recommendations were made to improve the state of the industry. I am pleased to say that those firms which participated in the program have recorded productivity gains of between 8 per cent and 20 per cent. Consequently some of these firms have increased their work forces, in one case by nearly 200 employees and in another by 400 employees. 
Returning to the booklet, the publisher is the National Employee Participation Steering Committee of which I am the  Chairman  and whose members include the Secretary of the ACTU,  Mr Peter  Nolan, the Director of the National Employers Council of the Confederation of Australian Industry,  Mr Bryan  Noakes, plus other representatives of employer and union peak councils, the Commonwealth Public Service 
Board and government departments. The Committee was established in June 1978 following the adoption by the Commonwealth of an employee participation policy and charter. As a first step, the Steering Committee decided to publish information about employee participation and how it may be achieved. The significance of this publication is that very senior representatives of the peak employer organisations, including the Public Service Board and national trade unionswhite collar, blue collar and professional- have come together in a spirit of co-operation for a highly important common objective. 
The Government sees employee participation as an essential tool for productivity improvement as well as improving the quality of" work life. The restructuring of industry- in order to improve productivity, our competitiveness and our capacity to employ people- involves redesigning and restructuring traditional methods of work. The need for developments in employee participation at the same time as other productivity initiatives is obvious. This booklet is an important step in encouraging management and employees to develop employee participation as part of our changing industrial scene. 'Employee Participation: A Broad View' brings together the views of the Steering Committee members on the nature of employee participation in Australia and the range of aims, forms and processes involved. It is aimed at overcoming some of the confusion and misunderstanding which still exists about the various terms used, and the best methods of implementing those for Australia. The booklet points out that the responsibility for action ultimately lies within individual enterprises and urges employers and employees to take the initiative and jointly work towards the development of new working arrangements. 
I have kept in touch with the State Ministers for Labour who are responsible for these matters and have been heartened by their response. In due course I hope that State governments will be able to endorse the principles outlined in this booklet and thereby work with State employee and union organisations which are already identified with these views through their peak councils. Employee participation and productivity improvement are both about reorganising work so that employees work more effectively. This must involve more two-way communication, information sharing and job redesign so that people are better motivated and derive more job satisfaction. The co-operation and consensus between employers, unions and government, evidenced by the book launching this morning and the dinner last night, means that those objectives are closer to becoming realities rather than merely being cliches. I present the following paper: 
Employee Participation- Ministerial Statement, 8 May 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Street)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
-The Government has considered the report to which the honourable member has referred and also the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the engine works and the type of engine being produced there. The Government has had, through me, several discussions with the trade union movement over the question of the re-employment of people. I can assure the House that none of the employees at the engine works will be short of a job. In fact, advertisements have been placed all around the world. I have had discussions with several members of the Opposition about the matter. The hopeful response in relation to those advertisements leads us to feel that we can sell the engine works as a going concern. The Government does not accept the proposition that those engines are in fact essential for defence purposes, nor does it accept the proposition that the fishing and economic zone is a relevant consideration justifying the works being maintained as a government engine works. We would like to see the engine works maintained but run by a company or a consortium of companies. In fact I have no doubt that the previous Labor Government, had it remained in power just a few months longer, would have arrived at precisely the same conclusion as has this Government. I believe that the interests of all the employees and the interests of the Australian industry in relation to defence and surveillance of fishing zones will be protected by our decision to sell the engine works to a private consortium. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 now before the House proposes amendments to the Customs Tariff Act 1966. The Bill introduces tariff changes foreshadowed by the honourable the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his speech this evening in relation to the imposition of an ad valorem revenue customs duty of 2 per cent on most goods currently imported free of customs duty, including those under Customs By-law items 19 and 25. The 2 per cent revenue customs duty will operate on and from 1 July 1979. Most duty free imports not covered by the following exceptions will be subject to the revenue duty. These exceptions are being made because of international trade commitments and other trade reasons. These exceptions will include goods of New Zealand, Papua New Guinea or developing country origin and goods covered by rates bound under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Crude and enriched petroleum oil also will be exempt as it is further manufactured into products which are then subject to excise duties. 
Certain goods which enter duty free under Schedule 2 of the Customs Tariff Act also will be exempt. For example, motor vehicle components will continue to enter duty free without the imposition of the 2 per cent ad valorem revenue customs duty because of Government commitments in the context of the Motor Vehicle Plan, and the need to avoid disruption to manufacturers' arrangements under this Plan. 'Non-commercial' goods such as outside packages, re-imports, Government purchases et cetera will also be exempt, along with teaching aids, goods used in research programs in tertiary institutions, samples and other goods where the administrative costs of collecting the revenue duty would probably outweigh the revenue collected. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
House adjourned at 10.24 p.m. until 2.15 p.m., Monday, 28 May 1979. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the implementation of the Government's decision, announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his speech to the Parliament on 24 May 1979, that from 1 July 1979 it will increase the existing $18.90 per kilolitre- ($3 per barrel)- excise levy on oil priced at import parity by an amount equal to the increase that will by then have occurred in the import parity price since 3 1 December 1978. As stated by the Treasurer, essentially this measure will provide a self-adjusting mechanism for setting the levy on import parity oil so that the public revenue rather than the Australian producers secure the gains which result from the induced price increases of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. 
This measure, without making any allowance for future OPEC increases, will add an estimated $166m to the revenue in the next financial year without added expense to consumers. Since last year's Budget the oil producers have paid $18.90 per kilolitre- $3 per barrel- excise duty on parity oil. Because this levy was not altered when import parity oil increased in price on 1 January 1979 the total increase benefited producers alone. This measure will enable the levy to increase so that the producers' windfall gains since I January 1979 will not carry on past 1 July 1979. In effect the producers' return for import parity oil will return to the level that existed as at 3 1 December 1978. Obviously, when the Government's policy was set at the time of the last Budget the international events, which since then have greatly accelerated the world price of oil, were not anticipated. Whilst on the one hand the Government has said that the Australian consumer cannot be sheltered from the cost of oil on the world markets, nevertheless it cannot stand by and let windfall gains of the magnitude reflected by the world price increases all go to the Australian oil producers. 
The amendment of section 77m of the Excise Act is to provide the necessary legal machinery whereby the rebate calculation, which currently provides that the producers of parity oil pay a levy fixed at $18.90 per kilolitre-$3 per barrelcan be prescribed by regulation so that the net levy can be adjusted complementary to changes in the import parity price. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
I think the quotation by the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  from the letter of the Minister of Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to the  Deputy  leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  really answers his allegations. If one can quote the  Sydney Morning Herald,  this debate and the contribution by the honourable member for Sydney certainly are airport hot air. To talk of industrial action when the letter from the Minister acknowledges that the report has not been received, let alone acted upon, is irresponsible in the extreme. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has been quoted widely by the media in the last 24 hours as having said at yesterday's meeting: ... I understand a decision has been made by the Federal Government to build a parallel runway at Mascot. 
He has also been quoted as saying: . . . The Government is delaying the announcement until after the federal by-election for Grayndler on June 23. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has also been reported as claiming that a similar aircraft accident to that which happened on Friday in Chicago could occur if Kingsford-Smith airport were extended. He is also reported as having said that there ought to be a trade union ban on the extension work. Certainly the honourable member for Sydney has confirmed that there is going to be further action on 1 July. 
It is quite disgraceful because the honourable member for Sydney should know, as any member of this House is entitled to know, that the study being conducted at Sydney airport in respect of its future or an alternative is a joint study by the Commonwealth Government and the New South Wales Government. As indicated in the letter from the Minister to the 

 Deputy Leader of the Opposition, from which we have heard extracts, this joint study has gone out of its way to call public submissions and to arouse public interest, including trade union interest. There has been remarkably little in the way of constructive submissions to the inquiry. It is a joint study conducted by two governments. The report has not been received by either government. It is not a matter for unilateral action by this Government. There is no report before this Government; there is no report before the New South Wales Government. There is an obligation upon the two governments to consult as soon as they receive the report and then to decide how they will process it. That information is freely available to anybody who asks for it, and it ill becomes the honourable member for Sydney or the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition to make wild statements. 
I wish to make it quite clear that if the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition wishes to come in at any time to make a personal explanation I would be delighted to reply to him then. The fact is that the honourable member for Sydney expressly quoted the  Sydney Morning Herald  and referred to the remarks of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
And expressed his own view, having heard the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. Let me respond to the honourable member for Sydney, who quoted the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I did not come in here with the intention of attacking the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, but he has exposed himself to attack. He has exposed himself to attack. The comment one has to make is that when the  Sydney Morning Herald  refers to 'airport hot air', it provides a service to the community, because it points out the failure- 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I would like to reinforce the views expressed by the  Sydney Morning Herald  in its editorial, when it says: 
In calling yesterday for a total trade-union ban on any future work involving the expansion of Kingsford-Smith Airport, the  Deputy  Leader of the Federal Opposition,  Mr Bowen,  came alarmingly close to abandoning reason in favour of emotion- 
Whether or not the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said what is attributed to him, there have been any amount of media reports in the past 24 hours on the subject. He has not sought to come into the House and disown them by way of a personal explanation. He would have a very strong right of action against some of the media people if he did not say what he is accused of saying. In this case a responsible newspaper is talking about the scare tactics of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition when he talks about a Chicago type crash at Sydney Airport when he knows- if he does not he can soon find out- that the joint committee which is to report to the two governments, the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth Government has not reported, let alone been suppressed because of a by-election. It is really disgraceful conduct and I can only say that I agree with the  Sydney Morning Herald  when it says that his remarks to the Mascot protest meeting were well below the level of responsibility expected of a senior Australian Labor Party spokesman. The editorial went on to state: 
It is inexcusable that  Mr Bowen,  and others of like mind or with the same political interests, should condone the performance of about 300 motorists who mounted, after the protest meeting, something very like a blockade of the international terminal at Mascot- thus, among other things, causing two passengers to miss their flights. Any further action of this kind will rebound sharply on the Labor Party. 
I can only say that the Liberal candidate for the electorate of Grayndler must be delighted at this kind of conduct, and we can only hope that that sort of irrationality continues. In marked contrast to this, members such as the member for St George  (Mr Neil)  have repeatedly, constructively and rationally tried to cope with this problem which affects their constituents every bit as much as it affects the constituents of the Labor Party members to whom the honourable member for Sydney referred. 
I think it is disgraceful that a statement is made alleging that this Government has a report, has made up its mind on the report and is suppressing it until some by-election is over. We do not have the report. When we do have it, in consultation with the New South Wales Government we will make up our minds what to do about it. In the meantime, it is a most serious failure on the part of the Opposition not to find out what the facts are. 
House adjourned at  1 1.10  p.m. 
The honourable member is quite right in drawing attention to the high standard of safety required by the Australian Department of Transport over a number of years. He is also quite right in pointing out that no registered DC 10 aircraft are actually used by Australian airlines. It so happens that currently no DC 10 aircraft are actually in Australia, but the Department of Transport is pursuing inquiries as to the status of the DC 10 aircraft which are in fact licensed to fly into Australia. It is in contact constantly with the world-wide airworthiness system which is a flow of information which is very free and fast between nations on matters such as this. In fact, the Department is currently examining the directives issued by the Federal Aviation Administration in the United States and is inquiring into the status of each of the DC 10 aircraft and the action being taken by the countries and by the airlines which are licensed to fly those aircraft to Australia. Honourable members can be assured that all that can be done is being done and can have confidence in the world-wide airworthiness system, which in fact is responsibly administered for the highest safety standards. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Australian National Railways Act 19171 present the annual report of the Australian National Railways Commission for the years ended 30 June 1976 and 30 June 1977 together with a copy of covering letter from the  Chairman  of the Commission. The reports contain an explanation as to why their presentation was delayed. Essentially this was because of problems associated with amalgamating the accounts of the former Commonwealth railways system and the two transferred State rail systems. A further delay resulted from publication difficulties as explained in the Chairman's letter. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Morris)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the domestic air transport policy review. Honourable members will recall that in October last year the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  presented parts 1 and 2 of the review to the Parliament. Part 1 covered trunk route services and the two-airlne policy, and part 2 covered regional and local commuter air services. These parts have now been consolidated into volume 1 and the appendices to the review reports have been consolidated into volume II. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a response - 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Estate Duty Assessment Amendment Bill 1979, the Gift Duty Assessment Amendment Bill 1979, the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1979, the Pay-roll Tax Assessment Amendment Bill 1 979 and the Pay-roll Tax (Territories ) Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1979 as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of these Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Budget allocation for industrial research and development grants, since the inception of the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board on 1 July 1967, is expressed in real terms in the following table: 
My attention has been drawn to an article which appeared in the  Canberra Times  this morning which does cast some doubt on the airworthiness of the Nomad aircraft. The article makes reference to a fatal accident which occurred at Avalon in 1 976. 1 might say that that accident occurred during an experimental flight with a tail-plane which had been modified and was different from that which is in the production aircraft in use around the world. The modification was designed to improve the short take-off capability of the stretched version of the Nomad, the N24. This modification work was not proceeded with as it has been established that the excellent short field characteristics of both the N24 aircraft and the standard N22 aircraft amply meet the requirements of operators. Honourable members on both sides of the House have long been proud of the Nomad and rightly so. The last three governments have given financial support to this aircraft. I am not aware of any request for funds having been made to government, as the article alleges, for the redesign of the tail-plane into a T configuration, let alone any denial of such a request. 
Nomad aircraft are now flying in regular passenger carrying services and in a range of other applications in a number of countries including Australia. They have been certificated by the Australian Department of Transport and the United States Federal Aviation Administration as well as a number of other airworthiness authorities. All of these authorities regard the Nomad as meeting their airworthiness requirements in both the regular public transport and normal categories. These certifications were granted after critical and intense evaluation by the Department of Transport Flying Operations and Airworthiness Division of the aircraft's flying qualities and design characteristics with particular attention to safety aspects. The certification process means that the design and manufacture of the aircraft, as well as its operation, are strictly controlled by the relevant national airworthiness authorities. The Nomad meets all relevant flight safety standards laid down by those authorities in the countries where it is operating. Nomads are in use by seven government departments and instrumentalities. 
I incorporate in  Hansard  a document in respect of customer satisfaction regarding the performance of the Nomad aircraft. 

 The document read as follows- 

REPEAT ORDERS 
A significant indication of the acceptance of the Nomad as a product can be gauged from those customers who have placed subsequent orders for aircraft after a period of sampling the capability of their first aircraft. 
A list of these customers and the number of re-orders is set out below: 
Douglas Airways (PNG)- Four separate purchases 
Club Air (Australia)- Purchase of a second Nomad six months after the first 
Provincial (PNG)- Second aircraft twelve months after first 
Geosearch (Australia)- Purchase a second aircraft nine months after the acquisition of the first 
RFDS, NSW Section- Purchased a second aircraft two months after first 
Indonesian Navy- Initial acquisition- six Searchmaster B Nomads, repeat six Searchmaster B Nomads two years later (The Indonesian Government has recently requested the provision of a further six Nomads- to a total of 18- under Defence Aid; these last six to be Searchmaster L) 
TESTIMONIALS 
The following verbatim quotations have been extracted from GAF correspondence files: 
Testimonial from Royal Flying Doctor Service, NSW Section: 
At the handover of the first Nomad aircraft to the Royal Flying Doctor Service, NSW Section in mid 1978,  Dr Golland,  the  Chairman,  referred to the basis of selection of Nomad for this role. He indicated that the aircraft had been chosen entirely on its merits and the equipment selection did not have any relationship to the source of funding for the RFDS operations. A thorough evaluation was carried out of a large range of aircraft and the decision in favour of Nomad was made on the basis of economy of operation, maintenance record, the most suitable fuselage layout which was judged to be ideal for RFDS purposes and other capabilities available with Nomad. 
Ken Simmelink, Vice President- Asia, Missionary Aviation Fellowship 
Our Nomad N22B has been in operation in Irian Jaya, Indonesia for just over 13 months. During that time it has flown more than 1000 hours in some of the most rugged terrain in the world. It has flown in and out of 400 metre mountain airstrips with payloads of up to 3000 lb. Well over 800 hours were flown in emergency earthquake relief operations carrying more than 900,000 lb of food and other relief supplies to earthquake victims in the remote mountains and canyons of Irian Jaya. 
I just want to report the Nomad has not let us down. It has, in fact, surpassed our expectations. Performance is all that you said it would be- and more. Our maintenance has been minimal. We in MAF salute the GAF. You have designed and built a truly rugged, high performing aircraft. It meets all our requirements. ' 
Peter Brown, Managing Director of the Wewak-based Independent Air Transport 
The Nomad is basically an easy aircraft to maintain and, when necessary, repair. Most notable is its very good economy of operation. We mainly fly out of rough strips. Another plus for the aircraft is ease of loading. We don't use the STOL capability-very few strips need that. But we like the aeroplane essentially for its economy, and because, for the size of the aircraft, it's extremely easy to maintain. ' 
Dennis Douglas, Managing Director of Port Moresby-based Douglas Airways 
This aeroplane is a good money maker now and will prove in time to be an excellent money maker. The Allison is an excellent engine. It's perfect in this aircraft in the hot and high environment we have up here. We've had really big savings on fuel through its very low consumption, and we look forward to even more once avgas becomes even more scarce in remote areas. In the long term I think aircraft will all be powered by turbines, and the Allison's consumption is way down on the PT6 on the Twin Otter. I've bought two Nomads and they are flying 1800 hours per year over all types of strips. I 've got two more on order. 
John Laffan, Ferry Pilot, Superior Air Service 
I have delivered over 30 of the Nomads sold around the world- to Europe, the Philippines, South America and the USA, across both Atlantic and Pacific. I have not had one serious problem with the aircraft even at high ferry overloads, through severe turbulence, and in heavy icing during winter months around Iceland, Greenland, Northern Canada and Scandinavia. All delivery deadlines have been achieved on schedule. 
The aircraft is reliability and safety personified. ' 
Swanson, Managing Director, Club Air Pty Limited 
The following is an extract from letter to Mobil Oil, Libya. 
 I would find it hard to convey my total appreciation of the aircraft as there are many aspects that I will not be able to mention. 
Although we have had a little trouble at the start I feel that the engine is in fact very reliable. We are conducting 12 sectors a day with one aircraft and after 700 hours we have had only two non starts. One was a faulty ignitor box and the second a faulty fuel control unit. I consider this very acceptable. The fuel control unit has caused some problem in the past, however, they now know what the problem is and it should be no real problem in the future (I might add that the problem is a slow start one and is evident a while before it fails totally.) Check valves also play up with the oil dripping out of the exhaust- we carry spares. 
Airframe. Once again what aircraft has not any faults. The aircraft is built like the proverbial Brick Barn with only a few areas that require attention. The use of pop rivet in some areas is of doubtful merit as these work and require replacement. Undercarriage will take anything and only the micro switches can be a problem (we have had two go because of water) however, the new production aircraft, I understand, have had these removed and resited on the actuator in the stubwing- no more problem. 
Pilot's Aeroplane- Beautiful to fly, remarkable performance. However, if you are asking me for my opinion- I have now purchased my second Nomad. ' 

 Honourable members interjecting; 

Suspension of Standing Orders 
I really must refer to the extraordinary behaviour of the Opposition half an hour ago, when this motion to suspend Standing Orders was moved and the Government said that I would be willing to make a statement. We have gone through an extraordinary charade of moving a motion to suspend Standing Orders to which we said that we would agree. The honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  told us that we have in some way destroyed the processes of this House. 
For the information of honourable members I present the investigation report of the Department of Transport Air Safety Branch on the accident to a Portenovia aircraft operated by Speedair Pty Ltd near Essendon Airport on 10 July 1978. I present this report in accordance with an undertaking given by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  last year, but I should indicate that only a limited number of copies are available and that they have been placed in the 
Parliamentary Library for the information of honourable members. The Department of Transport will be sending individual copies to all members within the next two weeks. 
I also present for the information of honourable members a document entitled Collisions with Utility Poles- Summary Report' prepared under contract by Fox, Good and Joubert of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Melbourne University, for the Office of Road Safety within the Department of Transport. 
by leave- On 24 February 1977 the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation decided to conduct an inquiry into and report on: 'The adequacy of arrangements to prevent and deal with oil spills in Australian waters'. The thrust of this inquiry was directed at oil pollution from ships, off-shore operations and shore based oil installations. The main government submissions were provided by the Department of Transport and what is now the Department of Science and the Environment. The major government initiative for dealing with the control, prevention and abatement of oil spills was the establishment of the national plan to combat pollution of the sea by oil. The plan had been operating since 1973, being administered by the Department of Transport in co-operation with the States and the oil industry, and funded by a levy on the shipping industry. The Committee recognised the value of the plan in its report and recommendations. The Committee tabled its findings on 26 October 1 978. 
The inquiry was the first independent look at Australia 's capability to deal with oil pollution. In preparing the report the Committee drew not only on evidence from Commonwealth departments and authorities but sought and received information from responsible State authorities, the oil and shipping industries and interested private organisations and individuals. The result is a balanced view of the situation as it now exists. It is clear to me however that the Committee had a difficult task in combining the different interpretations of the oil pollution situation. On the operational side, both government and private witnesses expressed the view that, although the possibility exists of large scale pollution from shipping, off-shore operations or land installations, experience has shown that the risk factors are extremely low. This is due to the low density of shipping around Australia and to the operating procedures followed on off-shore platforms and at shore installations. Those responsible for environmental matters on the other hand stressed that the possibility of oil spills from these various sources is nevertheless always present. 
The report acknowledges that the national plan to combat pollution of the sea by oil is an effective program at a realistic level which can, when required, deal with pollution incidents from other sources. The report in its recommendations called for action by a number of departments. These are set out in a paper which I will table with this statement. These recommendations have been carefully considered by the Government and I would like to outline briefly for the House the results which have been agreed. At the time when the report was tabled, the Department of Transport and the Departments of Education and Science and the Environment had already put into action eight of the recommendations. These are the ones dealing with tanker safety training; reporting of suspect shipping; official register of suspect shipping; encouragement to States to bring their legislation up to date; national plan equipment; involvement of environmental officers in incidents; register of oil cargo and spill information; and monitoring of international developments. Another five recommendations have since been adopted by the Government and are being implemented. These deal with: The provision of navigation aids; national plan involvement in incidents flowing from off-shore or shore based activities; reports on usage and success of dispersants; review of priorities regarding marine science research; and examination of the need for increased marine source research. 
The Government has also agreed on the desirability of the following recommendations but any decision as to their implementation would depend on further discussion and investigation either locally or overseas or in some instances on availability of funds, such as: Ratification of the International Convention on Training, Certification and Watch Keeping for Seafarers; use of satellites; ratification of the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage 1 969; equitable basis for contribution by offshore and land based installations; research program for monitoring pollution; compulsory pilotage; restricted areas around off-shore platforms; widening of recommended tracks on navigation charts; increased funds for hydrography work; and extension of national plan to other hazardous substances. The recommendation dealing with ratification of the International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage 1971 has a number of constitutional and financial aspects which need yet to be resolved. The recommendation on cargo tagging is still under consideration. 
The recommendation proposing the establishment of a more equitable formula for the levy on ships cannot be implemented at this time. This recommendation suggests that a more equitable formula should be devised for imposing the levy on the shipping industry and in particular that tanker operators should pay a larger share. This view is not accepted by the Department of Transport or by the shipping industry. Statistics indicate that in Australian waters tankers are no more frequently the source of marine pollution than other vessels. The recommendation dealing with research in toxicity of dispersant and oildispersant mixtures will also not be proceeded with for the time being but will be kept under consideration pending developments. The Department of Transport has called tenders for bioassay testing of the toxicity of dispersants and oil dispersant mixtures in 1978 but did not proceed with the project. This decision was reached after detailed discussion between an expert member of the Maritime Services Advisory Committee- National Plan- and scientificauthorities in West Germany, the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States. The Government wishes to express its appreciation of the work done by the Committee and in particular for the value of the recommendations. 
I now table this statement to which is attached the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation on oil spills. I present the following paper. 
Oil Spills-Ministerial Statement, 7 June 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Groom)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Applications were submitted to the Minister for Transport with copies to the Department. 
(a) See table. 
b ) Airlines announced the increases. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
See table. 
Relevant airline revenue and cost data. 
Officers of the Air Transport Policy Division participating in the examination are listed in the table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given to his Question No. 3465 on 2 1 March 1979 on the same topic. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) No Department of Transport staff are involved with the transit of passengers and baggage at Australia's international airports. 
b) No additional airport terminal security staff have been appointed by my Department at Australia's international airports since 1 February 1979. 2 (a) and (b) As stated in 1 (a) above, no Department of Transport Staff are involved with passenger and baggage handling at Australia's international airports. 
The transit of passengers and baggage for each international airline operating in Australia is handled by either the airline's own staff located at the international airport or by Ansett Airlines, Trans-Australia Airlines, or Qantas Airways staff on behalf of the particular international airline. 
For your information, Qantas passenger and baggage handling staff establishment levels at each of Australia's international airports and actual staff numbers are detailed below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The minimum number of cabin attendants carried on any Australian airline aircraft is based on two requirements: 
Firstly, on aircraft carrying more than fifteen passengers the ratio of cabin attendants to passengers shall not be less than one for each 36 passengers or part thereof. 
Secondly, an emergency evacuation demonstration to the satisfaction of the Department of the full complement of passengers and crew is required in respect of aircraft carrying more than 44 passengers. The evacuation must be completed in 90 seconds and the number of cabin attendants carried on passenger flights may not be less than the number utilised during the demonstration. 
The only reason for the requirement to carry cabin attendants is passenger safety. The operator is required to train each cabin attendant in accordance with the functions they are required to perform in normal operations and in an emergency such as emergency evacuation. The specific duties of each cabin attendant can and does vary from operator to operator and from aircraft to aircraft but includes ensuring that passengers hand luggage is safely stowed, seat belts are fastened at the appropriate times, demonstrating safety requirements and that smoking prohibitions are observed. 
The minimum number of cabin attendants is: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The Department of Transport has granted a number of approvals, since the announcement of the withdrawal of the Electra, to general aviation operators to carry freight over the route. 
Appropriation for the 1976 Census (Question No. 3842) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The B747 simulator was hired in accordance with the Department's airline surveillance program, which, in part, requires officers to exercise judgement in approving airline training programs. 
The simulator time will be used by two officers of the Department to evaluate the efficacy of the simulator in replacing certain aircraft training tasks. 
3 ) Total training time under this contract was 3 hours. 
Yes. 
Qantas operate the only simulator of this type in Australia. Because calling of tenders is impracticable, contracts for B747 simulator dme are awarded to Qantas in accordance with the provisions of Finance Regulation 52AA(4). 
Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Quantities to be purchased under each contract are: 
S 123 1-1 70,000; 
SI 234- 1,600; 
SI 236- 1,235; 
S1240-900. 
All items to be supplied under these contracts are of Australian manufacture. However, with the exception of folders being purchased under SI 23 1, manufacturers use rings imported from England. 
3 ) S 1 23 1 -6 months. S1234, S1236, S1240-12 months. 
Types of items being purchased and end users are as follows: 
SI23 l-(a) Folder, road safety, titled 'Cycle Safety'. 
Primary and secondary schools throughout Australia. 
S1234-(a) Binder, 21 ring, strawboard, PVC covered, titled 'Airways Operations Instructions'. 
b ) Airways Operations staff. 
S1236-(a) Binder, 3 ring, strawboard, PVC covered, titled 'Air Navigation Orders'. 
Departmental Flying Operations and Airworthiness staff, and for sale to the aviation industry. 
S1240-(a) Binder, 3 ring, strawboard, PVC covered, titled 'Aerodrome Emergency Procedures'. 
Operational staff associated with airports. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) At the April 1 979 meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council (ATAC) the New South Wales and South Australian Transport Ministers indicated that their Governments would proceed through State legislation to introduce more stringent motor vehicle emission controls. The exact details of the measures which New South Wales and South Australia intend to adopt have not so far been advised. 
If the measures to be adopted are equivalent to those originally proposed for stage 3 of ADR 27A I understand that there will be a significant increase in the average fuel consumption of new vehicles. 
The Commonwealth's concern over the fuel effect of vehicle emission controls and on the conservation of liquid fuels generally has been discussed with the States at the Australian Transport Advisory Council and at other Ministerial meetings. However, the responsibility for emission controls rests with State and Territory governments and as indicated, these two States feel it is necessary to bring in more stringent motor vehicle emission controls in this way. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
From 1962-63 to 1975-76 labour productivity for manufacturing industry is assessed to have grown at an average annual rate of 3.6 per cent. In this context labour productivity was taken as the average growth in Gross Manufacturing Product (at constant prices) per person employed. (Figures for periods more recent than 1975-76 are not available.) 
In the period 1962-63 to 1975-76 the average growth rate of Gross Domestic Product at constant prices is estimated to be 5.3 percent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The DC9 simulator was hired in accordance with the Department's safety surveillance program, which requires Examiners of Airmen to maintain proficiency on the various types of regular public transport aircraft. 
2 ) Total training time under this contract was 5 hours. 
The simulator time will be used by one of the Examiners of Airmen, of the Regular Public Transport Branch, whose duties are concerned with the oversight of DC9 operations in Australia. 
Trans Australia Airlines operate the only simulator of this specific aircraft type in Australia. Because calling of tenders is impracticable, contracts for DC9 simulator time are awarded to TAA in accordance with the provisions of Finance Regulation S2AA(4). 
Yes. 
Nil. 
Hire of  DHC  6 Aircraft  (Question No.  3867) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The DHC 6 aircraft was hired in accordance with the Department's safety surveillance program, which requires Examiners of Airmen to maintain proficiency on the various types of regular public transport aircraft. 
Total flying time under this contract was three hours. 
3 ) The flying time will be used by one of the Examiners of Airmen of the Regular Public Transport Branch whose duties are concerned with the oversight of DHC 6 operations by domestic airlines. 
As indicated in (2) above, this contract involved only ad hoc short-term hire. 
Payment in full, nett, following receipt of the contractor's claim for payment and completion/certification of flying time. 
Nil. Trans Australia Airlines is the only Regular Public Transport operator of this specific type in Queensland. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
) The matter is at present under consideration and I am not in a position to say when an announcement may be made. 
Not applicable. 
Tarcoola/Alice Springs Railway Line  (Question No.  4145) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government's recent decision to accelerate the construction program should allow the line to be completed in November 1980. 
The Australian National Railways will inaugurate passenger services on the standard gauge line to Alice Springs when construction is completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) In April Qantas operated one service via Sydney to London and another with a connection to a Qantas flight in Singapore each week. The same situation existed during February. There has been no reduction in services offered to Brisbane passengers. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The B727 simulator was hired in accordance with the Department's safety surveillance program, which requires Examiners of Airmen to maintain proficiency on the various types of regular public transport aircraft. 
The simulator time will be used by three of the Examiners of Airmen, of the Regular Public Transport Branch, whose duties are concerned with the oversight of B727 operations in Australia. 
Total training time under this contract was twelve hours. 
Yes. 
5 ) Ansett Airlines of Australia operate the only simulator of this aircraft type in Australia. Because calling of tenders is impracticable, contracts for B727-200 series simulator time are awarded to AAA in accordance with the provisions of Finance Regulation 52AA (4). 
Nil.  1978-79 Estimates  (Question No. 3152) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is true that of the patent applications of Australian origin which initially or ultimately have a complete specification associated therewith, less than 1 S per cent are lodged by relatively large companies. What percentage of the remainder are lodged by small business or by individual inventors cannot be ascertained from figures kept by the Patent Office, since firms and partnerships as distinct from companies are not permitted by the Patents Act to apply for patents in their own name, but only in the name or names of the individual owner or partners. 
The Industrial Property Advisory Committee as presently constituted comprises people expert in industrial property with either professional or industry background. The original Cabinet approval for the establishment of the Committee set out the number of long-term members. These members have all been appointed. I am reluctant at this time to increase the long-term membership of the Committee for reasons of financial restraints. 1 would however expect that in the future there will be a need for short-term appointments to the Committee where a particular reference would require the views of persons in small business and consumer groups. When such occurs consideration will be given to the shortterm appointment of a member from the small business sector. 
The Franki Committee made considerable efforts to discover whether there was a significant number of articles which were not capable of patent or design protection, or which were not adequately protected by existing industrial property legislation, and which merited adequate protection. The Committee found that there was no significant gap in the protection available in Australia. The Franki Committee considered and in fact rejected any approach to vary the quantum of invention required for a petty patent and this is clear from paragraph 27 and section 3 of the Franki Committee Report. 
I therefore see no reason at this time to take any action in this regard. The operation of the petty patent legislation will however be monitored with a view to possible modification in the light of practical experience of the effects of the legislation. 
The question of effective provisions for the granting of extensions of time under section 160 of the Patents Act is under consideration by officers of my Department. The Patent Office has initiated discussions with interested organisations, in particular the Institute of Patent Attorneys of Australia and the Australian Manufacturers Patents, Industrial Designs, Copyright and Trade Mark Association, with a view to reviewing all extensions of time and restoration provisions of the Patents Act and Regulations, and has requested the views of those organisations. When those views have been presented and discussions are completed, 1 expect to seek Cabinet approval for the introduction of appropriate amending legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1975-one, 1976-one. Conducted by Working Environment Division of the Department of Productivity prior to the formation of the Department. 1977- five. 1978- eight. 1979-five. Total-twenty. 
Of the twenty, two are incomplete. 
(a) See table. 
See table. 
Where outside organisations were engaged the costs incurred are indicated in the table. In the cases where the surveys were made by the Department of Productivity all expenses were met from within the Department's salary, travel and administrative votes. The duties performed in relation to the polls and surveys form a minor part of the functions carried out by the relevant areas. As no separate records were kept in relation to the performance of these tasks it is not possible to assess the cost. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Under a 1 975 agreement with Pritchard Steam Power Pty Ltd, the Commonwealth, at no cost to the Company, manufactured at Bendigo Ordnance Factory 3 steam power units; during the latter half of 1977 they were delivered to the Company. The engines were made in accordance with the Company's design and drawings and incorporated features which had been developed by  Mr E.  Pritchard and his father over a number of years. Title to these engines rests in the Company; responsibility for testing and for funding the testing also lies with the Company. 
I understand that in drawing up the agreement both sides felt the importance of obtaining verifiable results from a power unit which would be built to approved engineering standards. They also envisaged that further development of the unit would take place, and in particular that the Company would road test an especially designed car powered by such a unit. 
The Company was unable to raise sufficient money for its proposed testing program, and in 1976 approached the Commonwealth and Victorian Governments for assistance. In July 1977 I announced a Commonwealth/State grant of $150,000 ($100,000 from the Commonwealth and $50,000 from the State of Victoria) as a contribution towards the cost of the Company's proposed testing program; these grants are covered by a further agreement. 
The Company has now spent this grant without having completed the agreed testing program on the power units. The whole program is well behind schedule and budget despite revision; the Company has not managed to raise the funds necessary to enable testing to continue, and work on a unit installed in the car has made little progress. 
Although substantial progress has been made in the design and construction of the car itself, it has not yet been on the road. However  Mr Pritchard  has found it necessary, in attempting to carry out the testing program, to make substantial use of the hardware of all three engines. 
Other than the manufacture of the engines at Bendigo, the entire management of the program to date has been in the hands of  Mr Pritchard. 
From information I have received it seems clear that he has been beset by quite a number of annoying and timeconsuming mechanical difficulties which, although perhaps not insurmountable, have hindered the progress of his steam car project. 
, (3), (4) and (5) Commonwealth expenditure has been as follows: 
I move 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Since the creation of a portfolio specifically directed to improving Australian productivity, the present Government has viewed the role of industrial property in this country as being essentially a mechanism for assisting Australian industrial development and, as such, included it in that portfolio. As the Minister responsible, I have previously introduced into this House a number of Bills for the purpose of increasing the effectiveness of various aspects of industrial property legislation in assisting the development and performance of Australian industry. The present Bill represents a major step in the continuation of that process and I believe its introduction constitutes one of the most significant developments in the history of the Australian patent system. 
Honourable members may remember that Cabinet gave its approval earlier this year for 
Australian participation in the Patent Cooperation Treaty following the commencement of the operation of that Treaty on 1 June 1978. The introduction of the present Bill is intended to give effect to that decision by amending the Patents Act to bring Australian patent law into conformity with the provisions of the Treaty in order to permit accession to the Treaty by Australia later this year. 
The amendment of the Patents Act necessary to provide the required conformity with the Patent Co-operation Treaty can be largely achieved by recognising patent applications lodged in accordance with the Treaty and seeking protection in Australia as applications under the Patents Act. Essentially, the Bill provides such amendment and its immediate result is therefore to introduce a further, optional procedure for applicants in lodging either an application for a standard patent or an application for a petty patent under the Patents Act. However, by permitting Australian accession to the Patent Co-operation Treaty, the consequence of the Bill will be a major modification of operation of the Australian patent system by introducing into that system the various operations provided under the Treaty. The Bill therefore has a significance extending far beyond the actual terms of its provisions and the purpose behind its introduction is to obtain for Australian inventors and industry the collective benefits available from the participation of the various countries party to the Treaty. 
The question of Australian accession to the Treaty has been widely canvassed amongst interested parties. Without exception, Australian industry has appreciated the benefits to be obtained from participation in the Treaty and expressed unqualified support for Australian accession. Within some quarters, however, individual elements have viewed the Patent Co-operation Treaty as an unwelcome development and the prospect of Australian accession as a misconceived political intrusion into the functioning of the patent system. Personally, I believe such opposition as has arisen has been motivated more by a fearfulness in coping with change rather than an objective assessment of the consequences of the changes involved. Nevertheless, the effects of the Patent Co-operation Treaty on the Australian patent system are potentially so important that a clear understanding of operation of the Treaty is required. Accordingly, in order to enable the significance of this Bill to be properly appreciated, it is appropriate, I think, to summarise briefly the background and operation of the Treaty. 
Essentially,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Patent Co-operation Treaty- or to introduce its more convenient abbreviation, the PCT- represents the first internationally accepted mechanism for rationalising the essential operations involved in the grant of patents by individual countries and having an acceptable degree of validity. That rationalisation is achieved through the collective adoption by the member countries of the procedures prescribed in the Treaty and its associated regulations. At the commencement of its operation, 18 countries were party to the Treaty. In the brief interval since then, a further six countries have acceded and there are now 24 participating countries. The participants include major industrialised countries, such as the United States of America, the countries constituting the European Economic Community, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Japan; middle order countries of the kind to which Australia belongs, such as Sweden and Austria; major developing countries such as Brazil; and underdeveloped countries, such as Cameroon, Congo and Madagascar. Like Australia, a number of countries, including Canada, Spain and the Republic of Korea are either amending or considering amending their legislation for the purpose of acceding to the Treaty. Accordingly, notwithstanding the problems inherent in establishing any new co-operative enterprise, the degree of acceptance which the Treaty has already achieved virtually assures its role as the major vehicle for international co-operation in the processing of patents, as well as being a dominant factor in determining the course of future development of national patent systems throughout the world, including the Australian patent system. 
Accession has acquired a special significance for Australia. At their meeting in Geneva earlier this year, the member countries approved the appointment of the Australian Patent Office as one of the major functional bodies created by the Treaty. In that role, the Australian Patent Office will join the European Patent Office, and the patent offices of the United States, the USSR, Japan, Sweden and Austria in providing other member countries with the technical services established by the Treaty. Resulting from that decision, the specialised facilities and expertise developed by the Patent Office under the Treaty will also be available for utilisation by all Australian inventors as well as for the benefit of Australian industry. Moreover, in offering these facilities to applicants from other member countries- an offer which has, at least initially, been confined to developing countries- this country will be provided with a new facility for materially assisting such countries in introducing and operating effective patent systems with the resultant consequential benefits, not only for their own national development but also for Australian industry in exploiting its technology in those countries within the framework of an effective mechanism of protection. 
The rationalisation of the operations of the patent systems of member countries which is achieved by the PCT affects four major areas involving operations which are basic to the provision of effective protection in any country in which a patent is sought. So far as the first area is concerned, the grant of a patent in any particular country is essentially dependent upon the submission of a report for such a grant To date, the procedural operations of national patent systems have been independent to the extent that every country has required a separate application for the grant of protection in that country. 
The PCT rationalises that procedure, firstly, by requiring each member country to adopt uniform procedure and criteria in recognising applications invoking the Treaty and, secondly, by integrating the separate applications for each country in which protection is sought into a single application which is collectively effective as an individual application in every such country. As the international application under the PCT may be lodged in the patent office of the country in which he resides, the applicant is relieved of the necessity of communicating with overseas patent offices and complying with different and unfamiliar procedures before his application for protection is recognised as such. The benefits for Australian applicants desiring foreign patent protection are self-evident. 
In the second phase, the PCT recognises the universal nature of the requirement that the validity of a patent is dependent upon whether the patented invention is new. And, since it is generally accepted that the grant of invalid patents significantly diminishes the effectiveness of a patent system, most countries providing such protection require each application to be subject to a prior determination as to whether the invention is new before a patent is granted. That determination is invariably based on a more, or less, extensive investigation of existing technical knowledge by the national patent office and an assessment of the patentability of the invention in the light of that knowledge. 
In practice, the information determining the newness of an invention as regards its patentability in a particular country as well as the criteria upon which patentability is assessed, are essentially the same for every country. Accordingly, where protection is sought for an invention in a number of countries, the patent office of each country concerned effectively duplicates the same investigations and assessments in determining whether the invention is sufficiently new to be patentable in that country. The PCT eliminates such duplication by appointing a limited number of patent offices to undertake the investigation of prior technical disclosures for the purpose of determining the newness of the inventions in applications lodged under this Treaty and, if requested by the applicant, to provide an assessment of the patentability of the invention in the light of those investigations. The results of those investigations and assessments are supplied to all the member countries in which the applicant wishes to obtain protection. 
Under the Treaty to date, six patent offices, designated as international searching authorities, have been appointed to undertake the investigation of technical disclosures relevant to determining the newness of an invention. A similar number of offices, designated as international preliminary examining authorities, have been appointed for assessing the patentability of an invention on the basis of the result of such investigation. Following accession, the Australian Patent Office will constitute both a searching and an examining authority and will be authorised to perform the functions of those authorities for both Australian applicants under the Treaty and for applicants from developing countries. With the transfer of a major part of the operations of patent offices to searching authorities and preliminary examining authorities, the PCT is able to exploit a further rationalisation of the procedures involved in the prosecution of patent applications arising from the cost reduction achieved by eliminating the previous duplication of the operations transferred to those authorities. 
The Treaty conveys benefits of that rationalisation to applicants by requiring the patent offices of the countries in which protection is sought to defer examination of applications lodged under the Treaty and by providing each applicant with the results of the investigation and assessment of the relevant searching and examining authorities prior to the commencement of examination. By virtue of that provision, applicants may avoid incurring the costs of prosecuting applicants for which valid protection cannot be obtained. This procedure will not only benefit applicants, including Australian applicants, seeking protection through the medium of the Patent Co-operation Treaty but also it will relieve patent offices, including the Australian Patent Office, of much of the load involved in unnecessarily examining applications which are inherently unpatentable. 
Finally, the PCT rationalises the operations associated with the publication and dissemination of the technical details of the inventions which are sought to be protected through the Treaty. One of the basic features of a patent system is the disclosure of the technical details of patented inventions to the public, the purpose being, partly, to avoid infringement of patent monopolies but primarily to provide national industry with sufficient information to enable inventions to be freely exploited on expiry of the patent. Accordingly, where protection of an invention is sought in a number of countries, the patent office of each of those countries incurs the costs in producing for the benefit of the public the documents disclosing the technical details of that invention. The PCT eliminates the costs arising from that duplication by making a single authority responsible for the publishing and printing of applications lodged under the Treaty and for distributing the resultant documents to all member countries. To bring home the potential significance of this aspect of the Treaty, I need only point to the fact that approximately one million new patent documents are currently generated each year throughout the world. Those documents, however, involve fewer than 400,000 different inventions. On the basis of those figures there is potentially an enormous cost benefit to be obtained through utilisation of the PCT. When it is realised that approximately 90 per cent of Australian patent specifications involve inventions which are also published overseas, it is obvious that the Australian patent system is potentially a major beneficiary from this aspect of the PCT. 
I hope that that necessarily brief and simplified explanation of the PCT will enable the significance of the present Bill to be fully appreciated. I apologise for taking the time of the House on this explanation. Unfortunately, the technicalities of the Treaty are such that without some explanation the terms of the Treaty which are annexed to the Bill convey about as much information to an ordinary reader as a Chinese laundry ticket. However, even with the simplified explanation I have given, it should be evident that the PCT is essentially a mechanism for rationalising procedural features of the patent systems of member countries through mutual cooperation. As such, it involves no change to the philosophy on which those systems are based. In that respect, the Treaty merely implements longestablished principles governing international co-operation in industrial property. In so doing, one of its major results will be to increase the impact of those principles on the patent systems of member countries and part of the opposition to Austraiian accession derives from the presumed adverse nature of that impact on Austraiian industry. 
The proponents of that view acknowledge the benefits of the Treaty in assisting Australian inventors to obtain increased protection in other countries. Conversely, however, they claim that the corresponding assistance given to overseas inventors will increase the number of Australian patents granted to overseas patentees. As a result of those patents, many overseas inventions previously published but not patented in Australia and which can therefore be freely utilised by Australian industry will no longer be accessible to industry. That objection raises the direct question of the effect of foreign participation on the Austraiian patent system. Just how significant this question is may be gauged from the fact that approximately 90 per cent of all Australian patents granted each year are granted to overseas patentees. However, since the argument also implies that patents themselves disadvantage Australian industry, it raises the much more basic issue of the value of the Australian patent system as a mechanism for assisting national development. These questions are too important to ignore because their answers bear directly on the present Bill and, by enabling Australia to accede to the PCT, one of the major purposes of the present Bill is to assist increased utilisation of the Australian patent system. 
In answering these questions, it is important to note that by facilitating foreign participation in national patent systems, such as that of Australia, the PCT is designed to achieve in practice an objective that was recognised as inherently beneficial in principle almost 100 years ago when the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property was introduced. The essential feature of that convention was, and still is, the commitment by each member country to grant to the nationals of every other member country the same treatment and protection under its national industrial property laws as it provides to its own nationals. So far as patents are concerned, that commitment reflects the acknowledgment by the member countries of the convention that the effectiveness of the patent system of any country is primarily dependent upon the extent to which the system is utilised by inventors. Moreover, it also reflects the further recognition that the effectiveness of a patent system is in no way dependent upon the territorial origin of an invention or the nationality of a patentee and that those factors are essentially irrelevant to the operation of a patent system. The importance of the extent of utilisation in contributing to the effective operation of their patent systems is appreciated by most countries and is indicated by the fact that 88 countries are currently party to the Paris convention. Australia has been a member since 1907 and the extent of the contribution made by overseas inventors to the effectiveness of the Australian patent system is evident from the fact, as I have said, that over 90 per cent of Australian patents granted annually are granted to patentees domiciled outside Australia. Not unexpectedly, Australia is not alone in this regard and, in practice, foreign participation is a significant and generally the dominant factor in determining the extent of utilisation of almost every national patent system. 
The objection to increased participation by overseas applicants as diminishing the accessibility of foreign inventions to Australian industry is therefore, in principle, not an objection to the PCT, but a criticism of the effectiveness of the Australian patent system as a vehicle for assisting exploitation of inventions by Australian industry. In assessing the validity of such criticism, it should be understood that the essential justification for the grant of patents has always been considered to lie primarily in the assistance that the resultant exclusive monopolies provide for the commercial introduction and exploitation of new technology achieved, firstly, by the initial availability of a competition free market to the owners of the technology and, secondly, by providing industry with unrestricted access to that technology on expiry of the monopoly through the publication of sufficient practical details by the Patent Office to permit utilisation of the technology. In my view, the motivation provided by the economic rewards obtainable from a commercial monopoly makes the patent system, in principle at least, the most effective incentive devised to date for the exploitation of new technology by industry. Naturally, the machinery of the patent system requires to be geared to the current needs of industry, for example, by providing protection consistent with the scope of modern technology or making available protection of a kind which can be economically exploited by industry. Such needs tend to change with time and it was the appreciation of such changing needs that formed the basis for my recent introduction of petty patents into the Australian patent system as an optional form of protection. 
Ultimately, however, the measure of the effectiveness of a patent system is the extent to which new technology is adopted by industry. In this regard, it is a commonly over-looked feature of the patent system that the failure of patentees to work their inventions in Australia to a sufficient extent to satisfy the reasonable needs of the Australian public is an abuse of patent monopolies and, as such, a justification for depriving such patentees of their exclusive right to a monopoly or, in extreme cases, of their right to any monopoly whatsoever. Unfortunately, however, the questions of whether Australian patents, particularly foreign owned patents, are adequately exploited or whether the provisions for preventing abuse of patent monopolies by insufficient working are satisfactory, are questions on which very little information is available. It is for the purpose of obtaining advice on important practical considerations such as these that I established the Industrial Property Advisory Committee and I would take this opportunity to indicate that a review of the Australian patent system, oriented towards improving its practical effectiveness rather than the mere structure of its legislative framework, is a matter which I will be referring to the Committee for its early consideration. An approach of that kind represents a major departure from the basis of previous revisions and will inject a new dimension into such a review. 
When it is appreciated that the role of the patent system is to assist national development, the real significance of the PCT for Australian industry becomes evident. Moreover, the fulfilment of that role is not limited to assisting the exploitation of new technology; the incentive provided by the potential rewards from such exploitation contributes to the generation of new technology by encouraging the creation of indigenous invention as well as the importation of overseas inventions. The patent system is thus pre-eminently an effective and dynamic mechanism for technology transfer in the full meaning of that rather abused term. 
Unfortunately, the limited sense of values of some of the spokesmen opposing Australian participation in the PCT and the involvement of the Australian Patent Office in its operations are reflected in their evaluation of the Australian patent system on the basis of the concept of patents, individually, as social contracts rather than on the basis of the effect of patents, collectively, as a mechanism for promoting technological change. To treat the patent system as a mere aggregation of individual private rights is to ignore its capability for contributing to national economic development. The value of a patent system in assisting national development is well understood by most developing countries. The participation of a number of such countries in the PCT is based on their recognition of the value of the PCT as a means for introducing and operating an effective patent system where indigenous facilities and expertise to operate independent patent systems are now lacking. 
The appointment of the Australian Patent Office as a Searching and Examining Authority under the PCT creates a unique opportunity to assist developing countries, in particular English speaking countries, by providing the resources and expertise necessary for the adoption of an effective patent system. Such assistance has a particular significance for this country in view of its potential importance in encouraging regional co-operation and development. The capacity for rapid technological development in the Asian region has already been demonstrated by countries such as Japan, Taiwan and Korea. The South East Asian countries are clearly on the threshold of similar development and in the embryonic stage of introducing patent systems. The PCT now provides those countries with a mechanism for adopting effective patent systems as well as offering Australia the opportunity for regional co-operation in the operation of those systems. 
I think that the impact of the PCT on this country and the benefits of participation need no further elaboration. The Treaty has been described by overseas authorities as the most significant development in patent co-operation this century and there is no doubt that it is destined to play a decisive role in the future operation and development of national patent systems. At this early date, the Treaty provides only an optional procedure and its immediate impact will necessarily be restricted by the extent of its usage by applicants and the number of participating countries. However, with our commitment to its aims and our opportunity for benefiting from its operations, it is at this stage that this country should contribute to the implementation of the Treaty. This Bill constitutes the first important step in that process. Accordingly, I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes- I had a technical mission from my Department examine the Precision Tool Annexe in April 1 978. 
The mission reported that the range of activities of the Annexe was hindered by the poor working environment in its existing location in the Invermay railway yards. The mission saw a relocated Annexe, however, as having the following roles: 
provision of a metrology centre, capable of obtaining National Association of Testing Authorities (NATA) registration and thus allowing recalibration of gauges- a facility not at present available in Tasmania; 
b ) a centre for training industry in metrology techniques and for improving standards of accuracy; 
the continuation of a service to industry in the manufacture and repair of precision tools, jigs, dies and gauges, and of replacement parts for industry (including heavy industry such as mining), and in the volume production of specialised precision components; 
a facility for training apprentices in the engineering trades and for training tradesmen in tool-making; and 
an engineering establishment run on a commercial basis which would be capable of providing support to Commonwealth Government Factories if the need arose. 
Technical assistance has been provided to the Precision Tool Annexe by my Department, in connection with the arrangement of machine tools and equipment in the relocated Annexe. This assistance will continue. Advice has also been offered in setting up the metrology section. My Department has initiated a survey of potential markets for Precision Tool Annexe products and services. The cost of the survey will be shared equally by the Tasmanian Government, lt is intended that the survey should indicate areas of endeavour in which it will be most profitable for the Annexe to engage as well as the future viability of the Annexe. 
When the Government announced its 10 point plan for Tasmania in November 1977, the concept of a National Engineering Laboratory was under consideration by my Department. 
However, the concept was succeeded by a Department of Productivity proposal to establish a network for the coordination, development and promotion of technology transfer to Australian manufacturing industry. The technical mission from my Department which visited Tasmania in April 1 978 visited four Tasmanian precision engineering establishments to determine if they could contribute expert knowledge to such a network. The mission considered that the establishments visited could contribute in specialised areas of expertise. 
A technical referral network is being established in the metals industry as a three year pilot program to prove the viability of the concept. The network will include a number of referral centres, which will be linked to organisations having specialised technological expertise. These are intended to assist metal industry enterprises by bridging them to the most appropriate source of technology needed to meet their requirements. The first six referral centres should be operating by October/November this year, with an additional four planned to come on stream early in 1980. Depending on the needs of industry and the evidence of industry's increasing support for the scheme, these centres will be extended to serve other metals industry needs and eventually to provide services for other sectors of industry. 
My Department's Director in Tasmania is investigating the requirement by State industry for the setting up of a technical referral centre in Tasmania, and provided there is sufficient evidence of industry support and that funds are available, such a centre could be established in 1 980. 
The Tasmanian Government has purchased part of a building in Launceston which was previously owned by Kelsall and Kemp, and has transferred Precision Tool Annexe equipment and personnel to that site. 
Under the terms of the Railways (Tasmania) Act 1 975, responsibility for the removal of the plant, equipment and materials from the former site of the Precision Tool Annexe rests with the Tasmanian Government. However, Tasmania sought assistance from the Commonwealth in partly meeting the costs of relocation and more recently for equipment considered essential for the efficient operation of the Annexe and for apprentice training. The Minister for National Development and I agreed that assistance with the reequipment costs was the most appropriate means of assistance. The Commonwealth has offered a loan of$343,000 for ten years at the long term bond rate of interest. The State Government has the Commonwealth offer under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes, in 1974 by the National Materials Handling Bureau (NMHB) which is now in the Department of Productivity. The NMHB report 'Pallets and Containerization in Australia ' shows that only 3.3 per cent of 1 1 .5 million pallets in use in 1 97 1 -72 were 4-way pallets. Recent enquiries indicate that this low percentage has not increased. 
The  Daily Commercial News  report did not state which of the two major sizes of European rectangular 4-way pallets  Mr Willim  recommends, or whether he had a third size in mind. 
Four-way pallets are more efficient in many situations as they can be picked up at every side. However this is rarely an advantage with the common European pallet as, not being square, they must be picked up according to the orientation in which they are deposited. The NMHB report and more recent enquiries show that Australian industry prefers 2-way pallets to 4-way pallets because the former are cheaper and stronger- that is, they have a longer more economical life. However, Australian standards provide for 4-way as well as 2-way pallets. 
Two-way pallets and non-square pallets (such as the common European pallets) sometimes require a pallet rotating stage in semi-automated handling installations. This would not be necessary with a square 4-way pallet; however pallets in Australia are very widely used and the common use of a 4-way pallet would increase costs to all for the benefit of not having to rotate them in the few semi-automated installations. 
In the opposite sense the widespread use of square, cheaper 2-way pallets in Australia is the basis of the world 's largest national pallet pool system which assists rather than hinders greater specialisation of machinery in the fields of storage, handling and transport. (4), (5) and (6) Four-way pallets are already in use but their replacement of the 2-way pallet in the national pool, while possible, is not feasible because the fragile nature of the 4-way pallet would increase the operating costs of the system. Also, in considering the use of the common European non-square pallet there would be an inestimable high cost to industry for new storage and handling equipment to handle new size pallets in production plants and throughout the national distribution systems. 
Changes would not be seriously considered by Australian industry or government establishments because of the high cost of conversion to another system which offers no capital or operational advantages and has some positive disadvantages. As changes would be unlikely to be implemented, the question of redundancy does not arise. 
Australia Post: Employees in Electoral Division of Shortland (Question No.  4206) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Using statistics produced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, my Depanment has derived the following index of Gross (Manufacturing) Product at average 1968-69 prices per person employed, using 1 964-65 as the base year.  1964-65-100.0; 1965-66-99.8; 1966-67-103.1; 1967-68-108.0; 1968-69-114.8; 1969-70-119.7; 1970-71-120.9; 1971-72-124.9; 1972-73-131.6; 1973-74-137.9; 1974-75-140.4 and 1975-76-144.1. 
Statistics for periods since 1 976 have not yet been released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
Army Training Area in New South Wales  (Question No. 4396) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No additional countries have acceded to the European Patent Convention Treaty since the answer to question No. 3237 was provided. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for Administrative Services ' answer to House of Representatives Question No. 4299  (Hansard,  11 September 1979, page 972). 
It was very disappointing to hear the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  say that it has been left to the Opposition to raise this matter. The truth is that the Government has raised the matter many times through me and through other spokesmen. We are, of course, positive in our approach to the problems and in our capacity to resolve the problems, and being positive is not always newsworthy. The honourable member spoke of a conspiracy of confusion, as he called it. One is bound to say that if he his exploiting any aspect of fear, it is the fear of change. Far from our having a conspiracy of confusion, we are endeavouring to point out the nature of the problem and show a positive capacity to deal with it. The honourable member has virtually slandered the members of the Committee of Inquiry into Technological Change in Australia. Each of them is distinguished in his own right. Each is independent and each represents organisations which have a great deal at stake in terms of their independence. We have placed the inquiry deliberately at arms length from me, from my Department and from the Government. There is no question of our having any undue influence of the way in which the inquiry is being conducted. We do not know what conclusions they will reach. We are certainly not in the business of asking for a whitewash. We are in the business of understanding the nature of change and the problems thrown up by it. 
The honourable member did not ask what the alternative is. What is the alternative to facing up to the problems of technological change? What is the alternative to increasing our productivity and improving our technology? Not to improve technology can only be to worsen our competitiveness and worsen our capacity to employ people. If that is the heart of the honourable member's motion, it ought to be of concern to him that we make our industry as competitive as possible. As well as rejuvenating our existing industries by improved technology, we ought then to be looking to the creation of new industries by improved technology and industries which will provide secure and highly skilled employment because of the fact that they are built around Australian innovation for high technology. I agree with him that technology has the potential to deskill and dehumanise jobs but technology also has the potential to meet the aspirations of people. Much technology which has replaced jobs has replaced jobs which people, demonstrably, do not want any more. We certainly are trying, as a government, to encourage Australian innovation in the creation of new jobs of a kind which people do want, which are more secure in terms of world markets and which do represent potential and substantial employment opportunities. 
The Government will provide ample time in this Parliament to debate this question on an informed basis. One reason why we set up the committee of inquiry was to make sure we had some informed debate instead of pandering to the emotions of short-term thinking people. That is the contrast, I submit, with the deliberate emphasis upon fear, the fear of people losing the jobs which they now know. Nowhere in history have people always had the security of knowing that they could do, for all their working life, the one job with the one set of skills without some requirement to have retraining. It is very easy to alarm, it is not so easy to reassure. We have never sought to make glib utterances. We have never sought to conceal the difficulty of the problem. We have never sought to introduce the investment allowance as a means of destroying jobs. We sought to introduce the investment allowance as a means of retaining as many jobs as possible so that our industries could update their technology and be as competitive as possible. 
Reference has been made to word processors, microprocessors and other machinery. This reference, it seems to me- I am disappointed to say it- in the words of the honourable member, is designed to create alarm rather than to say that this is the direction in which we have to go for more meaningful jobs. Every successive generation of stenographer wants a considerable degree of extra responsibility. Some of that responsibility can come by a delegation of authority from management by means of the introduction of new technology. The time which stenographers have available under word processing machinery to do managerial skills which each successive generation of management might find rather boring and tedious is something which should be encouraged, not discouraged. So it is much harder to construct, it is harder to prepare people for change, but we as a government are trying to do that. In trying to do that we are pointing out repeatedly that technology is not a new phenomenon. Society has been introducing new technology and adapting to it for a very long time. Yet the employment situation of the past year or two has revived concern for the effects, especially in respect of employment. 
I again remind the House of the alternative, the worsening employment situation, if we do not in fact increase our technology when our competitors are doing their utmost to increase theirs. There has been in recent times a good deal of public debate in Australia on the subject of technological change. This debate has seen a wide variety of views being expressed. Not wishing to oversimplify the very great diversity of views which have been put forward, it is possible broadly to distinguish between the two views. These are the views broadly represented by the Opposition and the Government- that technological change is something to be promoted because of new opportunities it creates for Australian industry and the view that technology threatens to bring about widespread dislocation in the community because of the reduced number of jobs available. The Opposition has again expressed the negative view and the Government has constantly expressed the positive view. In doing so we are not glibly ignoring the problems associated with change, but we are optimistic about our capacity to grapple with change. 
On the question of employment consequences, whilst it is true that new technology can lead to a loss of jobs at a particular work place it is important to remember that it can also create new employment opportunities in a variety of ways. For example, a reduction in unit costs can result in increased demand for goods and services; therefore for increased output and therefore employment creation. Secondly, through improved competitiveness, industries can increase their share of domestic and international markets. Thirdly, new technology can create new industries in manufacturing and commerce thus creating new employment opportunities both directly and indirectly. There is a chain reaction, often indirectly, which leads to a creation in jobs when the casual observer might see them disappear in one area and not recognise the creation of jobs somewhere else along the line. 
No one pretends that there are not problems inherent in the introduction of new technology. There clearly are. The Government, together with management, recognises this no less than the unions, or the employee, or the operator in a commercial office or in a bank or retail establishment, or the Opposition. But again I repeat, what is the alternative? What are the consequences of not updating our technology? They are clearly worse than the short term repercussions of tackling the challenge and updating our technology. The solution of these problems does not he in delaying technological progress. Feelings of fear, insecurity and pessimism must not be allowed to cloud people's judgment or make them lose sight of the positive and inevitable advantages of technological change. Confronted with a high cost structure and a small domestic market, Australian industry already faces enormous competitive pressures in both domestic and export markets. The cost problems in Australia are enormous and the Opposition has always failed to understand their deep-seated nature. 
Failure to introduce new technology will therefore lead only to a further erosion of competitiveness and a further loss of jobs. Put simply, more jobs are put at risk by failing to introduce new and innovative technology than by grasping the nettle and ensuring that we keep abreast of technological innovation. It is important to remember that postponement of technological change in Australia would undoubtedly lead to a loss of overseas markets to more technically advanced trading partners, a growing inability to compete on the domestic market, a reduction in real terms of wage rates, worsening unemployment, and a general lowering of our living standards. We therefore need to face the challenges of technological change squarely. As a government, we are prepared to do so and we are endeavouring to encourage other people to do so, too. We need to face new technology enthusiastically and imaginatively, realising that it is a long-term generator of higher incomes, more satisfying jobs and a wider range of new skills and professions as not yet fully realised. The Government is facing this challenge squarely, as I have said. 
An important response by government to the challenge has been the establishment of the Department of Productivity which, as the Prime Minister said at the time, is intended to be a technologically oriented agency with the aim of encouraging innovation and exploitation of inventions. A wide variety of programs, of which I have informed the House from time to time, is aimed at stimulating the introduction of new technology in Australian industries and looking at the consequences of the introduction of that technology. We are taking a fresh look at our own industrial research and development capability and effort. We have in the past two years dramatically increased the funds available for industrial research and development. A major allocation of funds in the last two years has led to a much more positive attitude by management towards research and development. An independent survey in June of this year showed that nearly nine out of 10 respondent companies agreed that significant increases in private investment in research and development would become essential over the next five years. This is in sharp contrast to management attitudes prevailing in the previous years as indicated by the results of the Australian Bureau of Statistics survey in February showing a decline of 46 per cent in real private sector research and development between 1973-74 and 1976-77. 
Along with taking a fresh look at our own research and development, we are examining whether traditional mechanisms for the transfer of technology are adequate. We are also examining what barriers exist to the flow of inventions and innovations to Australian industry and commerce. We are doing so because increasingly we need to ensure that the transfer of technology is facilitated from centres, both within and outside Australia, where it is known and understood to enterprises where that technology can be used effectively in the production of goods and services. A number of measures have been introduced recently to facilitate the effective transfer and diffusion of the latest international technological developments. The Opposition asks the Government what it is doing; we are doing a great deal. It might be said that this work should have been commenced in the early 1970s. But we are doing it and we are doing our best to catch up the time-lag. 
The Technology Transfer Council has been established as a joint government-industry body with the objective of developing mechanisms to enable small and medium-sized companies to gain access to the expertise which they require for the application of the latest technological developments in their operations and, therefore, for their capacity to retain and extend employment. A three-year program involving the establishment of a network of technical referral centres has been initiated under the auspices of the Technology Transfer Council. We are concentrating on the metals manufacturing industry to start with. The Information Technology Council has been established in recognition of the importance of information technologies as a potential source of productivity improvement. Programs directed towards the effective utilisation by industry of that Council are currently under development. I stress again that by the use of these new technologies we can increase our capacity to compete on world markets and thus employ more people. We will certainly employ many more people than if these new technologies were not introduced. 
A manufacturing process technology program has also been established to stimulate cooperative projects aimed at the introduction of the latest technologies for manufacturing processing. It is easy for the Opposition to say that jobs are in jeopardy. What is overlooks is that by these mechanisms jobs of the future are being created. We have also spent a lot of time on the question of employee participationlooking at the aspirations of people and the design and adaptation of technology to meet those aspirations. My colleague, the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and I have told honourable members ad nauseam of the time we have spent on developing training programs. They are not perfect but they are being continually evaluated and upgraded. We are expending funds on training and retraining programs because of their importance in the adaptation to technological change. We are tackling most aggressively the problem to which this motion is directed. I am surprised and disappointed that again the Opposition, instead of joining enthusiastically with us, is not recognising the long term nature of what we are doing, namely, improving our capacity to create jobs which are satisfying and secure. Instead, the Opposition is emphasising the short-term fears which people have. We have never disguised the difficulties from a human point of view. We are trying to minimise those fears on a collective basis and maximise the benefits of technological change for the whole community. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) As at 30 September 1979 thiny-one Nomad aircraft have been sold in Australia and57 have been sold to overseas operators. In addition to these sales, Government Aircraft Factories expect to receive orders shortly in respect of 16 aircraft for which indications of firm intent to purchase have been received. 
Nomad aircraft are being used in Australia on scheduled passenger services as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is true that the Nomad aircraft has the advantage of using AVTUR fuel and not AVGAS as used by most light aircraft. 
The following table sets out a comparison of both passenger versions of the twin turbo-prop Nomad aircraft with a comparable twin turbo-prop aircraft and with light twin piston engined aircraft for a typical 200 nautical mile flight: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Information on firms involved in the marketing and manufacture of heat pumps is included in the business reference Kompass, published by Peter Isaacson Publications Pty Ltd, industrial group number 40-40. Further details may be obtained from the Australian Institute of Refrigerating Air Conditioning and Heating, 191 Royal Parade, Parkville, Victoria. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, a decision has been made for an initial transfer of IS positions of the Division; and in-principle approval has been given to the transfer of the remainder of the policy personnel and essential policy personnel support staff of the Division, subject to a further report from the Interdepartmental Committee on Location of Australian Government Employment (LAGE Committee). 
I am informed by my Depanment that there has been an assessment of the financial costs involved in the relocation of the Working Environment Division. The non-recurring cost for each officer transferring would be approximately $8,000. The additional total annual recurring cost is estimated at $25,000. There are estimated consequential annual savings of $42,000 which would arise from the relocation of departmental officers moving from rented accommodation in Melbourne to Commonwealth owned premises in Melbourne. As regards the costs in staff, it is impossible to accurately assess the number of staff who will decline to move to Canberra. Experience has shown that decisions by individual officers are not firmly made until they are notified that their positions are to be transferred. 
I am aware of the staff proposal to establish a joint working party but advise that both oral and written submissions on behalf of the staff were put to the LAGE Committee by the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations. In addition there have been discussions with officers of the Working Environment Division on the proposal. My Depanment informs me it considered that a joint working party would be unlikely to produce any views or approaches to the transfer different from those already well known to the Depanment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am informed by my Department that Messrs Duke and Coyle were instructed to examine duties and functions of officers of the Working Environment Division (WED) with a view to examining positions for transfer to Canberra. This study was one of a number of studies and consultations made in respect of a proposal to relocate WED. 
No report as such was requested or produced but notes for discussion with senior management were prepared. 
The notes prepared by Messrs Duke and Coyle represent only a minor portion of material prepared within the Depanment in the examination, review and consultation process leading to a departmental recommendation on the WED transfer. For this reason it would not be a responsible action on my part to make these notes available. The grounds for my Department favouring the transfer of WED were explained at some length by senior officers to CAGEO officers and WED staff. 
The decision to transfer WED positions to Canberra was one for Government. 
Fishing Agreement with Taiwan (Question No. 4687) 
I would like to congratulate the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  for having done his homework thoroughly, as he always does on these matters. He is one of the few members of the House who takes a deep interest in the patent reforms which have gone on in the past year or so. I am indebted to him for the remarks he made. Likewise, I would like to compliment the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who again has been constructive, as he always is in these debates. The Government has endeavoured to make this as bipartisan a subject as it can because it ought to be. It is technical but it has enormous ramifications for the benefit of our industries. 
The honourable member for Adelaide raised two points. I would like to assure him that each of the points which he has raised will be examined in the course of the inquiry into the patent system which I mentioned in my second reading speech and which I will formally announce, together with the terms of reference, next Thursday. I have discussed the terms of reference with the Industrial Property Advisory Committee and the reason for announcing them next Thursday is that there will be in Canberra a conference attended by the heads of patent offices from all Pacific nations and member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations. If the honourable member for Adelaide has not been invited because he was overseas, I will make sure that is rectified. I am sure he would find it a worthwhile conference to attend, at least during the parts of that day when Parliament is not sitting. 
I assure him that in the light of his contribution today I will look again at the terms of reference and if I do not believe they cover the areas about which he has genuine misgivings then I will make sure that they are rectified. My recollection of them is that they are broad enough to encompass those parts of his amendment which are based on valid concerns. I say that because I believe some of the honourable member's comments were based on a misunderstanding of some of the concepts underlying the patent system, at least as it is currently administered. There is no denying the fact that in the past there were occasions when patents were taken out and sat upon, and inventions were not fully exploited. I think the honourable member for Adelaide was referring to those. However, there are mandatory provisions in our system and in those of most industrialised countries now which oblige people to exploit the patent. Indeed, the essence of the Australian patent system is that inventions must be exploited in Australia regardless of their origin. That is the error which the honourable member has made; he misunderstood a point made in my second reading speech. 
For the purpose of our patent system, the origin of the invention is irrelevant; what is relevant is that it is exploited in Australia for the benefit of Australia. We cannot invent everything and we cannot re-invent everything. We have to apply as quickly as we can to Australian industry the kind of technology which is available overseas, hence the reference by the honourable member for Herbert to the other amendments that the Government has made to the Patents Act in the last couple of years. In other words, we have to exploit it in Australia. The reference to developing countries is another point that I should correct because, notwithstanding the views that have been expressed by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, most developing countries have joined or are joining the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property. That is the principal international treaty on patents. The Paris Convention is to be examined for revision at a diplomatic conference in Geneva in 1980. The principal proposals which will then be considered are those which are being submitted by developing countries. 
In conclusion there are 350,000 new inventions in the world which are patentable each year. I think I am correct in saying that only Japan has a larger number of local inventions than foreign seeking registration under the patent system. Inevitably, foreign inventions will out-number local inventions in most countries and we have to make use of those as well as developing our own industrial research and development capabilities. I have said a lot elsewhere about this subject but in the interests of time I will confine my comments and leave that matter for the present. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Present statistical collections are based primarily on reports submitted under State Workers' Compensation Legislation. Since that legislation differs between the States, so the reports differ, and hence there is no nationally uniform base from which nationally uniform statistics can be derived. Nationally uniform reports will require changes in State Legislation. 
The Australian Bureau of Statistics which is responsible for the Commonwealth's statistics has been working with State Statistical Offices to achieve as much uniformity in reporting as is possible within the present reporting arrangements, but from the above it will be clear that national uniformity cannot be expected in the near future. (3), (4) and (5) No agreed basis exists for estimating the total national cost of industrial accidents and occupational health problems, although one figure that is a significant element of the cost and is reliably estimated is employers' liability insurance premiums. The most recent year for which that figure is available on a national basis is 1976-77 when it was $926m. 
For the reasons discussed under ( 1 ) and (2 ) above, firmly based national statistics on the number of  working  man-days lost due to industrial injuries are not available, and the best estimates, based on aggregated non-uniform State figures, take some dme to make. The latest figure is for the year 1973-74 and is based on compensation insurance claims finalised in that year; that figure is 1,010,000 working manweeks (approximate). 
The following table sets out the latest available information. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for National Development's answer to House of Representatives Question No. 4328  (Hansard,  6 November 1979). 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Patent, Trade Marks and Designs Office 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable members. I present the first annual report of InterScan Australia Pty Ltd for the year 1978-79. I seek leave to make a short statement in relation to this report. 
Leave granted. 
-The Government decided in 1978 that the development of the experimental InterScan system into commercially competitive hardware should be undertaken by InterScan Australia Pty Ltd. The report covers the first year of operation of InterScan Australia Pty Ltd. The company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Australian Industry Development Corporation, was formed under the chairmanship of  Sir Ian  McLennan to manage the enginering development and undertake the commercial arrangements for the InterScan system. InterScan is a major high-technology innovation developed by the Australian Department of Transport and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The International Civil Aviation Organisation has endorsed the principles underlying InterScan as the basis of future airport landing guidance systems. The considerable industrial potential of InterScan was recognised by the Government and funds totalling $8.2m over 3 years were provided to enable Australian industry to translate the experimental system into commercially competitive hardware. 
The report records the completion of agreements and the placing of contracts with two Australian companies, Amalgamated Wireless (Australasia) Ltd and Hawker de Havilland Aust. Pty Ltd covering the completion of engineering development, manufacture and marketing of the InterScan system. Under these agreements the Australian companies will take up equity in InterScan Australia Pty Ltd as the development and manufacturing program proceeds. It also records a joint venture agreement with the United States company Wilcox Electric Inc. Wilcox, an established American company in the development, manufacture and marketing of aircraft landing systems, will contribute to the development and will be a significant factor in marketing on the American continent. The participation of AWA and Hawker de Havilland will contribute very substantially to Australia's realising the long term benefits of increased export earnings and increased employment. The involvement of Wilcox, one of the world 's leading suppliers of aircraft instrument landing systems, is an important step in securing for Australian industry a significant share of the very large world market for microwave landing systems. The company has considerable experience in development and production of high technology equipment for landing aids and in marketing that equipment to civil aviation authorities. 
The formation of InterScan Australia Pty Ltd and the subsequent participation by the other companies is an important initiative. It should encourage the development of governmentindustry co-operation towards high technology products based on local creative initiatives with high export potential. I am sure that all honourable members will be encouraged by the progress made to date by InterScan Australia Pty Ltd. I expect also that most members will wish to associate themselves with me when I extend congratulations to the Board and the executive officers of the company. I have no doubt that all Australians wish them well in their endeavours on our behalf. There are still many obstacles to be overcome if they are to gain for Australia a substantial share of the world market over the next decade. The Government is very pleased with the progress recorded in this first annual report and believes that this success should provide an inspiration to other inventors and entrepreneurs to chance their arm to create the new, high technology, export oriented, innovative industries which the Government, largely through the efforts of my Department, is striving hard to encourage. 
The Government is not prepared to accept the amendment as such, but I would like to say something about it. It has been said by a number of people in this Parliament that there is virtue in having more debate on tariff issues, and with that I concur. I certainly will draw the sentiments contained in the amendment and comments of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  to the attention of the Leader of the House  (Mr Viner).  One of the occasions when the House can discuss tariffs is during debate on this Bill at the end of each session and on the Bill which has just been dealt with. Whilst I was not able to hear all of the debate, I did hear the comments of a number of honourable members. 
I am bound to say, though it grieves me, that the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  was misinformed in a number of his understandings about decisions made by the Government from time to time concerning tariffs. Indeed, most of the Industries Assistance Commission reports dealt with by the legislation to which he was addressing himself have resulted in tariff reductions in line with recommendations of the IAC. I will ensure that the views of the honourable member for Adelaide are taken notice of, not only by the Leader of the House but also by the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  who regrettably is in Darwin today. I am sure that the Government will take notice of the honourable member's views. But in my view, it will not always be appropriate for a precise debate to take place on each tariff adjustment. But there certainly is normally and should always be an opportunity for a discussion on general tariff policies when honourable members can then raise any decision of the Government pursuant to any IAC recommendation which they wish. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I wish to add to my earlier assurance. I assure the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  that I will bring his subsequent comments to the attention of the Leader of the House  (Mr Viner)  and also to the attention of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I am bound to say that it is a cause of concern to the Government that sometimes the legislative program seems to have become congested, sometimes with interruptions by matters that are of concern to Parliament and sometimes by trivial matters, and that sometimes matters of substance such as this are not given the adequate attention which they ought to receive in debate. I will certainly pass on the comments of the honourable member for Adelaide. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the validation until 30 June 1980 of duties collected in pursuance of Customs Tariffproposals Nos 3 1 to 35 introduced into the Parliament at various times since 25 October 1979 and not covered by Customs Tariff Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1979 which was introduced into the House during this sitting. Under section 226 of the Customs Act the collection of duties in pursuance of Customs Tariff Proposals is protected against legal challenge for six months or until the close of the session of Parliament, whichever occurs first. The introduction and passage of a validation Bill is therefore a necessary machinery measure which takes over from section 226 pending the introduction of a Customs Tariff Amendment Bill to enact formally the changes contained in the Proposals. 
The tariff changes validated by the Bill relate to: 
Decisions of the Government resulting from Industries Assistance Commission reports on- 
Furniture- Proposals No. 31; 
Grapes and Wine; Spirits and Spirituous Beverages, etc.- Proposals No. 34; 
Administrative changes only. No change in duties is involved- Proposals Nos 32 and 33; 
Changes to certain developing country duty rates following a limited review of the Australian system of tariff preferences for developing countries- Proposals No. 35. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to validate all duties of excise demanded or collected on or before 30 
June 1980 in respect of stabilised crude petroleum oil, saccharin and cyclamates and grape brandies pursuant to Excise Tariff Proposals Nos. 5, 6 and 7 which were moved in the House on 21 August 1979 and 8 November 1979 respectively. The increase in the excise duty on stabilized crude petroleum oil from $70.98 to $102.27 per kilolitre with effect from 1 July 1979 followed determination by my colleague, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  of new import parity prices in accordance with the Government's decision that all crude oil be priced to refineries at import parity levels. 
Abolition of duties of excise on saccharin and cyclamates has been made as a result of the Government's decision to adopt the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission contained in its report No. 2 12 of 4 May 1979 on chemical products (part A). Duties of excise payable on grape brandies have been reduced by $2.75 per litre of alcohol as a result of the Government's decision to enhance the competitive position of this product following consideration of the recommendations made by the Industries Assistance Commission in its reports on grapes and wine and spirits, spiritous beverages, et cetera. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Uren)  adjourned. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Productivity 1978-79. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) As a result of an accident in Indonesian territory involving a privately-owned Indonesian-registered Nomad aircraft, two officers from the Department of Productivity and two from the Department of Transport accepted an invitation to visit the crash site. Under international agreement the issue of a report rests with the Indonesian authorities. 
Twelve Nomad Searchmaster aircraft have been supplied to Indonesia as part of an integrated Defence Cooperation program to assist the Indonesian Government's ability to deal with smuggling, illegal entry, protection of fisheries and search and rescue within its archipelago waters. 
There has been one accident involving Nomad aircraft provided under the Defence Co-operation program. On 28 June 1979 an aircraft crashed on a training flight during a simulated one engine landing approach. The aircraft was severely damaged; however there was no loss of life. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) The following countries are understood to have passed legislation which requires consultation between industry /employers and employee/employer organisations: 
